

The NBA rookie ladder puts long-term potential aside to determine the best players right now. These rankings are ultimately standings that reflect the Rookie of the Year race.
Markelle Fultz would still go No. 1 in a redraft, but others from his class outperformed him during summer league.
Those who didn't play, specifically Ben Simmons, Frank Ntilikina and Malik Monk, were not deemed eligible.
The rankings took into account production, efficiency, defense and overall impact.

Jonathan Isaac (Orlando Magic, SF/PF)
Isaac would have likely finished top 10 if he didn't hurt his hip in his third game. He went for 15 points and 13 rebounds against the Heat, flashing his unique perimeter skills and defensive versatility. He is a good bet to climb the ladder, assuming he's given a shot to play through mistakes for the weak Orlando Magic.
           
Caleb Swanigan (Portland Trail Blazers, PF/C)
A double-double machine at Purdue, Swanigan averaged one in summer league. At the least, his rebounding and low-post offense should carry over to the regular season.
           
Jordan Bell (Golden State Warriors, PF/C)
Bell created buzz with his 11-rebound, five-assist, five-steal, six-block game against the Minnesota Timberwolves. He won't score much this season, but that's not what the Golden State Warriors will ask of him. Bell could give them a defensive specialist and energizer to make reaction plays off the ball.
              
Justin Jackson (Sacramento Kings, SF)
Jackson totaled 54 points between his last two games and gave fans a glimpse of his scoring improvisation and shooting. Like Klay Thompson, he doesn't need many dribbles to put up points.
             
Dwayne Bacon (Charlotte Hornets, SG/SF)
Bacon finished summer league with 29 points against the Orlando Magic. He made an interesting case as a scoring specialist for his ability to create and make shots from all three levels.

Stats (four games): 11.8 points, 3.0 assists, 2.2 steals, 44.4 percent FG, 12.5 percent 3PT
An ankle twist cut De'Aaron Fox's summer league short, but the Sacramento Kings should have seen enough to feel good about their No. 5 overall pick.
Fox's strengths and weaknesses were both evident, with his speed and explosiveness showing on fast breaks and drives, and his jumper missing on 7-of-8 three-point attempts.
Still, flashes of mid-range scoring and shooting were encouraging. And the defensive quickness and playmaking we saw at Kentucky carried over into Las Vegas, where he racked up five steals against the Phoenix Suns and three against the Memphis Grizzlies.
The question moving forward concerns Fox's role following the addition of George Hill, who'll take pressure off the 19-year-old point guard but will likely limit his chances of rising into the rookie ladder's top five.

Stats (five games): 17.4 points, 9.2 rebounds, 42.5 percent FG, 18.8 percent 3PT
After shooting 12-of-35 through two games, Josh Jackson rebounded to shoot 48.8 percent over his final three, looking more confident with his dribble and shot-making. 
He finished summer league averaging 17.4 points, which he generated mostly by attacking off drives and transition, where his athleticism takes over. Jackson also showed he can create off ball screens and separate into pull-up, step-back and fallaway jumpers, though it could take years to become a consistent perimeter scorer.
Jackson shot 3-of-16 from behind the arc and isn't always smooth with his shot-creating or shooting. He'll earn minutes right away in Phoenix for his defensive energy and the versatility to guard multiple positions. And he'll give the Suns an additional offensive weapon to put pressure on the rim. 

Stats (five games): 17.2 points, 2.4 assists, 46.5 percent FG, 47.8 percent 3PT
Luke Kennard only played in the Orlando league, but he was nonetheless impressive, looking just as comfortable scoring as he did at Duke.
He saved his best for last with a 24-point game against the Dallas Mavericks, making 9-of-15 shots and all three of his triples.
Throughout the week, Kennard showcased his crafty offensive skills with tight ball-handling, passing, footwork and difficult shot-making ability. He also canned 47.8 percent of his 23 three-point attempts, drawing attention to his pure stroke and quick release.
Proving he can play adequate defense against NBA wings will be the key to earning consistent rookie minutes, but Kennard looks ready to come off the bench, knock down jumpers and move the ball.

Stats (six games): 20.5 points, 5.8 rebounds, 3.0 assists, 48.4 percent FG, 45 percent 3PT
Kyle Kuzma may have earned himself regular-season minutes by emerging as one of the summer league's top performers.
The momentum he built up at the NBA combine carried over to Las Vegas. Kuzma, who only hit 27 threes (career high) as a junior at Utah, hit 18 through six games for the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Along with a surprising shooting stroke, Kuzma consistently flashed his versatility off transition finishes, post buckets, face-up moves and passes. 
His 7.4 rebounds per 40 minutes were strangely low, but otherwise, Kuzma's offense was as impressive as any big man's in July. He could be the stretch 4 the Lakers have been missing since the start of their rebuild.
Stats (five games): 15.4 points, 9.2 rebounds, 59.3 percent FG
The nation's leader in player efficiency rating at Wake Forest, John Collins finished second among all summer-league participants with a monster 32.5 PER.
Playing just 23.1 minutes per game in Las Vegas, he averaged 15.4 points and 9.2 rebounds on 59.3 percent shooting. Collins had a number of show-stealing dunks that highlighted his Amar'e Stoudemire-like finishing mix of power, explosiveness and coordination.
His athleticism and motor consistently showed around the basket. He also looked confident with his jumper, having knocked down shots around the foul line and even a three after taking just one in two years at Wake Forest.
With plenty of minutes to go around in Atlanta, Collins jumps out as a solid bet to outproduce his draft position as a rookie.

Stats (five games): 20.4 points, 2.6 assists, 4.4 steals, 39.6 percent FG, 31.4 percent 3PT
One of summer league's breakout stars, Donovan Mitchell climbed the rookie ladder with explosive offense and defensive playmaking.
His 37-point outburst against the Memphis Grizzlies was an eye-opener. Athletic, strong and shifty, he demonstrated high-level shot-creating skills with an advanced handle, both as a driver and step-back shooter.
Though erratic from behind the arc, he still sunk three triples in three different games, leaving little question about his shot-making ability.
It was ultimately the 4.4 steals per game that helped him leapfrog Josh Jackson and De'Aaron Fox on the board. Mitchell applied pressure and forced turnovers with his signature aggression and competitiveness. 

Stats (three games): 16.0 points, 2.3 assists, 40.9 percent FG, 37.5 percent 3PT
Markelle Fultz gave Philadelphia 76ers fans a taste of his smooth, effortless scoring before suffering a summer league-ending ankle injury in his third game.
He flashed the handles and footwork behind his advanced shot-creation highlighted by step-backs, pull-ups and fallaways. We saw his razor-sharp skill level on soft floaters and off-hand finishes, as well as his shooting range with six combined threes against the Utah Jazz and Boston Celtics. 
Fultz went for 17 points in the opener and followed with 23 points and five assists.
He took too many tough shots, resulting in a disappointing field-goal percentage. But the sample size of action was too small to nitpick. Fultz appears on track toward becoming the Sixers' next cornerstone and All-Star guard.

Stats (six games): 18.2 points, 8.8 rebounds, 44.6 percent FG, 33.3 percent 3PT
Jayson Tatum looked as ready for the regular season as any rookie in summer league.
It wasn't just the consistent production, though he did finish in double figures every game and hit the 20-point mark in three of them. Tatum's skills and polish stood out most. He put on a shot-creating and shot-making clinic and established himself as a go-to isolation option. 
Tatum hit off-balance, contested jumpers throughout his time in Orlando and Las Vegas. He also converted a number of tough finishes off drives that showcased his handle and body control. 
He only totaled nine assists in 194 minutes, and given the Boston Celtics' loaded roster and limited available minutes, he'll likely slip down the ladder once the regular season starts. But Tatum's scoring ability is ahead of every other rookie forward's.

Stats (six games): 17.3 points, 4.2 assists, 2.2 steals, 45.7 percent FG, 34.6 percent 3PT
The uptempo summer-league setting appeared better suited for Dennis Smith Jr., who was up and down at North Carolina State without ideal spacing or support.
He looked comfortable in Las Vegas, getting to any spot he wanted by changing speeds and direction.
His explosiveness showed on exciting finishes at the rim, both above and below it. Smith was also proficient around the perimeter with his off-the-dribble shooting. Once his confidence started pumping, he showed he can make jumper after jumper and score in bunches.
We didn't see many signs of hero ball or over-dribbling, and if there was a takeaway about his playmaking, it was that Smith seemed more than willing to pass and prioritize his teammates.
Expected to run the show in Dallas right away, Smith has emerged as a dark-horse Rookie of the Year pick.

Stats (six games): 16.3 points, 9.3 assists, 38.2 percent FG, 23.8 percent 3PT
Lonzo Ball's signature floor game and vision were on display throughout the Los Angeles Lakers' run in Las Vegas.
He consistently got teammates quality looks in transition with deep, on-the-money assists, a number of which traveled the length of the floor. His unselfishness was contagious and inspired others to move the ball and make the extra pass.
The highlight of Ball's summer league came against Philadelphia 76ers, when he carried the Lakers back and led them to a win with 36 points. He also triple-doubled twice and still managed to average 16.3 points despite converting just 10-of-42 three-point attempts.
He may not score as much as Dennis Smith Jr. or Markelle Fultz, but all signs point to Ball's leadership and basketball IQ immediately enhancing L.A.'s offense and shot selection.

LeBron may not be long for The Land. According to various reports, James is frustrated with how the Cleveland Cavaliers have handled the offseason. James apparently expected the Cavs to be aggressive and acquire players who would help his team overcome the Golden State Warriors, their foe in an NBA Finals rivalry that looks destined to repeat for a fourth straight summer. Instead, Cleveland owner Dan Gilbert tore apart his team’s front office and presumably began penning his next Comic Sans communique.
When James left for Miami in 2010, Cleveland fans took to the streets and burned his jersey in effigy. When he returned to Cleveland in 2014, many of those same fans rejoiced. When he ended the city’s pitiful 52-year pro sports championship drought in 2016, they all celebrated.
To some Cavaliers fans, James has fulfilled his duty and can leave again as a free agent next summer. But, of course, some people just want to watch the jerseys burn. Below, we assess (on a scale from one to five Burning James Jerseys) how angry Cavs fans would be based on possible new courts for the King.

The Process has left Philadelphia with two important potential factors in luring LeBron: Ben Simmons and a ton of cap space in 2018. James and Simmons have a photographically proven friendship, and they're both represented by Klutch Sports. Moving to Philadelphia could give James the opportunity to take Simmons under his wing and declare a future megastar his protege.
But more importantly, the 76ers again opted to build through the draft this offseason and declined to sign any large multiyear contracts for free agents. They will have plenty of money to throw at James next summer, and the rumor mill is already running rampant.
The only thing unclear in this hypothetical world is how Sam Hinkie truthers would be able to credit their savior for signing LeBron two years after being fired, but smart money says they’d find a way.

There is a spirited competition among NBA franchises for the title of "most dysfunctional," but Cleveland and New York are among the front-runners. If the root of James’ discontent is truly Cleveland’s lackluster offseason, then it would be beyond bizarre for Cavs fans to watch him depart for James Dolan’s franchise. It's also unclear if the current Knicks front office has carried over the same "no posse" rules from Phil Jackson's tenure.
If Carmelo Anthony is already on another team (like, say, the Houston Rockets) by that time, the move makes even less sense. Then again, nothing in Knickland ever makes sense. Sure, Cavs fans would burn LeBron’s jerseys if he went to New York, but not out of hatred; it would be out of a resigned realization that life is random and meaningless.

One thing left unsaid so far is that it would clearly be worse for Cavs fans to watch James leave for another team in the East than the West (with one notable exception). And although divisions don’t really matter in the NBA, it would be weird for James to move to another Central team.
It would be especially painful for longtime Cleveland fans to see him in Chicago, which, with the help of a guy named Michael Jordan, eliminated the Cavs from the playoffs four times from 1988 to 1993.
Going to Jordan’s city would possibly reunite James and Dwyane Wade (who is an unrestricted free agent next summer but would presumably stay to play with his close friend), but it would also be an unbelievably bold move for James. The King has struggled to escape the shadow of His Airness, and here he would have to change his jersey number—the Bulls have already retired Jordan's No. 23. Would guiding the Bulls to an NBA title for the first time since Jordan help James' legacy?

Can you imagine James announcing on television that he is taking his talents back to Miami? Sitting in the same director’s chair, in that same button-up shirt, using the Heat to burn Cleveland once again? The internet would break.
It would also cause Cavaliers fans some serious PTDSD (post-The Decision stress disorder). Wade is an unrestricted free agent in 2018, and the two could decide to go back to where they won a pair of championships together.
It seems unlikely they would return given the erosion in their relationships with Heat boss Pat Riley, but maybe he could convince them—and a third star—to revisit the good vibes of South Beach. Of course, only one other move on this list would be as detrimental to LeBron’s legacy, so it seems highly unlikely right now.

The Adrian Wojnarowski report that initially ignited these James rumors specifically cited the Lakers as one of the superstar’s desired destinations. And through some creative—nay, Magic—maneuvering during this year’s NBA draft, the Lakers have plenty of cap room to bring in a superstar like LeBron James or Paul George.
James already has a home in Los Angeles, and he appears to be interested in Hollywood as a post-basketball career path. This earns extra burning jerseys because it seems like the most realistic landing spot for LeBron, and he would probably be able to do something in L.A. that he hasn’t been able to do in Cleveland—attract other big-name free agents.

LeBron James joining the Celtics seems like way more than just a long shot.
First of all, there's no way James—who has gone to great lengths to preserve his hairline—would want to be compared to Gordon Hayward's salon-quality 'do on a nightly basis.
More importantly, leaving Cleveland for Boston would be at least as bad as—if not worse than—leaving for Miami in 2010. James would immediately make the Cavs’ main Eastern Conference rival a championship contender.
Seeing what the brilliant basketball mind of Brad Stevens would do with the greatest player in the universe would be fun to watch, but does the world really need more Boston sports titles? Regardless, this hypothetical move gets four burning jerseys because it would lead to the most righteous outrage among Cavaliers fans—with one exception...

Forget the logistics for now and just for a moment imagine James joining the Warriors.
Among the many ramifications, the entire NBA season—not just the regular season, but also the playoffs and even the Finals—would be meaningless.
There’d be no reason to watch other than to see how many points the Warriors were crushing their opponents by each night. The columns written in print and online and the arguments shouted on television would make the "Kevin Durant is a sellout" takes look like polite discourse by comparison.
And then add the logistical element: Essentially, the only way for the Warriors to sign James would be for him to agree to play for the veteran’s minimum. Imagine watching your hometown hero leave for your fiercest rival and then dominate the NBA for years to come. 
There would be no LeBron James Cavaliers jerseys left in the world.

O.J. Simpson is in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, the College Football Hall of Fame and the Greater Buffalo Sports Hall of Fame. He's one of seven NFL players to break 2,000 rushing yards in a season and was the first to reach that milestone (in 1973). That year, he averaged 143.1 rushing yards per game, the highest single-season average in NFL history.
But when you visit the Buffalo Bills online shop, you can't buy an O.J. Simpson jersey despite the fact he achieved these feats while playing for the Bills—who drafted him No. 1 overall and with whom he spent nine of his 11 pro seasons.
Simpson, who was acquitted of double murder in the 1994 killings of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, is now up for parole nine years into a 33-year sentence for a Las Vegas-area robbery and kidnapping. Simpson's fame outside of football, and more importantly his exhaustively documented murder trial, mean that for most people born after he stopped playing in 1979, his record-setting career is reduced to "retired football player" (and the way the Kardashians first got famous).

In Buffalo, though, shades of Simpson's stardom remain. "He's forever tied to this city," says Paul Peck, who's been a sportscaster in Buffalo for almost 30 years, including 24 as the Bills reporter for the city's WIVB-TV. "The team didn't have a huge amount of success, and then suddenly the biggest star in the NFL and, you could argue, in all of sports was a Buffalo Bills player—he put us on the map."
When Simpson was arrested in 1994, it had been 17 years since he'd left Buffalo, but the coverage still felt personal. "He was certainly one of the icons of Buffalo sports history, but all that's been tarnished based on what's happened since," says Chuck Frawley, the treasurer of the Greater Buffalo Sports Hall of Fame.
"The association with O.J. started to feel like a black mark on the city—people were angry," Peck adds regarding the reaction to Simpson's murder trial. "When someone makes a comment about the team, people perceive that as a comment about Buffalo. It shouldn't be that way, but it is."

A reminder of how fraught the O.J.-Buffalo relationship became arrived via the most unlikely of means—Bills second-round draft pick Zay Jones wore a shirt on draft night that riffed on Simpson's infamous 1994 police chase (the shirt has since sold out), and, unsurprisingly, the image of him getting a call from the Bills went viral.
"I actually just found it in a local store here. I thought it was pretty cool." Jones told The John Murphy Show a few days after the draft. "It was probably not the best thing to do. ... In no way was I trying to mock or to mimic that event. ... People attacked me for it, but that's OK."
"It got a lot of play here," Peck says of Jones' draft night attire. "People were like, 'What the hell was he wearing that for? What's he trying to say?'"
For his part, Jones told Murphy that he had no indication he would be draft by Buffalo.
The question of how exactly to approach Simpson's legacy on an institutional level still comes up in Buffalo.
"From time to time, people will ask, 'Have you thought about taking him out?' and, to be honest, it is something we've talked about," Frawley said of Simpson's place in the Greater Buffalo Sports Hall of Fame.
Simpson was in the organization's inaugural class in 1991.

"We're not going to take him out, but we do tend to downplay the fact that he's in our Hall of Fame," Frawley says. "Would we take [his criminal record] into consideration if he were somebody that were up for induction now? Probably, but he wasn't convicted...it's a tough call."
"Should he still be on the Wall of Fame at the Bills stadium?" Peck adds. "That's been a topic of discussion—'He embarrassed our city; his name should come off.' It never did, and I think that's fair. He's on there for what he accomplished as a football player."
Instead, the team functionally ignores Simpson's history in Buffalo except when absolutely necessary in citing team statistics.
"If they want to talk about Bills history, it usually starts with the Super Bowl run (1990 to 1993) and the fact that there are six or seven Hall of Famers from those teams," Peck says. "It's very easy to spin the narrative a little bit away from O.J., to sort of brush it under the rug."

"It's not something that they highlight in games or when talking about their past," says Frawley, a season ticket holder. "That's why it was interesting to see some of those highlights from the 30 for 30.
"I hadn't seen much of him running the ball in a very long time."
A photo posted by stephennash (@stephennash)
Steve Nash and his wife, volleyball player Lilla Frederick, shared the news of their first son together on Tuesday.
His name? Luca Sun Nash.
The former point guard, of course, spent 10 years playing for the Phoenix Suns, highlighted by back-to-back MVP awards in 2005 and 2006. It's unclear if that's the source of his middle name.
Here's another picture of the little guy:
A photo posted by Lilla Nash (@lillanash)
[h/t For The Win]
#FireGarPax Billboard is up! s://t.co/KjLIrZlnBD
Chicago Bulls fans don't waste much time.
After the team dealt Jimmy Butler to the Minnesota Timberwolves, the Bulls subreddit users decided to protest the front office with a billboard.
Less than a month ago, user bshendy wrote the post that got this thing rolling (warning: link contains NSFW language). They created a GoFundMe page that allowed users to donate money toward a message against executives John Paxson and Gar Forman (aka GarPax) in Chicago.
The page lists $8,327 in donations, and the billboard went up on Wednesday.
It uses the hashtag #FireGarPax and notes that Bulls fans are "no longer seeing red." It also points out that the message was made possible by Bulls fans worldwide.

Rookie the Bat Dog doesn't grab the bat, still does something awesome. s://t.co/UIJt236O2C
Rookie, the bat dog for the New York Yankees Double-A affiliate, had a rookie moment on Tuesday.
The golden retriever, whose father and grandfather were also Trenton Thunder bat dogs, went after a ball the umpire threw to the pitcher in between innings.
Thankfully, the pitcher didn’t seem to mind. Per the Thunder’s website, Rookie started in 2013 and is still "perfecting his craft" with his dad, Derby.
[h/t SB Nation]

Ben Simmons took a page out of Joel Embiid’s book on Tuesday.
Out of nowhere, the Philadelphia 76ers rookie guard tweeted the notorious eyes emoji at LeBron James’ Twitter account as speculation mounts that he could leave the Cleveland Cavaliers next summer.
@KingJames 👀
Embiid has tried—and failed—to lure the King to Philly for years:
WATCH THE THRONE. THE LION KING  is coming!!!!  @KingJames #EMB11D #TogetherWeBuild
I hope i'm not gonna get fined already with those Lebron's tweets is it legal to recruit over twitter @NBA ?
We Almost got Lebron 2 years ago
Simmons and LBJ seem to be friends and also share an agent, Rich Paul, so he might at least get a response.
Could Lebron be passing the torch to Ben Simmons? s://t.co/NRCU1gFv2S

It looks like Bryce Harper and Mike Trout are tired of hearing about Aaron Judge.
In the first inning of their head-to-head matchup Tuesday night, the perennial MVP candidates traded solo home runs, bringing them to 24 and 17 dingers, respectively, on the season.
Harper got things started with a blast to center field, and Trout refused to be outdone.
“Got you, @Bharper3407.” - @MikeTrout, definitely. s://t.co/49UgmGYXXD
The Washington Nationals and Los Angeles Angels were tied at 1-1 going into the second inning.

A photo posted by Paweł Poljański (@p.poljanski)
The Tour de France is a tad difficult on the body. 
On Tuesday, 27-year-old Polish cyclist Pawel Poljanski showed off what his legs look like after 16 stages of the famous cycling event.
Hint: Ridiculously vascular.
As Business Insider's Daniel McMahon noted, that's about 68 hours of pedaling before things wrap up in Paris on Sunday. Here's what Poljanski's legs looked like earlier in the month:
A photo posted by Paweł Poljański (@p.poljanski)
[Instagram]
Julius Randle is no longer a teammate with Nick Young, as Swaggy P joined the reigning champion Golden State Warriors this summer.
Last weekend, though, the Los Angeles Lakers big man took the floor alongside Young at the Drew League in Los Angeles.
Together, they defeated the Baron Davis-led New Edition squad. Randle, who's put on some serious muscle this summer, looked comfortable handling the ball and bolting down the floor.
[Ball Is Life]
Someone in Philly is trying to get rid of a 'life sized Joel Embiid balloon animal' on Craigslist 😂😂 s://t.co/Gwf6AyjM0M
Before seeing this image, it'd be hard to imagine a balloon sculpture looking anything like Philadelphia 76ers big man Joel Embiid.
But it's actually pretty good.
The "life-sized" balloon creation was listed on Craigslist a month ago in the Philly area; the "prodigy" behind it is looking to make a trade for tools, not money.
Giant Embiid replicas aren't the person's only specialty. In the listing, they wrote that they once left a five-foot tall T-Rex sculpture "in the first unlocked car I could find and I still laugh about it every day."
Sounds reasonable. 
[h/t Sports lllustrated, Reddit] 

No one has created more buzz in the Las Vegas Summer League than Lonzo Ball of the Los Angeles Lakers and Dennis Smith Jr. of the Dallas Mavericks.
They squared off on Sunday night with a spot in the championship on the line.
Ball's been talked-about for months. His father, LaVar, his younger brothers dominating high school hoops for Chino Hills, the growth of the controversial Big Baller Brand and its even more controversial sneakers—you've heard most of it by now. But the 19-year-old's play has backed up all the talk.
Triple-Doubles at Las Vegas Summer League over the last decade
-- Lakers' Lonzo Ball: 2
-- All other players combined: 0 s://t.co/Mi8sEWfpfz
A pair of triple-doubles after a rough start has turned heads, with L.A.'s ball movement humming as Ball spreads it around. Heading into Sunday, he averaged 16.4 points, 9.2 assists and 8.4 rebounds while struggling to find his shot, converting 35.4 percent of his attempts from the field and 20.5 percent from deep.
Team president Magic Johnson has raved about him, telling Lakers fans they're "in for a treat":
Magic Johnson talks about Lonzo Ball and difference he makes on the court. s://t.co/fSpnJjWypX
Smith has been more of a breakout star, having slipped to ninth in the draft due to concerns over his "intangibles." This summer has silenced the naysayers. Before facing off against Lonzo, Smith averaged 16.6 points, 4.3 assists, 5.2 rebounds, 3.8 assists on 43.9 percent shooting.
He's also shown off Slam Dunk Contest-worthy bounce:
Dennis Smith Jr. is auditioning for the dunk contest in Summer League 😳 s://t.co/HoPvdDgnFO
Dennis Smith Jr., ladies and gentlemen. s://t.co/ekvGX01BMG
His latest aerial feat came against the Lakers:
.@Dennis1SmithJr takes ✈️  in Las Vegas! 

#NBASummer s://t.co/79yfkceOry
On Sunday, Lonzo got the better of DSJ for most of the night, dropping 16 points, 10 assists and no turnovers while sitting on a 22-point halftime lead. A calf injury sidelined him for most of the second half, though. Despite a ferocious fourth-quarter push from Dallas, the Lakers won 108-98.
Los Angeles moves on to face the Portland Trail Blazers, who defeated the Memphis Grizzlies, 87-82, for the LVSL crown on Monday. You can find viewing information and a game preview below.
     
Information
     
Preview

Heading into Sunday, there was some concern Ball and breakout forward Kyle Kuzma would get pulled due to fatigue. Coach Jud Buechler shut that down, per Harrison Faigen of Silver Screen and Roll:
"They're young kids. The coaches keep telling me to take them out and I just go 'no, they're going to stay in, they're 20 years old. They're fine. Are you kidding me? They're going all the way. Those are our guys. Absolutely they're going to play. They're young. I think they're enjoying the winning."
Ball and Kuzma certainly didn't look fatigued on Sunday, combining for 25 points 9-of-14 shooting while carrying Los Angeles to a 62-40 halftime lead. But the injury bug reared its ugly head.
Things went downhill when Ball exited the contest in the third quarter with a calf injury. He returned but wasn't himself, finishing with 16 points and 10 dimes.
Lonzo Ball headed toward locker room with Lakers training staff, getting his right calf checked.
Portland presents a unique challenge for L.A., especially down low. Caleb Swanigan, drafted 26th overall out of Purdue, is a load on the block. Lakers center Ivica Zubac hasn't shown much ability to slow opposing bigs, so Swanigan should have one of his stronger statistical games. He put up 15 points on 7-of-19 shooting to go along with 11 rebounds against Memphis.

Before running into the Blazers, the Grizzlies had an ideal summer league. Experienced players like Wayne Selden and Wade Baldwin IV carried the team, averaging a respective 24.6 and 15.8 points ahead of Sunday. Baldwin, an explosive second-year guard out of Vanderbilt, chipped in 7.4 boards, a monumental improvement from his regular-season average of 1.4. His lanky frame should allow him to hit the glass harder than he did, and he's proving capable of doing so.
Baldwin and Selden both came up small in the loss, but second-round rookie guard Dillon Brooks continued flashing potential. He led Memphis with 16 points on 7-of-12 shooting in the semifinals loss.

The Blazers had five players reach double figures against Memphis, but so did Los Angeles. And the Lakers' output was more impressive, being that Ball, the catalyst of the run-and-gun offense, was banged up.
The versatile Kuzma went for 24, including five triples, for his third straight 20-point effort. The No. 27 pick out of Utah has been basically unstoppable in Las Vegas, leading Ball to question the teams who passed on him Saturday night:
Lonzo on Kuzma getting drafted 27th: "What were they thinking? Trippin."

Rare LaVar-type moment (at least w/media) for No. 2. #Lakers s://t.co/I8eSzqeRxK
For what it's worth, Ball told reporters he will "hopefully" be able to suit up tomorrow, per Sports Illustrated's Ben Golliver:
Lakers' Lonzo Ball, w/ ice packs on both legs, said right calf is "tight still" but "hopefully I'm ready to go" in Monday final vs. Blazers s://t.co/k3RCJVKixI
If Lonzo does play, expect the Lakers to take home the trophy. The team is just too dynamic with him running the show. Portland's goal should be to slow the game to a crawl, but even then, the Lakers might just outgun the Blazers.
Oh, and brace for "this isn't the only championship we're winning" talk from LaVar. You know that's coming.
Marcell Ozuna is no stranger to robbing home runs at Marlins Park.
On Sunday, the Miami left fielder climbed the wall after Los Angeles Dodgers right fielder Enrique Hernandez belted one deep in the top of the sixth inning.
Ozuna's impressive poise on the fence kept Miami from falling further behind, as the Dodgers led 3-1.
The 26-year-old pulled off a similar move in April:
A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
[MLB]
This works too! s://t.co/OmKQpInSaC
In the top of the fourth inning against the Seattle Mariners on Sunday, Chicago White Sox pitcher Derek Holland caught a bullet off the bat of Robinson Cano.
The second baseman slowed to a jog after Holland snared the chopper behind his back, but the 30-year-old couldn't cleanly get the ball out of his glove.
So, he just threw the glove.
First baseman Jose Abreu was baffled by the move, but the ball was jammed in there, so Holland's unconventional toss was necessary. He asked for another glove after the play.
[MLB]  
A photo posted by CJMcCollum (@3jmccollum)
CJ McCollum apparently wants Carmelo Anthony on the Portland Trail Blazers.
On Sunday, the Portland shooting guard posted a Photoshopped image of Melo rocking a Trail Blazers jersey.
Earlier in the day, ESPN.com's Adrian Wojnarowski reported Rip City was only interested in acquiring Melo and did not want to help him move to the Houston Rockets or elsewhere by taking part in a three-way trade.
Here's Woj:
"Portland believes the addition of a player such as Anthony would furnish it with talent and depth comparable to those of the top Western Conference contenders, except for the Golden State Warriors, league sources said. Because of that, the Blazers have little, if any, inclination to facilitate an Anthony deal that would land him with a Western Conference rival such as Houston, league sources said."
Per Wojnarowski, Anthony is willing to waive his no-trade clause if the Knicks can land him in Houston or alongside LeBron James on the Cleveland Cavaliers.
The 10-time All-Star is expecting to be traded to Houston to play with James Harden and Chris Paul, according to Wojnarowski.
My mom was struggling to push my dad (a Raiders fan, obviously) up the ramp at @ACChampionship when Alex Smith stepped in to help 👏👏👏 s://t.co/pyr1ZPiw8f
Alex Smith's clutch rating just went up.
At the American Century Celebrity Golf Championship on Friday, the Kansas City Chiefs quarterback noticed a couple of Oakland Raiders fans having a hard time. He stepped in to help, with the gentleman in the wheelchair unaware he was being assisted by a Pro Bowl quarterback.
@TanyaMurrayInLA @ACChampionship Yeah, he came out of no where. My dad didn't even know who was pushing him till they made it to the top   Very cool
Smith is likely to begin the 2017 NFL season as the Chiefs' starter, though Kansas City traded up to select Texas Tech quarterback Patrick Mahomes with the No. 10 pick in April's draft.
Note: Kenny Dorset is the social media director at B/R.
LaVar Ball responds to Joel Embiid's fine from the NBA: "When you working for somebody, shut your mouth." s://t.co/HrsD0RKXxn
LaVar Ball is ready to extend his verbal war with Joel Embiid.
After the Philadelphia 76ers big man got fined for saying "f--k LaVar Ball" on Instagram Live, Lonzo's father celebrated the fact that he can't get fined.
"He gets fined every time he says a cuss word," the Big Baller told ESPN.com's Jovan Buha. "Like I said, his vocabulary is limited. I bet you he can't say 'F you' more than I can say it to him—'cause his ass will be broke. When you're working for somebody, shut your mouth."
Embiid was fined $10,000 but didn't seem to mind a whole lot, telling Variety he was glad he said it.
Joel Embiid on saying "Fuck LaVar Ball" on Instagram: "I think most people have been wanting to say that ... I'm glad I said it." s://t.co/szJgV8fa6P

Warning: NSFW language.
Zac Alsop is an evil genius.
On Friday, the YouTuber and sports fan documented his journey at the final leg of Conor McGregor and Floyd Mayweather Jr.'s worldwide press tour in London.
Alsop created two fake credentials—one media, one promoter—with Photoshop and tagged along with various crews to sneak past Wembley Stadium security. He eventually rubbed shoulders with UFC President Dana White and other bigwigs.
In fact, Alsop got so far in that he actually walked out with McGregor's crew.
Alsop has been known to pull these stunts. Last summer, he crashed a Team Great Britain Olympics parade disguised as an athlete.
[YouTube]
Korean baseball is so great s://t.co/3sjWhup8iO
Who says sportsmanship is boring?
On Friday, a video surfaced showing a Korean baseball player bolting toward the mound after getting beaned, only to hug the pitcher, who was clearly amused.
It's not the first time this has happened. This near-brawl turned the infield grass into a dance floor:
Eric Thames, who's broken back onto the scene with 23 home runs for the Milwaukee Brewers this year, pulled off a similar stunt during his years overseas:
[YouTube]
(Warning: Video contains NSFW language.)
If there's ever a time to hop onstage with 2 Chainz, it's at your shoe release.
On Friday, Carolina Panthers star quarterback Cam Newton rapped along with the hip-hop artist to "Riverdale Rd" off the recent Pretty Girls Like Trap Music album to commemorate the C1N Under Armour sneakers.
It’s not the first time the 2015 NFL MVP and 2 Chainz have worked together:
Note the C1N logo on Cam's (gigantic) hat.
[YouTube]
"That’s a man. In a skirt. Trying to return Kim Clijsters' serve. It’s 2017, people.”
That’s one way to summarize what went down at Wimbledon on Friday.
During a doubles match featuring Clijsters and Rennae Stubbs against Conchita Martinez and Andrea Jaeger, one fan was invited down after some heckling.
.@Clijsterskim and @conchitamartinz are making a new friend on @Wimbledon's Ladies invitation doubles! 🎾 #tennis #Wimbledon s://t.co/E75oEsBNaC
He donned a white skirt and top, per Wimbledon rules, before returning a few serves and posing for a picture.


Chicago Cubs fans apparently value memorabilia over dollar signs.
According to ESPN.com’s David Purdum, over 30 percent of bets placed on the Chicago Cubs to win last year’s World Series were not cashed in by the May deadline. While most of the bets were small, Las Vegas ended up saving more than $100,000 in payouts.
Many fans are believed to be keeping the tickets as a souvenir, though a manager at the Golden Nugget said they’d "be happy to make a copy of it."
Per Purdum, one fan explained why he was hanging onto his $10 bet.
"Between ticket stubs, W towels, a lucky penny I picked up when I landed in Cleveland for Game 6 and the winning bet from Vegas, I'm gonna do something really cool with all the mementos," 32-year-old Brian Glickman said. "I'm not cashing it."
[h/t ESPN.com]
Good effort, Gavin.
During an episode of Jeopardy! this week, one contestant guessed that Chicago Cubs Hall of Fame center fielder Hack Wilson belted 191 home runs in 1930.
He did not.
Wilson did drive in 191 runs, though, which remains an MLB record. Barry Bonds set the single-season dinger mark with 73 in 2001.
[h/t Deadspin]
"You’re just a sloth."
"I hit a snowboarder yesterday."
Man, Conor McGregor and Floyd Mayweather have really been going at it ahead of their August 26 boxing match.
With four straight days of face-to-face trash talk capping off on Friday, the good people of Bad Lip Reading put their spin on what the UFC lightweight champion and the 49-0 boxer have been barking at one another.
The clip ends with a rendition of a (made-up) song called "Watch Out, Ronaldo."
[YouTube]

TNT analyst Charles Barkley has been rough on the Golden State Warriors.
After winning two NBA titles in three years, Warriors star Stephen Curry revealed Thursday how he'd like to get payback on the 54-year-old.
It all started when Steph was asked a peculiar question involving Aaron Rodgers, Justin Timberlake and Sir Charles ahead of the American Century Championship, which begins Friday.
When asked to pick one to caddie, one to play with and one to do the Carlton with, Curry said, per ASAP Sports (via For The Win): "I would put Chuck on the bag. He's talked a lot of smack about me and the Warriors in years. So I would load up my bag with some bricks pre-round and definitely put him through that torture for four hours."
Curry added that there is no bad blood between the two:
"No, it's all TV. He's a great personality and knows how to get a headline. And sometimes you don't know if he's being real or not.
But every time I seen him off the grid, he's been great to my family, to me as well. So I take everything he says, literally everything he says, with a grain of salt. But he's a legend. And it's great for the game, obviously, with how much basketball is talked about and the hot takes that are flying around from day to day."
     
[h/t For The Win]
Here's the $1 million penalty that will haunt Karen forever. #Argos #Bombers #CFL s://t.co/Djwxg0Acht
On Thursday night in the Canadian Football League, Martese Jackson of the Toronto Argonauts took a kickoff to the house for the game's second return touchdown, effectively putting $1,000,000 into Karen Kuldys' pockets.
And then came the flag.
A blocking penalty 25 yards from the end zone negated what would've netted Kuldys' family a huge prize in the Safeway/Sobeys $1,000,000 Touchdown To Win contest.
According to Devin Heroux of CBC Sports, Kuldys didn’t realize what was at stake; she initially thought the touchdown served as an entry into the contest.
"My heart just sank and I thought, 'Oh my God, how close could I get to one million dollars,'" she said. "You got to be kidding me. My stomach is in knots just thinking about it right now."
[h/t CBC Sports]
The Ball boys balled out on Thursday.
Before Lonzo went for his second triple-double for the Los Angeles Lakers in the Las Vegas Summer League Thursday, his youngest brother, LaMelo, did the same against Kevin Love's old AAU team, the Southern California All Stars.
This year's No. 2 pick went for 16 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds, while the baby of the family dropped 36 points, 14 dimes and 10 boards.
Lonzo Ball records his second triple-double of #NBASummer! 16p/12a/10r/5s/2b s://t.co/pYm8yiztgW
Three B's, people—one for each stat category.
[YouTube]
The @okcthunder will introduce @Yg_Trece at 7pm/et! s://t.co/d3VdY3KD7O
The Oklahoma City Thunder are already starting their recruiting pitch to the newly acquired Paul George.
Two years after denying Dion Waiters' request to wear James Harden's old number, the Thunder awarded it to PG-13. It was almost a necessity due to that very nickname.

Harden was traded to Houston in 2012. Waiters was acquired by Oklahoma City in 2015.
George, who can opt out of his contract after this upcoming season, has reportedly expressed interest in joining the Los Angeles Lakers next summer. 
However, the team's doing its best to prevent that. OKC fans are getting in on the recruiting effort, too:
OKC welcomes Paul George 🙌 (via @okcthunder) s://t.co/FatI9vkCV3

[h/t SB Nation]
Got 43 minutes to spare? Here's a LaMelo Ball highlight package for the ages.
The guard from Chino Hills, California, has become arguably the most widely known high school player in the country—and his family's theatrics aren't the sole reason.
As a sophomore, the baby of the Ball family dropped 92 points in a single game and casually buried bombs from midcourt. This highlight reel includes other aspects of Melo's game, including a smooth floater and underrated handle.
It's only scoring, though. Per BallerVisions, a passing mix is coming soon.
LaMelo is already committed to the UCLA Bruins. ESPN ranks him No. 8 in the class of 2019, while Scout.com has him 23rd.
[YouTube]

Nothing is ever truly hidden on the internet.
Last weekend, Houston Astros third baseman Alex Bregman direct-messaged a fan who was lamenting the missed chance to trade the 23-year-old to the Chicago White Sox in the offseason for ace Chris Sale.
Bregman wasn't tagged in any of the posts—meaning he sought them out on his own—and, for as dark as many fans can get online, these tweets were downright cordial:
@BenOndaTop @iBrand0n300 Bregman being centerpiece saves you Tucker or Fisher or both. Compared to both being in a deal possibly. With Marwin getting more ABs
But good thing we have Bregman. Jesus s://t.co/3qo6WTdnXo
The fan, user @AllenH83, tweeted the screenshots, which featured Bregman questioning his baseball knowledge and calling him a flea "on the nutsack of society."
Well, to say I received some odd DMs tonight is an understatement haha. At least I know I have a no trade clause now. s://t.co/qeUeKMogsd
Bregman has since deleted his entire account.
[Twitter, h/t WFAA.com]
Ray Allen has always been known for his fancy footwork.
Ask the San Antonio Spurs:

On Sunday, the retired NBA sharpshooter showed off some impressive moves while kicking it with famous hip-hop dancers Les Twins, Lil Beast and Ca Blaze.
Here's another clip:
A photo posted by Official Les Twins (@officiallestwins)
The 41-year-old Allen retired in 2016; he last played in 2013-14 with the Miami Heat.
[Instagram, h/t Ball Is Life]

James Harden with some custom headwear on Snapchat 👀 s://t.co/u7qoAlU2rS
Houston Rockets shooting guard James Harden is trying to bring coolness back.
On Tuesday, the MVP runner-up snapped a picture of himself wearing a "Make American Cool Again" hat, which was similar in style to the one United States President Donald Trump wore during his campaign.
The Beard, 27, agreed to the richest deal in NBA history last week, extending his contract for four more years and $170 million.
    
Kodak moment 📸 #ASG s://t.co/3qoNZQ5hzp
Sometimes, you just need to capture the moment.
In the top of the sixth inning of Tuesday night's MLB All-Star Game, Seattle Mariners designated hitter Nelson Cruz whipped out his phone and asked catcher Yadier Molina to snap a photo of him and umpire Joe West.
The ump was understandably confused, but it made for an amusing moment in the midst of a pitchers' duel.
"Ay Joe, what's your Insta handle? Wanna be sure I tag you."

@ncboomstick23 just wanted a quick picture. 📸 s://t.co/DI5hzeRZx3
Molina belted a home run to center field in the bottom half of the inning to tie things at 1:
Every time a player has taken an in-game picture of an opponent and an umpire, he's homered the next time up. That's just science.
Update: Wednesday, July 12 at 12:20 a.m. ET
Cruz posted the picture they took on his Instagram after the contest:
A photo posted by Nelson Cruz (@ncboomstick23)
---End of update---

Business is boomin'.
On Monday, Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Antonio Brown threw a bash for his 29th birthday, which included a $350,000 Rolls-Royce inside Miami's Cipriani restaurant.
The star pass-catcher flashed a diamond-studded watch while celebrating with Miami Heat big man Hassan Whiteside.
According to TMZ, Brown was also given a $20,000 painting of Muhammad Ali.
[TMZ]
This shirt &amp; sticker showed up on my doorstep tonight. Does anyone know what this is all about? 🤔😎 @Panthers @CMcCaffrey5 @@Jonathanstewar1 s://t.co/UC93kIFJTG
The season is coming.
No, we're not talking about Game of Thrones—though Season 7 does kick off this weekend. We're talking football, and no team has combined the two better than the Carolina Panthers.
Training camp is getting closer &amp; closer.

#WoffordIsComing s://t.co/aP1J1kFz1O
Kicker Graham Gano and veteran linebacker Thomas Davis showed off what appears to be some Thrones-inspired gear. The hashtag #WoffordIsComing was also included as a nod to the South Carolina college that hosts the team's training camp.
A photo posted by td58 (@td58)
It seems like some fans received stickers, as well:
@Panthers @GrahamGano @CMcCaffrey5 @Jonathanstewar1 @GameOfThrones The stickers were in my mailbox this morning. #WoffordIsComing s://t.co/txve2gZuEM
[h/t Panthers Wire]
For you Nino!💯 #JDF s://t.co/jBWxNERwjs
On Monday, it seemed like Washington Nationals slugger Bryce Harper would wear Miami Bryce Under Armour kicks at this year's All-Star Game.
On Tuesday, hours before the first pitch, the 24-year-old showed off a pair of cleats that honored late Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez.
The 2015 National League MVP's kicks featured two portraits of Hernandez, who died in a boating accident in September.
It's a classy move by Harper, especially since the game is at Marlins Park.

The suit s://t.co/jSqV9m2eNK
Warning: NSFW language.
Legendary boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr. and UFC lightweight champion Conor McGregor faced off Tuesday at their first press conference ahead of their Aug. 26 boxing match.
The fighters riled up the crowd on the mic, and at one point, the Irishman said the stripes on his suit read "F--k you."
He wasn't lying.
McGregor, who added that he has his own line of suits coming out, did subtly sneak in the taunt all over his outfit. He also took a shot at the 49-0 Mayweather's attire:
Conor McGregor: "he is in a fookin track suit, he can't even afford a suit anymore"  😂😆 

The No Money Team? 

#MayweatherMcGregor s://t.co/GgaP9F56sd

I'm still mad at mookie. But I'm putting my faith in him right now. He's flying this thing s://t.co/LBfORtrT5k
Tampa Bay Rays pitcher Chris Archer arrived in Miami for the MLB All-Star Game on a plane this weekend. 
Oh, also, the plane was flown by Mookie Betts. 
It's unclear if the Boston Red Sox outfielder has a pilot's license, so this could've been a photo-op. It looks like he was controlling things, though: 
A photo posted by Chris Archer (@chrisarcher22)
Archer clarified that he was "mad" at Betts for homering off him from the leadoff spot Sunday night:
.@mookiebetts wasting no time! s://t.co/7hYXxGlvX5 s://t.co/FwyJt3XR7S
[Twitter, Instagram]
Happy Monday s://t.co/PlhxShYUJX
Portland Trail Blazers guard CJ McCollum had some fun with his Twitter account Monday. 
The 25-year-old posted a highlight tape titled Law & Order: CJ Victims Unit, which featured an ankle-breaker against Devin Harris and a swooping layup against Harrison Barnes. 
McCollum captioned the clip "Happy Monday." 

FIRST LOOK: Bryce Harper's "Miami Bryce" cleats for All-Star Game. Go on sale today for $130 s://t.co/PsewCVUtsq
Miami Bryce has a nice ring to it.
Washington Nationals star Bryce Harper plans on debuting pink and blue Miami Vice-themed Under Armour cleats in Tuesday's MLB All-Star Game, which will take place in the Magic City.
Per ESPN's Darren Rovell, the kicks will sell for $130.

Pittsburgh Steelers running back Le'Veon Bell participated in an NFL-themed episode of Family Feud this week.
Let's just say his future is in football, not trivia. 
Host Steve Harvey asked the following question: "We asked 100 married men. You're home alone. The doorbell rings. It's a naked lady. What do you do?" 
Bell buzzed in immediately, telling Harvey he would "get her number." 
The comedian teased the star rusher for his answer before revealing it wasn't on the board. 
[YouTube] 
Dak Prescott gets it.
This weekend, the Dallas Cowboys' star quarterback took some time to meet with the family of William Durr, a Mississippi police offer killed in a May shooting. 
It was a surprise for 10-year-old Nash Durr, William's son, who was told they were going to a botanical garden. The family supports Mississippi State, Dak's alma mater, so they're fans of the 23-year-old quarterback, who became a star in Dallas following Tony Romo's injury last year. 
Therese Apel of the Clarion-Ledger wrote about Prescott's encounter with the family: 
Nash and his family posed for pictures with his sports hero. The family said that while their hearts are still broken over the loss of William Durr, Prescott's kindness to take some time out for them brought them a little happiness.
Prescott, who lost his mother during his career at MSU, seemed to reflect a little of Durr's personality as well—the deputy was known for taking his time to interact with young people.
[Facebook] 
A photo posted by Sports Videos (@houseofhighlights)
Another chapter entered the legend of Richard Jefferson's Snapchat account this weekend.
While attending former teammate Kent Bazemore's wedding, the Cleveland Cavaliers forward was forced to hang with Golden State Warriors Andre Iguodala and Stephen Curry.
richard jefferson is at kent bazemore's wedding and his snapchat is... very good s://t.co/zqi623ex01
The 37-year-old made it very clear that he's only 1-1 against the Dubs since he had yet to join the Cavs when the Warriors beat them in 2015. 
That didn't stop Iggy from making ring gestures and Curry, Jefferson's former Dubs teammate, from videobombing with a "Warriors" chant. 
Everyone seemed like a good sport. 
[Instagram] 
Note: Skip ahead to 11:45 for the altercation.
In the closing seconds of a Drew League loss in Los Angeles this weekend, Toronto Raptors shooting guard DeMar DeRozan fired the ball at a referee. 
The All-Star scorer was heated over a technical foul he received earlier after throwing the ball off the wall out of frustration. DeRozan could be heard yelling "You suck!" at the official too. 
Here's another angle from a fan who nearly got clocked:
A photo posted by kalby (@aalkalby)
Nick Young, recently signed to the Golden State Warriors, restrained his fellow former USC Trojan, who was still steaming as he exited the court.  
Per Overtime, DDR dropped 41 points. 
[YouTube] 
I remember when I took my son to see me play in the All Star Game. Today, he will play in the Futures Game. Thanks God for the blessings! s://t.co/FwtNO79S8n
Vladimir Guerrero's son is carrying on the family business.
Ahead of Sunday's MLB Futures Game, the nine-time All-Star outfielder celebrated his son, Vladimir Guerrero Jr., who will represent the World team in the contest as a native of Montreal.
"I remember when I took my son to see me play in the All Star Game. Today, he will play in the Futures Game," he wrote. "Thanks, God, for the blessings!"
According to MLB.com, Guerrero Jr., a third baseman, is the No. 1 prospect in the Toronto Blue Jays farm system.

Comments like this have me shook. I really wanted to blur her name out so she doesn't get attention. but it is what it is... ✌🏾 #BLOCK s://t.co/T4UA2DuLg2
United States Olympic gold medalist Simone Biles had no use for a troll who accused her of excessive celebration Saturday.
The commenter said it "seems like [you] have partied nonstop for a year," throwing in the hashtags #trash, #unfollow and #suckyassrolemodel on this photo:
A photo posted by Simone Biles (@simonebiles)
Biles broke out her resume:
"Talk to me when you train for 14 years and earn five Olympic medals. I think kids would say otherwise. My year off is well deserved! Take a couple seats."
Biles wrote that she contemplated blurring out the commenter's name but that "it is what it is."

Овечкин на своей свадьбе s://t.co/3neHurwjrF
Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin celebrated his marriage to Nastasiya Ovechkina nee Shubskaya in Russia on Saturday.
It looked like an elegant ceremony and celebration:
A photo posted by  (@vogue._.style)
A photo posted by Katya Lel- Singer (@katyalel777)
A photo posted by Кирилл Маслиев (@g8g7)
Until Ovi hopped onto the stage.
The 31-year-old ditched his shirt and danced with the emcee.
Classic.
[Twitter, Instagram, h/t Barstool Sports]
The Originals #LOB @Kam_Chancellor @Earl_Thomas @bbrowner27 For Kam's wedding 🙌🏾 s://t.co/sIJuXnhBv7
On Saturday, the "Legion of Boom" returned.
While attending Kam Chancellor's wedding, the Seattle Seahawks secondary—the most dominant unit in the NFL from 2011 to 2013—got together for a group picture.
Cornerback Brandon Browner, who used to line up opposite Richard Sherman, spent his last two seasons with the New England Patriots and New Orleans Saints.
Chancellor and Earl Thomas rounded out the original foursome. They led the Seahawks to a win in Super Bowl 48.
[h/t theScore, Twitter]
A photo posted by ufc (@ufc)
Warning: NSFW language.
Michael Bisping has a certain way with words.
After watching Robert Whittaker win the interim middleweight UFC title Saturday night, the 38-year-old unleashed a WWE-style promo during Joe Rogan's post-match interview.
Whittaker was respectful, telling Bisping he was "happy to keep your seat warm."
Bisping wasn't so kind.
"I wanted to come here and talk a lot of s--t, but it was an awesome fight," he said into the mic. "But the fact that you're standing there with that f--king belt on, like you're a champion, makes me sick. You should be ashamed of yourself.
"Here. Take that," he said, throwing his belt down. "Fight me for it. I'll see you soon, motherf--ker."
[Instagram]
Former Sacramento Kings shooting guard Ben McLemore agreed to a deal with the Memphis Grizzlies last Sunday night.
Here's the moment it happened.
The 24-year-old former Kansas Jayhawk was working out at a high school when his phone rang.
"I might need to answer that," he said, jogging off the floor.
McLemore's agent told him about the two-year deal worth $11 million.
"I was a little emotional. It's a dream come true," he said. "... It's a great opportunity for me and my family and a new beginning."
When McLemore got home, he popped champagne with family and friends. He's from St. Louis, Missouri, so he's semi-close to his loved ones.
[h/t Ball Is Life]
No, you're crying.
This week, baseball fan Steve Winfree, who's had kidney disease for 14 years, got the surprise of a lifetime from his wife, Heather.
The two have a shared interest in baseball cards, so Heather revealed to Steve that she was a donor match with a special card placed in a regular pack.
Steve was just happy to get Mike Trout and rookie Clint Frazier cards. When he got the card his wife made, the emotions came out.
I'M GETTING A NEW KIDNEY!! MY WIFE IS A MATCH!!!! I CAN'T BELIEVE IT!!! I'M BAWLING MY EYES OUT RIGHT NOW! We got the reaction on film too!!
According to Michael Clair and Jessica Kleinschmidt of MLB.com, the surgery could happen by the end of July.
[h/t SB Nation]
A photo posted by Alex Kang (@alexkang1234)
Danielle Kang knows how to celebrate.
After winning the 2017 KPMG Women's PGA Championship last Sunday at Olympia Fields Country Club in Illinois, the 24-year-old filled up her trophy with pho and ate from it.
Kang told Barstool Sports' Fore Play podcast that she and Michelle Wie "stole" the trophy before she was supposed to have it for a night on the town.                       
That's where the pho came in.                                
She added that in addition to a bowl, the trophy was used as a cup.
"I had my caddies drink beer out of it, I ate noodles out of that thing, and then we had to return it."
[h/t Munchies]

The Carolina Panthers are slick.
This week, the team tweeted out a secret message using the first word of each tweet. In total, it took 39 individual posts to spell out the intro of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air theme song.
It probably would've gone unnoticed if not for the heads-up.
Now go back and read the first word of our tweets from the last three days
Here are the tweets, in all their glory:
This is what you need to know if you plan on visiting us at training camp

Info » s://t.co/7c1qxFChqT s://t.co/jfKTKINti2
Is it football season yet? s://t.co/Us94wxJKo1
A look at the @TDDDF car &amp; bike show with @ThomasDavisSDTM 

📸: s://t.co/q2U5bdGZSW s://t.co/P4PuYAWf0T
Story of the week? Find out in our roundup of headlines from around the web

📰: s://t.co/s53euXvbOj s://t.co/uqZs2s1and
All our rookies know how to put in work 💪

📸: s://t.co/DAuCvd8hTp s://t.co/4U4JgeTphH
About to make it four. #KeepPounding s://t.co/XimY4w7TsK
How does the #Panthers O-Line look heading into training camp? 

Position Preview » s://t.co/dcGIoAjiQ6 s://t.co/z4gKSfH8QR
"My prime better be now" 

More from Cam » s://t.co/NaTlXd9uhK s://t.co/o5s3YZylh7
Life is more fun with #Panthers football 🙌

20 more days till training camp! s://t.co/rsVjGpSkeu
Got a photo that shows off your #Panthers pride? Share it for a chance to win a VIP trip to training camp! 

Info » s://t.co/Vau66pXQTI s://t.co/ZIsAJm6mnU
Flipped into the end zone! This play never gets old. #FlashbackFriday s://t.co/YKFPps422r
Turned from teammate to coach. Catch up with former #Panthers WR Jerricho Cotchery. s://t.co/515S4oOgAM
Upside from the start! Watch @CMcCaffrey5 dominate this game of Pee Wee football. s://t.co/0z83GeLQhV
Down to 65 Days Until Kickoff! #KeepPounding s://t.co/Xxh39R1zwS
and you are officially ready for football season! 🙌 s://t.co/MJTARlvX4M
"I'd single out Cam Newton. He came back extremely focused" 

Training Room Standouts » s://t.co/zoVFstY4XE s://t.co/a3t8oYpVJU
Like blink-182? @benboulware7 does! He also took over our Instagram story today! s://t.co/hfgrWx9LPM
To all QBs: Look out. @kk_mr93 is coming for you. #KeepPounding s://t.co/MFILhCjnGR
Take a look at the #Panthers wide receivers in action! 👐🏈

📸: s://t.co/erDVXMIfNJ s://t.co/5Fq4pOpKw1
A happy birthday to Matt Kalil! 🎉🎂🎁 s://t.co/jwAOuJQBIx
Minute by minute, the season is getting closer! #KeepPounding s://t.co/vlOdb48bjP
Just in time for summer vacation...new #Panthers gear! 🙌

Shop Now » s://t.co/8MtVR9yXJV s://t.co/C9vgTQEiQu
Sit back, take a break from work and enjoy some highlights of #LUUUUKE s://t.co/08trfPLvu9
Right tackle is up for grabs. Who will be the starter come Week 1? 

OL Preview » s://t.co/dcGIoA1HYy s://t.co/odWkAFiwrB
There is still time to win a VIP trip to training camp from @MillerLite!  

More Info » s://t.co/Vau66pXQTI  

#PlayLikeAPanther s://t.co/EbhaXK9EoK
"I'll always miss playing," says Jerricho Cotchery. But he's looking ahead - and looking forward to coaching

📰: s://t.co/KceNT7xrUE s://t.co/OhjwRkWlhR
Tell your coach to apply for the #Panthers &amp; @Academy equipment grant! 

Details » s://t.co/KceNT7xrUE s://t.co/ycVAkWldlb
“You don’t play the game to be second best” 

More from Cam » s://t.co/NaTlXdr5Gk s://t.co/qRIhPz8CTt
How does the return of @captain_41 help the #Panthers young secondary? 

Find Out » s://t.co/zoVFsufGme s://t.co/biwd1Q9MaA
“I knew if I wanted to make the team, it was going to be on special teams" 

Read More » s://t.co/0hFEjnJg4d s://t.co/Bba4RecsmP
Became a #Panthers fan after living in Charlotte. Help Mark Reynolds make the All Star Game! #BeLikeMark s://t.co/66OaItj0V7
The grind continues! @Brad_B21 took over our Instagram account to give us an inside look at his training routine. #KeepPounding s://t.co/f7RaMY94yz
Prince. Hornets. Nickelodeon. Superman. 

Just some of the 🔥 kicks Cam’s worn over the years 

More 📸: s://t.co/ZRNHRB0FiV s://t.co/UPL9CFIdFI
Of Course: LUUUUKE, TD &amp; Shaq. #KeepPounding s://t.co/7TkDLbDBxj
A look at the #Panthers running backs in action 💥

📸: s://t.co/TY2ozeyef5 s://t.co/G6TWGxbgj2
Town Pride! Help Charlottean Mark Reynolds reach the All Star Game, #Panthers fans! #BeLikeMark s://t.co/MKl0LTFgTP
Called upon to fill the void left by A.J. Klein, David Mayo is ready to step up 

Read More » s://t.co/XF4796aRZT s://t.co/91SQRDDjaM
🔔 Random Giveaway! 

RT for a chance to win a #Panthers mini helmet! We'll pick a random winner by 3PM today. s://t.co/WOiPFsLSiC
Air Stew 💪 #KeepPounding s://t.co/nQk6B8E0CG
Props for the bell emoji.
 

Arizona Cardinals head coach Bruce Arians is a quarterback guru.
The 64-year-old has worked with Peyton Manning, Ben Roethlisberger, Andrew Luck, Carson Palmer and others during his NFL career, so he's as qualified as anyone to talk about coaching QBs.
In his new book, The Quarterback Whisperer: How to Build an Elite NFL Quarterback, which was written with B/R's Lars Anderson and hits shelves July 11, Arians recalls a young Manning asking out of a blowout.
With the Indianapolis Colts well behind the New England Patriots, Arians, who was then the Colts' quarterbacks coach, called out the franchise player—and it worked (h/t Mike Florio of Pro Football Talk).
"Midway through the fourth quarter of the game, with the outcome already decided, Peyton was so frustrated that he asked for mercy. He wanted to be pulled from the game."
"'F--k no, get back in there,' I told him. 'We'll go no-huddle and maybe you'll learn something. You can never ask to come out. You're our leader. Act like it.'"
Arians then describes what happened next as a "sight to behold," with Manning leading a late drive that ended in a touchdown pass. Arians saw the drive give Manning a "shot of confidence."
Anyone who saw Arians on Amazon's All or Nothing series last summer knows he often uses, uh, colorful language. But it's always about the football player, not the person.
It seems like that approach worked with Manning, who went on to become an all-time great.
[Pro Football Talk]

New York Yankees shortstop Didi Gregorius went around the Big Apple doing good deeds in a campaign for All-Star votes.
On Thursday, the 27-year-old swiped New Yorkers onto the subway, handed out umbrellas, took pictures, made a burrito bowl and hopped on a tour, all with the Midsummer Classic in mind.
#SirDidi4Sure #didisdeeds #Belikemark s://t.co/vva6FILL10
At @NYSE handing out 🌂's. #belikemark #sirdidi4sure #DIDIsDEEDs s://t.co/BC7iv1jrHg
Need your photo taken? I got u! #belikemark #sirdidi4sure #DIDIsDEEDs s://t.co/b7D0P1ZZDx
I interrupt your tour to bring you this special message. #belikemark #sirdidi4sure #DIDIsDEEDs 😱😱 s://t.co/lwmXJlsAeq
Making A burrito bowl at @dostoros #belikemark #sirdidi4sure #DIDIsDEEDs s://t.co/CJEgidDsWm
As part of the MLB's Final Vote system, any tweet that featured #SirDidi4Sure counted as a vote. The Yankees team account got in on the action, too, but Kansas City Royals third baseman Mike Moustakas beat out Gregorius and others.
.@DidiG18 - you're an All-Star to us. Thank you again to all the fans &amp; friends from around the globe that voted these last few days! s://t.co/u198g3gudO
According to James Miller of the New York Daily News, the Final Vote "allows fans to cast ballots online at MLB.com or team websites, text-message entry and—on the final day of voting—social media voting via Twitter, to elect one player from each league to the season’s annual All-Star game."
If he got in, Sir Didi would've joined Bombers teammates Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez, Dellin Betances, Luis Severino and Starlin Castro.

Good Morning, everyone s://t.co/KBnmhxBdTe
On Thursday night, ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski and Ian Begley reported the New York Knicks agreed to a four-year, $71 million offer sheet with Atlanta Hawks restricted free-agent guard Tim Hardaway Jr.
The Knicks drafted THJ in 2013 before trading him for the No. 19 pick, Jerian Grant, two years later. That didn’t work out. 
On Friday, the New York Daily News was ready to roast.
The tabloid—known for clever wordplay, like "Karma's a witch" when Phil Jackson got fired—went with "Holy sheet!"
Well put.
offering Tim Hardaway Jr. $71 million is one hell of an encore to giving Joakim Noah $72.6 million


Oklahoma City Thunder forward Andre Roberson agreed to a new three-year, $30 million deal Wednesday night, as reported by ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski. Hours later, per TMZ, he got called out for leaving a $14 tip on a bill close to $500 at the Chupacabra Cantina in Austin, Texas.
Roberson defended himself, responding to the Twitter user who posted the receipt and telling him he'd understand the gripes if it were a club: 
@FlyDre21 get paid 30 million for 3 years and tips this!!! Your trash!!! s://t.co/OSONPSBSUA
@DavidRo74294058 Shouldn't have had to tip you it was just a bottle at a bar ...there was no service ..now I can see if it was a club! You Reaching bro
The 25-year-old lockdown defender actually tipped more than he intended to, as the total he put down was $500 even:  
@FlyDre21 @DavidRo74294058 Ayy @FlyDre21 you actually overpaid him $1.10 go get your money back bro 😂😂😂 s://t.co/aKe8cAZ1mU
Roberson eventually moved on and tweeted to Thunder teammates Steven Adams and Enes Kanter:  
In other news! Where is @Enes_Kanter &amp; @RealStevenAdams these days hope your doing good brodies!!!
Update: Adams and Kanter both responded on Thursday night, and it's possible Roberson now regrets his earlier tweet: 
@FlyDre21 @Enes_Kanter We just out here tipping more than $13 
😂🤙🤙🤙
@RealStevenAdams @FlyDre21 Hahaha oh no!! Don't do that to him like that plz 😂😂
  
First player to hit 2 HR off Madison Bumgarner in same inning? 

That would be @Dodgers prospect @8Peters: s://t.co/nZIxdstXRj s://t.co/PPuu0LqW5C
Los Angeles Dodgers Class A Advanced prospect DJ Peters had Madison Bumgarner's number Wednesday night. 
In the fourth inning of the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes' 14-1 beatdown of the San Jose Giants, the outfielder went yard twice against one of MLB's top pitchers, who's rehabbing from a dirt bike accident in April. No one had ever taken MadBum deep twice in the same inning before. 
Peters embraced the moment but didn't let it get to his head, as he told Michael Leboff of MiLB.com (h/t MLB.com's Mike Rosenbaum): 
"First off, it's Madison Bumgarner and he's one of the best pitchers of the game. He's a three-time World Series champion and basically single-handedly won the Giants the World Series in 2014. Whenever you face a guy like that, you want to enjoy the moment and gauge the situation you're in and the atmosphere. My whole mindset was to just have fun because I got to face one of the best pitchers in the game of baseball."
According to Henry Schulman and John Shea of the San Francisco Chronicle, Bumgarner is on pace to return by July 15. 
 
Even at 4'9", four-time Olympic gold medalist Simone Biles can dunk a basketball.
Sort of. 
On Wednesday, the 20-year-old joined Hammer Harrison as an honorary member of the Harlem Globetrotters. She worked on some fancy ball-handling in a custom uniform before dunking off a springboard.
Then Biles turned the tables. 
After playing along as a Globetrotter, she put Harrison to the test with a series of gymnastics. He held his own. 

"I would give him a 10," Biles said. "I was actually really impressed. I think he could be on an Olympic team."
When spinning a ball gets added to the games as a sport, count the Globetrotters in.
[YouTube] 
Over the weekend, Sergio Roque reeled in a 964-pound tiger shark during a Texas City fishing tournament.
According to ABC 13, the gigantic catch took three hours and several people to wrangle on a nearly sinking boat.
"It's the hardest fight I've ever had in my life, the strongest one," Roque said. "When I first set the hook, and it pulled me straight across the back of the boat, pulled me straight to the corner and slammed my knees onto it."
The state record for a tiger shark is 1,129 pounds, but Roque’s catch placed first in the 55th Annual Tackle Time Fishing Tournament, which provides scholarships in the Independent School District.
[h/t Yahoo]
Alligators seem to be the most common animal sightings when it comes to golf courses. Last week, a Swedish golfer had a different experience, as seen in this video posted by Tony Swahn.
He not only saw a moose; he was chased by one.
The gangly animal looked thrown off by the bag of clubs and then turned its attention toward the player. The golfer seemed amused until the moose started booking.
He got away, thankfully, and the moose wandered off, possibly to chase other golfers. 
[h/t SB Nation]  
DeMar DeRozan repping the North with the first-ever NBA 2K Canadian cover s://t.co/3c1lGPGOe7
Kyrie Irving is the cover athlete for NBA 2K18, but not in Canada. That honor belongs to Toronto Raptors shooting guard DeMar DeRozan.
The 27-year-old All-Star found out about the Canadian cover in the middle of the regular season and was blown away.
"I remember being a kid, creating a player in the video game, and being excited just doing that," DeRozan told theScore's Joseph Casciaro. "The next thing was being in the college basketball game, and then the next thing, being in the NBA game. Seeing your face, seeing yourself evolve in the game, and looking even more real, to hearing your voice in the game, to now, being on the cover. It's something that's extremely awesome and definitely mind-blowing."
DeRozan averaged a career-high 27.3 points in 2016-17, leading Toronto to the playoffs for the fourth straight season.
The game will hit stores September 19. 
 

The Utah Jazz Twitter account posted what appeared to be a peculiar response to Gordon Hayward's decision to join the Boston Celtics. 
Hayward's tweet went live at 8:48 p.m. ET, and Utah's post—an uncaptioned picture of big man Rudy Gobert—was published almost simultaneously. The time stamp listed on the Gobert picture was actually one minute prior to Hayward's announcement via the Players' Tribune.
Thank You, Utah. s://t.co/ICfocNeZfW
Here's the Gobert one:

Most fans took the photo as a way of saying, "This is our franchise player now." Utah deleted the picture in minutes and followed up with a message from team ownership:
Gordon, thank you from the Miller Family and the Utah Jazz. s://t.co/FEVCNBWMGv

The triple reds. Check out the entire Independence collection. 🇺🇸

CLICK THE LINK 👇🏽

s://t.co/to8f39wN93 s://t.co/XGLpGYbXMp
Big Baller Brand celebrated July 4 by releasing three new colorways of Lonzo Ball’s first signature shoe, the ZO2.
The red, white and blue kicks all sell for $495—and $695 for sizes 14 and 15—and will ship on Nov. 24, per the Big Baller Brand website.
According to BBB, the Independence Day collection is available for a "very limited time," which makes sense given the holiday theme.
The original ZO2s are no longer listed for preorder, but the Los Angeles Lakers-themed Sho'Time! kicks, released on draft night, still are.
Update: Tuesday, July 4 at 8:40 p.m. ET
LaVar and Lonzo took to social media after the announcement. The head of the Ball household encouraged true Ballers to get all three colors:
A photo posted by Lavar Ball (@lavar)
Lonzo was less forward while still encouraging BBB fans to purchase the company's latest:
A photo posted by Lonzo Ball (@zo)
---End of update---


The beef with Nathan's is still fresh.
Takeru Kobayashi—arguably the greatest professional eater of all time, a man whose records include eating 62 slices of pizza in 12 minutes and 13 grilled cheese sandwiches in one minute, a man whose uniquely positioned stomach and innovative nature allowed him to double the previous Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest record of 25 in his first try—is again not involved in America's most famous eating competition.
A six-time champion of the event, Kobayashi, now 39, is still embroiled in contract disputes with Major League Eating, and he subsequently hasn't competed in the Coney Island Independence Day tradition since 2009. And while there are many other high-profile contests for competitive eaters in countries with much more interest in the sport than the United States, Kobi's perpetual absence from the Nathan's stage continues to be felt.

After all, Kobayashi wasn't just competitive eating's Michael Jordan. As Major League Eating president Rich Shea said to ESPN's Darren Rovell in 2007, "To associate Michael Jordan with Kobayashi is a slight against Kobayashi."
Today, Kobayashi lives in New York, so we decided to have "The Tsunami" swing by our Bleacher Report offices to dish on what he's eating these days, if retirement is on the horizon and whether he—a man whose authority in this matter surpasses almost anyone's—thinks a hot dog is a sandwich.
A photo posted by Takeru Kobayashi 小林尊 (@kobayashitakeru)
Bleacher Report: What eating records that you hold are you most proud of?
Takeru Kobayashi: This is a difficult question. It's really personal opinion, but I'd like to say it's cow brains. Because I hate cow brains! [Ed. Note: Kobayashi ate 57 cow brains in 15 minutes.] That tasted awful and it looked, you know, gross. [Laughs.] The smell is so bad! It had been so long from when they prepared it for the competition. The more time that goes by, it gets stinky.
And actually, it's not my opinion, but many people say the most important record is 50 hot dogs. Because I doubled the record and I changed their market. I agree with that idea, too.
A photo posted by Takeru Kobayashi 小林尊 (@kobayashitakeru)
B/R: You've discussed the process of rethinking how eating was done, thinking of it more as a sport. How do you think that applies to your life overall? Do you look at everything as a problem that can be solved differently?
Kobayashi: I'm always like that about everything. When I try to do something, I always think, "What is the best way to do this?" Instead of taking what everyone else says and how it has been forever, it's faster for me to try myself. Of course I listen to what everybody says, and at first I'll try what people say, but I always come back to [trying it my way.]
  
B/R: Do you still watch the Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest?
Kobayashi: [Laughs.] Not at all.

B/R: Have you ever had any contact with Joey Chestnut since then?
Kobayashi: No, because I don't have his phone number or email address. About four years ago, I was working with a hot dog company, and the CEO [said] something to Joey Chestnut and Joey Chestnut got angry and he said something back about me on Twitter, so I blocked him. [Laughs.]
I didn't want to talk with him that way. People may think, "Competitive eaters are so childish!"
B/R: What did you think of people playing into the USA vs. Japan stuff with you and Chestnut?
Kobayashi: [I've been] living in New York City almost seven years, and my mentality has changed a lot. Just from being in New York this long and going across America, I realize that in New York, nobody really cares. They are just like, "We're New Yorkers." I feel like that is really the way it should be.
I don't like competing in front of people saying "U-S-A! U-S-A!" to me—I live here!
B/R: You told Sports Illustrated last year you cared less about beating Joey Chestnut's record because he was beaten by Matt Stonie. With Chestnut winning last year, do you want to beat him again, or are you satisfied?
Kobayashi: I'm not really interested in anyone's record or anyone—I'm always fighting with myself. I always try to do my best. I'm not really interested in Nathan's. Last year, ESPN 30 for 30 wanted to have us rematch, but I asked them to make MLE get out of the competition. "If you can do that, I'm happy to compete with him." But they couldn't, because Nathan's has a three-year contract with MLE. So I said no.

B/R: Things like esports and drone racing are growing. How does competitive eating grow again?
Kobayashi: If we have big sponsors and if they have huge prize money, many great eaters would come. Maybe they should make teams.
B/R: That's really clever, because the sports I mentioned are both team-based. Drone racing and esports both have teams.
Kobayashi: Each of the eaters has their own speciality. Someone has huge stomach capacity, someone can eat fast, someone is good at eating meat, someone loves sweets. [Laughs.]
B/R: Do you still work out?
Kobayashi: I used to work out really hard. But I quit. [Laughs.] I was about 200 pounds. Now I'm 135 pounds. I lost a lot of muscles. I got arthritis from the bars. I actually have jaw arthritis.
A photo posted by Takeru Kobayashi 小林尊 (@kobayashitakeru)
B/R: When you aren't eating, what are you doing? What are your hobbies?
Kobayashi: I like dogs. I really love dogs. I used to have a beagle and a miniature [wiener] dog. [Laughs.] 
B/R: Obviously style is one, too.
Kobayashi: I think many people think competitive eating is a really disgusting sport, so people think they look bad normally. But I care about what I'm wearing. I don't want to be someone who is doing something that is considered gross and then also look like a slob.
If we did have a competitive eating league or teams like we talked about, they would need to look good for it to be [marketable]. Think about basketball, they all wear nice sneakers. Packaging has everything to do with the market.
B/R: If you weren't eating, what other sport would you be playing?
Kobayashi: Baseball. I used to play baseball in high school. I [once] threw a first pitch 87 mph.

B/R: Is a hot dog a sandwich?
Kobayashi: No! No. You have to have a lot of respect for hot dogs. It's completely different.
First of all, the hot dog is American. Sandwiches are not American. They're different. Second of all, a hot dog is like a pop idol. Hot dogs are cute. It's a pop image—everyone knows what a hot dog is.
B/R: Have you given any thought to retirement?
Kobayashi: Not really soon, but I'm thinking about it. With my talent for being able to eat as an athlete, I'm just looking to use that talent in other fields now. What can I do with that talent besides just competing?
Just a taste of what is to come.

@UCLAFootball l @UAFootball

#GoBruins s://t.co/FRPKRu4BUH
At midnight on July 1, the UCLA Bruins began their new apparel partnership with Under Armour. 
According to ESPN's Darren Rovell, it's the largest deal in college sports:
UCLA gets a $15 million signing bonus tomorrow as part of its 15-year, $280M deal with Under Armour, the largest deal in college sports. s://t.co/mVUHalEPld
On Monday, the Bruins' Twitter account gave fans a taste of their new football uniforms. And they are sweet. The cleats and helmets are particularly sleek.
We look forward to the full release on July 15.

Get Right for the Summer Workout …

featuring Kanye West and 2 Chainz s://t.co/bzUPh6cEMJ
On Monday, hip-hop artists 2 Chainz and Kanye West hit the practice court with the UCLA Bruins. 
According to the former—who's 6'5" with a legitimate jumper—they "ball(ed) out."
A photo posted by 2 Chainz Aka Tity Boi (@hairweavekiller)
The crew posted for a picture, with each rapper rocking their own apparel. 2 Chainz had on a College Park shirt, while Yeezy wore a pair of Saint Pablo shorts next to LiAngelo Ball.
A photo posted by UCLA Men's Basketball (@uclambb)
No word on whether 'Ye is down with the Big Baller Brand.
[Instagram]
All-Star shooting guard DeMar DeRozan and Marvin Bagley III, Scout.com's No. 1-ranked high school player in the class of 2018, squared off in the Drew League this weekend.
Fireworks ensued.
In the midst of a 30-point performance, the Toronto Raptors star put the pride of Sierra Canyon School on the floor with a series of fakes and crossovers, scored, then threw the ball to him as he returned to his feet.
Bagley didn't get showed up, though. The 6'11" forward dropped 32 points against grown-man competition.
At one point, he blew past DeRozan on the wing and hammered a vicious two-handed dunk over the help defender.
[YouTube]
.@kobebryant has the PERFECT philosophy on participation trophies s://t.co/JQNab5im1U
Kobe Bryant isn't big on participation trophies.
Shocker, huh?
During a Facebook Live session with Al Michaels and Janet Evans to announce his involvement in Los Angeles' 2024 Olympics bid, the Black Mamba told a story about his daughters receiving fourth-place trophies in a basketball tournament.
Welcome to the team!

#LA2024 is excited to add @kobebryant to the Board of Directors, and as the 100th Athletes' Advisory Commission member s://t.co/6o39U16CAj
The Lakers legend said they were disappointed and didn’t want the token awards. Bryant went into #MambaMentality dad-mode and told them how to use the trophies as motivation.
"I said, 'Well, listen, get the fourth-place trophy, go home. You take the fourth-place trophy, you put it up right where you can see it. And when you wake up in the morning, you look at the trophy and you remind yourself of what you'll never win again.'"
Kobe chimed in on Twitter, preaching the value of losing:
If we don't teach our children the fun inside of the process of winning AND losing then what are we teaching them? #play #learn #grow s://t.co/Z2p3nV3JQD

OBJ is doing work this offseason 👀 (via obj/Instagram) s://t.co/dfuK3CuuJT
In April, Odell Beckham Jr. showed off a leg tattoo of late pop icon Michael Jackson. He’s since added to it.
After getting some still-undisclosed ink on (or at least near) his rear end, the New York Giants superstar wide receiver showed off new tats of rapper Lil Wayne and late reggae singer Bob Marley along with Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield this weekend. The boxers appear to be framed by a Sports Illustrated cover.
This combination on music and the sweet science seems to be a theme. Beckham also has tattoos that feature the late Tupac and Muhammad Ali (look closely):
family cookout s://t.co/T5V6w0n2nG
The art was done by @gangatattoo, who in June tatted a portrait of Beckham and his famous one-handed grab onto a fan.
A photo posted by ᴳᴬᴺᴳᴬ ᵀᴬᵀᵀᴼᴼ (@gangatattoo)
[Instagram]
A photo posted by Chris Brickley (@cbrickley603)
It's hoodie season.
All summer, Carmelo Anthony has been in the gym with New York Knicks assistant and former Louisville Cardinals guard Chris Brickley.
No. 7 is all about the hood.
A photo posted by Chris Brickley (@cbrickley603)
On Saturday night (or Sunday morning), Melo and Brickley worked out at a Manhattan soccer field near 2 a.m. ET. They went heavy on the cardio, mixing in sprints and defensive slides.
Melo is under contract with the Knicks through 2018-19, but an early-termination option could make him a free agent next summer.
[Instagram]

Manny Pacquiao lost his WBO welterweight title to Jeff Horn in controversial fashion Saturday.
By the numbers, the 38-year-old appeared to dominate the fight, via ESPN Stats & Info:
Final punch statistics favored Manny Pacquiao, but Jeff Horn won WBO welterweight championship #PacquiaoHorn s://t.co/ZxMIeH88hU
Athletes across all sports chimed in, including superstars like retired NBA legend Kobe Bryant and Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers:
#PacquiaoHorn s://t.co/i1oqnD74Q2
Boxing is a joke, and it proves it again tonight. Are you kidding me with those scorecards?
#joke #rigged
Damian Lillard, Karl-Anthony Towns, Mike Miller and Dion Waiters tweeted their frustrations with the judges' decision:
Boxing has real issues man ... That's not right
Disrespected @mannypacquiao like he not a legend. #PacquiaoHorn
Exactly s://t.co/IU7XVB94AK
So the ref almost stops fight in round 9. Pacquiao lands 32% of his punches to Horn's 15% but somehow Horn gets the unanimous decision? 😡🤔
They robbed PAC man omfg 😳😳😳
Retired NFL cornerback Deion Sanders praised Pacquiao for his composure following the loss:
Classy @mannypacquiao classy. You're a better man than many of us. I would've gone off after that mess. #Truth
In perhaps the biggest indictment of the unanimous-decision outcome, three-time world heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis said he couldn't see how the Pac-Man was defeated "by any stretch:"
This is what's wrong with boxing. Horn was very game but I'm hard pressed to see how he could have won that fight by any stretch! #PacHorn

My brother just came back from a mission trip to Nicaragua from Miami to Boston and Hayward was on the flight! Here's a picture with them! s://t.co/rvyvFMED9f
Late Saturday night, Twitter user John Habershaw shared a photo of his brother, who had just gotten off a flight from Miami to Boston. Joining him was Celtics head coach Brad Stevens and free-agent forward Gordon Hayward.
Cue the eyes emojis.
Hayward was scheduled to meet with Boston on Sunday after he heard—and looked at—the Miami Heat's recruiting pitch Saturday, so seeing the ex-Butler Bulldogs together wasn't shocking.
Meeting Hayward at the airport was a shrewd move by Stevens, though, as it gave him more time with his former player.
Update: Sunday, July 2, at 11:05 a.m. ET
The Celtics are taking Hayward and his family on a tour of Boston.
Of course, that includes a stop at Fenway Park:
Gordon Hayward's tour of Boston sounds like it has begun. Celtics brass and Isaiah Thomas spotted at Fenway Park.
@AdamMKaufman  s://t.co/etZtyPBons
Here's a clip of a video that was played on the video board:
@StoolGreenie @SherrodbCSN @AdamHimmelsbach here is some of the video the Celtics are showing to Hayward at Fenway right now s://t.co/nT6br6O4IJ
---End of update---

Another episode of #ChinaKlay s://t.co/S7tfcbnhZm
Klay Thompson is having quite a time in China. 
Just days after getting rim-stuffed and tumbling to the floor, the Golden State Warriors sharpshooter was defeated in an arm-wrestling contest by a female fan. 
Midway through the match, she reached across and tickled Thompson, who folded and hit the deck (again). 
We look forward to his next adventure. 
 
but LaVar's album tho s://t.co/6eVCCkRaed
Jay-Z is established as an all-time great rapper.
But is he a Big Baller?
After the 47-year-old released his 13th studio album, 4:44, to rave reviews Thursday night, Silver Screen and Roll's Grant Goldberg created a LaVar Ball-themed tracklist, B:BB, that mimicked HOV's. 
For context, here's Jay-Z's: 
Hov dropped another game changer. Just pure excellence, upper echelon rap. Another blueprint. s://t.co/rm2jamAmeb s://t.co/hIRPNKyUNk
"The Story of Z.O." is classic. 
 
A photo posted by Vanguard Sports Group (@vanguardsports)
Iron sharpens iron.
On Thursday, Denver Broncos star linebacker Von Miller hosted a "Pass Rush Summit" at Stanford with fellow quarterback hunters Shane Ray, DeMarcus Ware, Khalil Mack, Vic Beasley, Malik Jackson, Solomon Thomas, Cassius Marsh, Cliff Avril and others. 
Miller has been planning this event for a while. He told ESPN's Vaughn McClure in January that he planned on bringing in Beasley, the Atlanta Falcons breakout star who led the NFL in sacks, and the NFL's best.
"A sack is a sack. I'm going to get sacks, they're going to get sacks," Miller told Nicki Jhabvala of the Denver Post. "You really can't stop that. You really benefit more from really just sharing that knowledge and just trying to be the best players that you can possibly be." 
Here's a look at the event: 
A photo posted by Vanguard Sports Group (@vanguardsports)
.@Coach_Diron teaching the best at the @VonMiller Pass Rush Summit.

#Rushmen #StanfordNFL s://t.co/ns28gQwQRI
I just learned so much in 4 hours it's crazy! Thanks for inviting me big bro! @VonMiller
[Twitter, Instagram]
😂😂😂 bust potential goes automatically up 50% when you're from Europe. s://t.co/TWUUJeMY54
Players drafted from overseas are often viewed as more volatile than players coming out of college in the United States.
New York Knicks guard Frank Ntilikina is the latest example.
Before getting selected with the No. 8 overall pick in the 2017 NBA draft on Thursday night at the Barclays Center, the 18-year-old was given a 59 percent chance to bust, according to ESPN's metrics. That was the highest of any player projected in the lottery.       
Utah Jazz big man Rudy Gobert—who is also French—wasn't a fan. The center joked that "bust potential goes automatically up 50% when you're from Europe."                               


The 2017 NBA offseason has been wilder than most, and this past week had everything: Phil Jackson looked to trade away all the New York Knicks with talent, Danny Ainge gobbled up first-round picks like mini M&M's, the Cavs went rogue and hit the NBA draft GM-free, and so much more.
In this rapid-paced world of the modern NBA, it can be hard to keep up with everything at once. Here's what all went down this week, from the things that don't really matter to the ones that absolutely do.

Much like the generation of kids who only know Adam Sandler as the leading characters from Jack and Jill, there's an entire crop of NBA fans who only think of Dwight Howard as that dude who makes poop jokes at the dinner table and is a nonfactor on the court despite being built like an 18-wheeler.
How soon we forget, or choose to ignore, Howard's initial tenure with the Orlando Magic—specifically his 2009 Eastern Conference Finals performance against LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers. The dude averaged 25.8 points, 13.0 rebounds and 1.2 blocks per game in that series while shooting 65 percent from the field and 70 percent—yes, 70—from the free-throw line. That's outrageous.
Howard's career has plummeted since he awkwardly forced his way out of Orlando in the summer of 2012, so much so that his unexpected trade from the Atlanta Hawks to the Charlotte Hornets on Tuesday was met with a collective "uh, OK?"
NBA reporters cared so little about the move that one of them referred to Charlotte as the Bobcats and didn't even delete the tweet.
Howard isn't as bad as you think he is, despite the Hornets' being his fourth team in six seasons, but he’s having another rough summer. My man went on The Jump during the NBA Finals to announce he'd been honing his three-point shot, and the Atlanta Hawks were seemingly like, "Oh God! We've got to get rid of him immediately."
What once would have been considered a blockbuster is nothing more than a ripple in the news cycle.

Setting: conference room, near midnight. Houston Rockets GM Daryl Morey leans back in a large leather chair with the phrase "Live By the 3 or Die" engraved into the back. The phone rings. It's the Los Angeles Clippers on the other line.
"Hello? Yeah, you've got Daryl. Yes, I'd like your entire team. OK. Call me back and let me know."
Of all the rumors flying around NBA Twitter this week, the Houston Rockets' interest in seemingly every single free agent available is the most fun. The Rockets reportedly want Chris Paul, Blake Griffin, Kyle Lowry, Paul Millsap, both of Nikola Jokic's brothers, LeBron James Jr. and a lifetime supply of Laffy Taffy.
They will inevitably end up with none of these things, a la their pursuit of Chris Bosh a few years ago, and they will instead sign JJ Redick to a 10-year contract.

Boston Celtics general manager Danny Ainge has more first-round picks than artwork in his home. Boston currently owns seven first-rounders between now and 2019 after Ainge traded away the No. 1 pick in this year's draft to Philadelphia earlier this week.
Ainge has developed a bit of a reputation as a pick hoarder in recent years, refusing to part with any of them when the Celtics had a chance to trade for Paul George near the trade deadline last season. Philly turned the Celtics' No. 1 pick into Washington's Markelle Fultz, who most experts agree is the real deal.
If Fultz turns out to be a stud and the Celtics whiff on securing a superstar to push them into the stratosphere with the Cavs, Ainge's hoarding will be all for naught, and he would have handed a division rival the final piece to its superstar puzzle.

Joel Embiid has only been in the United States since he was 16, and he's already better at Twitter than 95 percent of its users. The 76ers big man strengthened his grip on the social media Hall of Fame when he used his Twitter fingers to both flame Phil Jackson and recruit Kristaps Porzingis to Philly in 140 characters:
"We don't care about Exit meetings in Philly... you're welcome to join"
If that wasn't enough, he went after the most famous basketball family of 2017 during their biggest moment. Responding to 76ers teammate Ben Simmons' writing "Crazy pills" while Lonzo and LaVar Ball were on screen during the NBA draft, Embiid wrote:
"Please dunk on him so hard that his daddy runs on the court to save him.."
Embiid should be allowed to tweet from the bench next season.
A photo posted by LeBron James (@kingjames)
In 2017, you can measure the importance of any single event in LeBron James' life by the pristineness of his ever-evolving hairline. If it's a Tuesday night during the regular season and the Cavs are taking on the Brooklyn Nets, LeBron's hairline usually looks like the middle of high tide, when you can still see slivers of the beach but most of it's gone.
LeBron doesn't care about that game. It's not on national television, and, well, it's the Nets.
But when LeBron deeply cares about something, like he did his acting debut in 2015's Trainwreck, his hairline is immaculate, as if we should be laughed at for thinking it was receding in the first place.
That's an exhausting balance to maintain, and a few days after losing to the Golden State Warriors in five games in the 2017 NBA Finals, LeBron finally said "enough" and shaved his head. In a video posted to his Instagram account, one of the first after lifting his "Zero Dark Thirty-23" social media blackout, LeBron can be found rocking out to Tee Grizzley in the weight room, his almost-bald noggin shining front and center.
LeBron hasn't joined the Bald Brotherhood quite yet—there are still some hair follicles kicking it up there—but he's closer to embracing it than ever before.

The man called his shot forever ago. His son is on the Los Angeles Lakers, and after the team traded D'Angelo Russell to the opposite end of the country, Lonzo Ball doesn't even have to worry about competition for the lead guard spot.
LaVar Ball went counter to every major sneaker company, created his own company and got possibly millions of dollars worth of free advertising this week. He made himself a household name, and his family name a brand name. He told his son to not work out for any team but the Lakers—shunning all 29 other teams—and guess what? Lonzo's on the Lakers.
Is LaVar Ball a genius? With the streak he's on, who among us is in a position to say he's not?

Things were all good just a week ago. Sure, the Cavs couldn't repeat as champs as Kevin Durant tore them limb from limb in the Finals, but it seemed like general manager David Griffin had a plan. Rumors started flying that Griffin was going to find a way to flip Kevin Love into Paul George or Jimmy Butler as the Cavs prepared to hit the Golden State Warriors with the ultimate countermove.
But Griffin's contract was set to expire in two weeks, and the architect behind the Cavs' championship roster in 2016 was being paid an embarrassingly low $2 million per year. Cavs owner Dan Gilbert, who apparently decided that squashing his beef with LeBron was the last good thing he ever wanted to do, didn't feel like spending any more coin on Griffin (the dude probably dreams of the luxury tax every night, he's so far up in it), so he let him walk, two days before the 2017 NBA draft.
Gilbert has reportedly offered the job to Chauncey Billups, but the former Detroit Pistons star has yet to accept the offer. That means the Cavs went without a general manager during the NBA draft.
LeBron is media subtweeting Gilbert over it, there are rumors that he'll bounce to L.A., Kyrie Irving is possibly eyeing an exit and our pets' heads are falling off! Who knew a team with such a talented roster and one year removed from a 'ship could still be in such disrepair?

Phil Jackson's reign as president of the New York Knicks has gone about as well as Theon Greyjoy's sacking of Winterfell. He won't let go of the triangle offense like some sort of jilted ex-lover. He's openly feuding with Carmelo Anthony. And now he seems hell-bent on shipping off the only good thing left in Madison Square Garden: Kristaps Porzingis.
Jackson lucked into the 7-foot Latvian in the 2015 NBA draft (Jackson told the New York Post a scout convinced him to draft Porzingis) and has been doing his best to alienate the future of the franchise ever since. With the Knicks in disarray after another, uh, "lackluster" season, Porzingis skipped his exit interview with Jackson, which Jackson apparently equates to someone slapping his mother. Now he's calmly and callously admitting the team could possibly trade what should be the cornerstone of the franchise.
"As much as we love this guy, we have to do what's best for our club," Jackson told MSG Networks this week with a straight face.
Knicks fans gotta take Jackson to an indoor zen garden and lock him in there forever before the Knicks are nothing but smoldering ash.

For all the rumors about Jimmy Butler ending up in Cleveland to play with LeBron James and Kyrie Irving, the Minnesota Timberwolves were always a dark horse for the star shooting guard's services. In the middle of the first round of the 2017 NBA draft, the dark horse won.
The Wolves sent Zach LaVine, Kris Dunn and the rights to Lauri Markkanen, who the Wolves took at No. 7, to Chicago for Butler and the 16th overall pick. Dunn struggled as a rookie, and LaVine is coming off ACL surgery. Meanwhile, Minnesota gets to pair a top-15 player with Karl-Anthony Towns, Andrew Wiggins and Ricky Rubio.
While we don't know how thrilled Butler is to reunite with Tom Thibodeau, who will almost certainly play him 47 minutes a night, we do know the Bulls got their lunch money taken. That's all you're getting for Jimmy Buckets? Woof.

NEW YORK — There was much adjusting of bowties during the first-ever NBA draft red carpet, as the next generation of star hoopers flooded the suddenly glamorous Barclays Center lobby on Thursday. For most of the young players, it was their first red carpet and thus first time dressing for public consumption, and overall, they did an outstanding job.
Just about everyone sported well-fitting suits in festive colors accessorized with I’m-about-to-get-paid smiles—but some had a little more swag than others. Go-to NBA outfitters Jhoanna Alba, Clarence Jones and, yes, J.C. Penney had a presence on the carpet, but it was the wild cards that kept things interesting.
So who looked the best? Check out B/R’s re-draft of the top 20 by style talent to find out which rookie literally looked like a No. 1 pick. Only 14 made the cut, making this B/R's style talent lottery picks. 

The Louboutin high tops and checked suit are both OK individually, but together they are a little confusing. Taking risks is good, but risks don’t always pay off.

The night’s only knit tie is an instructive addition. An underutilized red-carpet asset.

A little color, straightforward fit—Jackson looks great, but it’s missing that attention-grabbing oomph. Yes, we see the blinding Rolex.

Leather tie + sunglasses + Las Vegas-themed shoes and jacket lining = valiant fashion risk that comes across as mid-aughts indie band member. But the creativity shows promise!

A classic, well-fitted three-piece look. Not going to set the roof on fire, but Adebayo looks quite dapper.

“Not impressed by the bowtie, but I do give him kudos for trying,” says NFL and NBA stylist Dex Robinson (Kam Chancellor, Kyle Lowry, DeMarcus Cousins) of Fultz’s eclectic outfit—the bowtie is of a wicker-esque material, and his shoes are literally made of basketball leather. “The color palette and fit of this look doesn't work for me."
But literal basketball shoes! Bonus points for effort.

Another suit by CJ, another example of fun colors in Patton’s two favorites—orange and navy blue. “Gotta look pretty,” says Patton, who styled himself. A Cartier watch rounds out the look.

It’s a night to celebrate and have fun, and no player embodies that more than Mitchell—he integrated his school, Louisville, into his tie color, his shirt (which bore an embroidered logo) and his socks. Mitchell was dressed by CJ Custom Clothiers and says his grey pinstripe helps “bring out the inner baseball player.” The NBA is about personality, and Mitchell’s look shows that he has it in spades.

"I wish I could redo prom, because this would be my jacket—I love it!” Robinson says. It’s all about Smith’s bold, textured, double-breasted(!) coat, designed by Jhoanna Alba. “It was just super comfortable and fit my personality,” Smith adds. Can’t argue with that—plus, he says he could even play in it.

Monk was also dressed by J.C. Penney, but in blue—”I didn't want to go all Kentucky blue, but I had to represent a little bit here,” Monk says. “I tried to be different.” Louboutins complete the look (though he admits, there’s no way he could hit the hardwood in them). “This is most definitely in my top five tonight,” Robinson adds. “Not a lot of noise, but you can still hear what he is trying to say style-wise.”

TJ puts a colorful twist on a classic silhouette with his all-blue three-piece suit from Elevee. “It’s a little bold; I like it,” Leaf says. The perfect way for the UCLA player to step out of Lonzo’s shadow.

Red tartan is not a look for the faint of heart, but the NBA’s latest French import pulls it off with style—custom-made, naturally, in his native Strasbourg. “We tried to get something where the color was right for me,” Ntilikina says. The bowtie is patterned too, because go big or go home.

Dressed by J.C. Penney, Fox could have easily had a forgettable look. But the night’s only purple jacket and some flashy loafers keep him on the fashion forward side. "De’Aaron’s look is extremely balanced and well-executed,” Robinson says. “Kept it clean at top and added some excitement with the shoes!"

Yes, it’s a Big Baller Brand suit (spot the three Bs on the bowtie), and yes it’s all-black and shiny and three pieces on the first day of summer. But it fits like a glove, and Ball’s Versace loafers add the perfect amount of texture. “I keep it subtle, keep it simple,” Ball says. “My dad had no input—if he did, there would probably be Bs all over this, you know?”

Houston Rockets guards Patrick Beverley and Lou Williams have been named as trade pieces as the team looks to land a star, according to ESPN's Marc Stein:
Free Agency Scuttle: Houston is making Ryan Anderson/Lou Williams/Patrick Beverley available via trade to create summer spending flexibility
Chris Paul, Blake Griffin, Paul Millsap and Kyle Lowry ... four free agents Houston, according to league sources, plans to pursue in July,
Shortly after Stein tweeted about Houston's plans, Sweet Lou took to his Twitter account:
Uh Oh lol
Beverley did the same, reacting to Williams' tweet with what came across as sarcastic amusement (note the period; he means business):
Lol. s://t.co/XzO6Os0w0W
It must be strange for players to read about their futures at the same time fans do. Dwight Howard experienced that sensation Tuesday night as he was traded to Charlotte.
   
Ohio State Buckeyes fan Ty Higgins lives next to a big Michigan Wolverines fan who asked the OSU grad to watch over his place while he's away this week.
Higgins decided to "spruce it up a bit" by mowing a giant "Ohio" into the guy's lawn.
As noted by Evan Jankens of CBS Detroit, it's the same style that the Buckeyes band forms during games.
Here's hoping Higgins' neighbor is a good sport...and that he records his revenge.
[h/t CBS Detroit]
KD takes out a full page ad in the SF Chronicle to say Thank You. s://t.co/6MJse6vuCk
Just over a week after winning his first NBA title, Kevin Durant took out a full-page ad in the San Francisco Chronicle to thank the Golden State Warriors and their fans.
KD praised his Dubs teammates, coaches, ownership, staff, front office and fans "for making my initial season with the Warriors an incredible and exhilarating championship experience."
The 2017 Finals MVP plans to decline his player option for next season but will re-sign with Golden State, according to ESPN.com's Chris Haynes.
   
De'Aaron Fox's nickname, "@swipathefox," is inspired by his basketball skills...and Dora the Explorer. #NBADraft s://t.co/29RjMClOk8
De'Aaron Fox's nickname is "Swipa."
The connection—a nod to Swiper the Fox from the popular children's show Dora the Explorer—seemed too good to be true.
You know, this guy:
On Monday night, the NBA lottery-bound guard confirmed to Jeff Eisenband of ThePostGame that the origin of the moniker is, in fact, Nickelodeon.
Fox began by saying that when he was in fourth or fifth grade, he used to get a lot of on-ball steals (shocking, right?): "One of my friend's dad just started calling me Swipa—you know, Swiper the Fox from Dora," Fox continued. "It just kind of stuck. And I liked it, everybody likes the tag, so I just ran with it. And Swiper is probably trademarked, so I can't use that. ... Swipa's good for me."


Ahead of Wednesday's expansion draft, the NHL revealed new Adidas uniforms for all 31 teams, including the league's newest franchise, the Las Vegas Golden Knights.
Here's the big reveal:
Presenting the jersey for the @GoldenKnights! #FormTheFuture s://t.co/nJie3dRwRw
The franchise followed up with a closer look at both the home and away jerseys:
Both jerseys that we will wear in our inaugural season. #VGKFirstJersey s://t.co/NYj3zDQmdZ
And NHL provided an image of all 31 new shirts:
#FormTheFuture s://t.co/26KQ5FSUHq
Many of the changes aren't drastic, but fans seemed to take issue with the Nashville Predators' new look. Here's last year's shirt:

The New Jersey Devils, meanwhile, were quick to dismiss any criticism:
The Devils jerseys are so bad they had to update their bio 😂😂 #NotAFashionCompany s://t.co/PxThDpm8RW

A photo posted by therock (@therock)
Warning: NSFW language.
There's a reason they call him the People's Champ.
On Tuesday, one fan was so excited to see Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson stopped next to him at a red light that he hopped out of his truck to snap a selfie with the former WWE star-turned-actor.
It was a dangerous move, as the guy was standing next to oncoming traffic. The Rock appeared more than accommodating—and impressed with the dedication—but also seemed concerned for the fan's safety.
The man got back to his unmanned truck with (hopefully) the selfie of a lifetime.
[Instagram]
The 2017 #GlobiesDraft is complete!
🏀Rodney Pryor
🏀Aaron Judge
🏀Naz Mitrou-Long
🏀Gal Gadot
🏀A.J. Merriweather
🏀Tim Tebow s://t.co/qRxtMiKUBZ
On Tuesday, the Harlem Globetrotters held their 11th annual draft. While some of the names are unrealistic, five current members of the squad joined after getting picked in previous years.
Here's who the Globetrotters took:
Not to be outdone—though they usually are—the Washington Generals held their own draft. Theirs was a bit more wild.
Here's hoping none of the draftees turn down the invite. The world needs LaVar and McGregor on the same floor.

RIP Kawhi Leonard braids 1991-2017 s://t.co/VQ1jrWOAuQ
First, LeBron James shaved his head. Now, Kawhi Leonard's signature braids are gone.
This summer is weird.
On Tuesday, Comedy Central's Legends tweeted out a photo of the San Antonio Spurs superstar without his trademark hairstyle. It's unclear when the Claw donned the new 'do.

Perhaps it's an offseason look.
Leonard is basically a ghost on social media—he has four, count 'em, four tweets to his name—so he could've been doing this every summer all along.
Update: Wednesday, June 21 at 1 p.m. ET
According to the San Antonio Express-News' Jabari Young, the photo is fake.
"Just received a call from people close to Kawhi," Young tweeted. "Told me this photo is fake. So there's that."
Long live the braids.
---End of update---

A photo posted by FloCombat (@flocombat)
Josh Jones wastes no time once he steps into the Octagon.
During Saturday's NEF 29: Stars and Stripes event, the 28-year-old American knocked out Anthony Spires in four seconds. 
One…two…three…four. That's all it took.
UFC star Conor McGregor would be proud:
Jones moves to 2-0 after finishing his first bout in 20 seconds, according to FloCombat.com.
Let's see if he can move down to a second or two in his third fight.
[h/t FloCombat.com]


Apparently Dwight Howard doesn't follow Adrian Wojnarowski on Twitter. 
Minutes after The Vertical editor dropped a #WojBomb about D12 getting dealt to the Charlotte Hornets, the 7-footer posted his thoughts on the rampant Paul George trade rumors:
He has so many great options, tough 2 Call s://t.co/fnC87lmFSS
Sources: Charlotte is sending Miles Plumlee, Marco Belenelli and 41st pick to Atlanta for Dwight Howard and 31st pick.
Several Twitter users notified Howard he was on the move:
@DwightHoward What r ur thoughts on the Dwight Howard trade?
@DwightHoward You just got traded, dude. Thoughts?
@DwightHoward YOU JUST BEEN TRATED TO THE HORNETS LOL
@DwightHoward please tell me they informed you. And you didn't just find out right now
@DwightHoward  s://t.co/NtdrLEPKJU
Could the big fella have been trolling (albeit in a peculiar way)? Sure. But it seems as though the 31-year-old was oblivious to the transaction.

After making the rounds for his second championship parade on Wednesday, Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, hit up Delilah nightclub in Los Angeles.
Also in attendance were Drake’s dad, Dennis Graham, and Utah Jazz big man Rudy Gobert.
Graham said that Drizzy—who has been known to hang with Steph and Ayesha, sometimes after games—was in the building and rented out a private room.
Other Warriors, like Draymond Green, shipped off to Las Vegas.
[TMZ]

LeBron James' shaved head sent NBA fans into a frenzy on Thursday. Perhaps no one was affected more than Green Bay Packers tight end Martellus Bennett.
The former New England Patriot compared LBJ's baldness to a Pokemon evolution:
Lebron going bald is like Charmeleon evolving into Charizard.
Pikachu is still pikachu. When we know it should have been evolved to Raichu. s://t.co/aHvlRZVEt1
Pretty wild to think that the past three years haven't been LeBron's final form, at least in Bennett's mind.
After that analogy, though, the 30-year-old pass-catcher took a serious turn:
I feel like it's accepting oneself for who they are. Fighting it for so long holds you back. Letting it go and becoming is a huge step
Self acceptance is a sure way for elevation in ones life. When you can truly be yourself. that freedom allows you to go wherever you please
Not that Lebron didn't accept himself, just using this moment as a teaching opportunity. Lol
Anyways.... Charizard I choose you!!
Bennett finished his stream of consciousness by addressing his own hairline:
I see my hairline running away from my forehead everyday. It's only a matter of time before I will have to face the results of the race.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]

Damian Lillard has always been pretty candid on Twitter, but the Portland Trail Blazers point guard turned some heads when he tweeted about playing for two other teams on Wednesday.
Responding to a question about signing with a team other than Portland, the 26-year-old pointed to the Utah Jazz and Los Angeles Lakers:
@Dame_Lillard if you had the opportunity to sign with any team in the league today other than trailblazers what team would it be?
If blazers said they didn't want me... Utah Jazz or Lakers s://t.co/jep3V9qRsS
Lillard added an important qualifier: "If [the] Blazers said they didn't want me."
The two-time All-Star and 2013 NBA Rookie of the Year has spent all five of his professional seasons with Portland. He's under contract through 2020-21.

@OBJ_3 letting his cleats do the talking. Well done Kickasso s://t.co/MjDista9Uf
New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. attended his team's mandatory minicamp on Tuesday after holding out of voluntary OTAs.
He did so with a pair of anti-media cleats on his feet.
The 24-year-old faced backlash from Big Apple media outlets for skipping training camp, reportedly as a play for a new contract. OBJ didn’t spark any controversy at the microphone, but he fired back at critics with the custom Kickasso cleats.
Beckham actually practiced in them:


ESPN, the New York Daily News, TMZ and the New York Post were featured on the shoes, with red X's and "SHHHHH!!!" written over the names of the outlets. OBJ later deleted a picture he posted.
[Twitter, h/t Sporting News]

UPDATE (6/19/17): In the nine days since he released a video about his choice between keeping his athletic scholarship at UCF or continuing his YouTube channel, Donald De La Haye has heard from hundreds of supporters on social media. But the most meaningful message came from Oakland Raiders punter Marquette King. De La Haye says King called him "funny as hell" and told him not to let the NCAA hold him back.The message, De La Haye says, was one of several signs that prompted him to post a follow-up Sunday announcing his decision to continue making videos. Because he won't demonetize his channel, he will potentially be in violation of NCAA rules that disallow student-athletes from profiting from their names or athletic reputations."I'm just at peace right now," De La Haye says. "I've been struggling in making my decision, but I know where I stand now personally. I don't know where I stand with the NCAA, but that's okay. I'm happy with where I am."De La Haye says he hasn't spoken with anyone in UCF's compliance office about his decision, but he will continue producing videos two to three times a week until he is instructed to stop. And if he is eventually given an ultimatum, De La Haye says he would leave college football and train for the NFL while continuing to make YouTube videos. He hasn't considered taking any kind of legal action against the NCAA, but he says he won't be afraid to speak out publicly against the organization."If the NCAA goes against what I believe in, I will tell people how I feel," he says. "I'm not going to do it just to do it; I'll wait for my verdict. But if I need to state my opinion, I won't be afraid."
For most of his life, Donald De La Haye has found the most joy in two places: on the field and in front of a camera. And for most of his life, those two passions have lived in perfect harmony. But now he may be forced to make a choice.
On Friday, in a meeting with a UCF compliance officer, De La Haye learned that continuing to earn money off his popular YouTube channel could cost him his athletic scholarship and his place as a kicker on UCF's football team. According to NCAA bylaw 12.4.4, a student-athlete "may establish his or her own business, provided the student-athlete's name, photograph, appearance or athletics reputation are not used to promote the business." And more than half of De La Haye's "Deestroying" channel videos touch on the topics of kicking or campus life.
"It was surprising," De La Haye says. "I feel like I'm owned by the NCAA. They can use my name and my likeness to make money off of me, but I can't. I'm not out here selling autographs. I'm not boasting that I'm a UCF player. Any other YouTuber with the same amount of subscribers would make the same amount of money as me. It's a senseless rule, in my opinion, especially in the age of social media."

A native of Costa Rica, De La Haye traces his passion for creating videos to his father, with whom he shares a name. De La Haye Sr. was always armed with a video camera at every major family function, including all of his son's soccer games. And when the younger De La Haye turned 13, he decided to start making videos himself, at first recording and editing Call of Duty gameplay. In middle school, he and his best friends, Troy and Malik, would make sketches about life at school and in their neighborhoods.
When he arrived at UCF in 2015, he decided he wanted to create a library of his videos and watched as his number of subscribers—now more than 55,000—skyrocketed. When he realized he could earn extra income for his family back home through his channel, he started applying lessons he'd learn at school as a marketing major. Even after his marketing classes end each semester, he keeps his favorite textbooks to reference regularly.
A photo posted by Donald De La Haye (@deestroying)
"If anything, I feel like I should be rewarded for what I'm doing, not punished," he says. "I don't want to toot my own horn, but I feel like I have a talent. I try to inspire people and to bring smiles to their faces."
Although De La Haye declined to say how much money he had earned from his channel, a similarly sized YouTube channel could earn between a few hundred and a couple thousand dollars a month. De La Haye, who likely relies on per-stream royalties and appears to have no sponsors, may earn something in the neighborhood of $1 per 1,000 views. "I'm a child who cares about his family," he says. "I want to help out. I want to make things easier for them. This is how I have been able to do that. That's the most difficult part."
On Saturday, De La Haye posted an emotional plea on his channel after receiving the news. Since then, he says, he has barely slept and has had trouble focusing on his schoolwork as he wrestles with deciding what to do next.
On one hand, he feels he owes it to his family to complete his college degree. On the other hand, he believes he has more long-term potential to earn money from making videos than from playing football. (Last fall he appeared in every game, but solely as a kickoff specialist.) For now, he is hoping the school will help him apply for a waiver and that the NCAA will allow him to keep his scholarship—and his earnings. An NCAA spokeswoman told B/R on Tuesday that the organization hadn't received a waiver yet and wasn't currently reviewing the situation.
The NCAA is facing increasing legal and public perception pressure to allow student-athletes to earn income, particularly from their names and likenesses—a restriction that isn't applied to any other college students, even those on scholarships. On Friday, former UNLV basketball players Dylan and Dakota Gonzalez told Slam their decision to forgo their final year of eligibility to focus on their music careers was "90-95 percent" due to NCAA rules.
A photo posted by Donald De La Haye (@deestroying)
"Times are changing," De La Haye says. "If any other college kid wants to be an entrepreneur and take the things he's taught in the classroom and use them, they'd be praised for it. Why can't we? If all of us student-athletes come together and try for change, it will at least get looked at. It seems like the NCAA wins a lot of battles, but we have to at least try to create change."
De La Haye says he has received nothing but support from UCF staffers, coaches and teammates, but the school must tread carefully given that it only recently was taken off probation from a series of NCAA football and basketball sanctions issued in 2012.
"I love UCF," he says. "I'm blessed, and I know that. I just feel like it's unfair that I'm being treated differently as a student-athlete. For me to have to choose between two things that I love, for this to be happening to me—it's heartbreaking," he says. "I don't want anyone else to have to suffer through something like this."
The Michigan State Spartans will look different when they host their in-state rival, the Western Michigan Broncos, on Sept. 9.
Mark Dantonio’s squad will go with an all-white look using new helmets.
Here are some pictures posted on Wednesday:
#AllWhiteEverything 9-9-17 s://t.co/0XFTqp5uM9
#AllWhiteEverything 9-9-17 s://t.co/wUGq97NasQ
Props for using Jeezy in the teaser above.
[Twitter, Facebook]

Whenever he played the Oklahoma City Thunder during his time on the Los Angeles Clippers, forward Matt Barnes got in Kevin Durant's ear.
Here’s what Sports Illustrated’s Lee Jenkins wrote about Barnes and his eventual Golden State Warriors teammate:
"'The only person in the world who can stop you,' Barnes crowed, 'is your teammate.' The most effective trash talk, Barnes has discovered in more than a decade of NBA rabble-rousing, is the kind spiked with the smallest shred of truth."
Barnes, of course, was referring to OKC star Russell Westbrook.

Could the constant prodding about his shot-happy point guard have pushed KD over the top last summer? Perhaps it played a role. But winning a title seemed to be more at the forefront of Durant's mind.
[h/t Sports Illustrated]

After hammering a two-run home run to center field against the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday night at Progressive Field, Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig didn't flip his bat.
He flipped the bird.
While jogging back into the Dodgers dugout, the 26-year-old taunted some heckler near the on-deck circle with a pair of middle fingers. He didn't even break stride. You can watch the home run here.
Somewhere, under that mask, Mr. Met is smiling.
Update: Tuesday, June 13, at 11:15 p.m. ET
Puig seemed unbothered about the incident after the game. He told reporters he reacted with the gesture after getting heckled:
Yasiel Puig said he was getting heckled. "I reacted that way," he said. "I stooped to their level."
He added that his teammates got a kick out of the move:
Yasiel Puig said he'll pay a fine if he has to. His teammates found this whole thing hilarious.
—End of update—
[MLB]
The 2016-17 #ShaqtinMVP is... Russell Westbrook!!! 🏆 s://t.co/VDPj7dBNDK
Russell Westbrook could make history with two MVPs in the same season: the real one and the not-so-coveted Shaqtin' A Fool award.
The Oklahoma City Thunder star beat out Dwight Howard, Marcus Smart and Zaza Pachulia in a fan vote for the title.
Shaqtin' star Shaquille O'Neal gives out the "honor" each year for the player with the most—or funniest—blunders. And despite a historic 2016-17 campaign from Russ, there was no shortage of hilarious moments.
His marathon travel against the Golden State Warriors made the lowlight reel:
The All-Star point guard joins past recipients JaVale McGee (the only two-time winner), Kendrick Perkins, Otto Porter Jr. and James Harden.
[Twitter, YouTube]

A day after losing to the Golden State Warriors in the 2017 NBA Finals, Cleveland Cavaliers guard JR Smith is looking for reinforcements.
The enigmatic 31-year-old liked an Instagram picture that featured Carmelo Anthony, his friend and former teammate, edited into a Cavs jersey alongside LeBron James.                
Anthony, who's under contract with the New York Knicks through 2018-19, is one of three NBA players with no-trade clauses.
Smith was electric in Game 5 at Oracle Arena on Monday night, netting 25 points and going 7-of-8 from beyond the arc.                    
[h/t @president_dope]
Noah Westbrook, like father like son. #ThunderUp s://t.co/7YKeMyirOn
On Tuesday afternoon, Oklahoma City Thunder superstar Russell Westbrook gave his fans a first look at his nearly one-month-old son, Noah, and the little guy bears a striking resemblance to his father, mean mug and all.
 Westbrook had previously announced Noah's birth May 16:
A photo posted by Russell Westbrook (@russwest44)
Up The Thunder thought the family resemblance could bode well for Noah's basketball prospects:                      
Not saying Russell Westbrook's son will turn out exactly like Russ, I'm just saying we should probably go ahead and get him under contract. s://t.co/oma5h7mZ91
Noah even seems to furrow his brow just like Russ: 
Westbrook's baby son looks JUST like him. s://t.co/3VqiD5HlB1
It's surely only a matter of time before Westbrook's firstborn starts racking up triple-doubles on a Little Tikes hoop.                                         

🔏🗒 s://t.co/v4rkc0NqaS
Craig Sager Jr. recently got some new ink in honor of his late father.
The 28-year-old showed off the inner bicep tattoo Tuesday. It was a sound wave of a line from Craig Sager's acceptance speech for the Jimmy V Award for Perseverance at the 2016 ESPY Awards:
"Time is simply how you live your life."
WATCH: "Time is simply how you live your life." - Craig Sager #ESPYS s://t.co/S1l3rLABU6
Craig Sager died Dec. 15 after dealing with acute myeloid leukemia since 2014.
Props to his son for the creative memorial.

Pete Van Vleet lets his children pick their own favorite teams.
After his daughter, Madeline, chose the Detroit Tigers—because they're fierce—a few seasons ago, Van Vleet reached out to all 30 MLB teams about winning the fanhood of Jack, his infant son. 
Van Vleet told PBS NewsHour's Julia Griffin that 13 have responded. Among those trying to win Jack's support:
The first step in Jack's choice is crucial: learning to walk and talk.
After that, it's anyone's game—though Houston will surely get a boost because it's his dad's team.
[PBS]

Kenneth Udjus, a goalkeeper for Norwegian soccer team Asker, was devastated after a slide tackle gone wrong broke the left leg of KFUM's Yassin Rfiffi.
"It's as bad as it gets. It was painful to watch," Udjus told Norwegian TV (via Deadspin). "I have not seen the video of the incident, but it was a shock. I'm very, very sorry now. … Of course I had no bad intentions."
Intentional or not, the crushing tackle resulted in a fibula broken in two places for Rfiffi, who suffered more pain than a guilty conscience. 
Here's the video. Don't watch if you're squeamish:  
[h/t Deadspin] 
LAMENTABLE: Lluvia de bengalas y petardos de los aficionados del Olympiacos en la final de la Liga griega de basket. s://t.co/Gv4AQcdqMc
Sunday marked the conclusion of the Greek Basket League as Panathinaikos defeated Olympiacos, 66-51, in Game 5 of the best-of-five league finals to win the series.
Panathinaikos held a comfortable lead near the two-minute mark in the fourth quarter when Olympiacos fans starting throwing flares and firecrackers. 
One hit the Panathinaikos bench, according to the Associated Press (via the Washington Post), and the game was delayed for 25 minutes. 
Madness, pandemonium and insanity. Actually, this is just the norm for a road victory that ends an Olympiacos-Panathinaikos series. s://t.co/izuPrxQrvA
The game resumed after all Olympiacos fans cleared out. 
Former Memphis Grizzlies guard Nick Calathes scored 12 points in the win. 
[Twitter, h/t theScore] 

Nose tackle Dontari Poe's one-year contract with his new team, the Atlanta Falcons, contains weight incentives. Pro Football Talk's Mike Florio reported March 18 that the 26-year-old could make an additional $500,000 if he consistently meets his goals.
On Monday, ESPN.com's Field Yates reported that if the scale reads 340 on Tuesday, Poe will get a $125,000 boost:
Another notable weigh-in this week: if Falcons NT Dontari Poe weighs 340 pounds or less tomorrow, he earns $125,000. s://t.co/58AkLzWM4H
This isn't an uncommon practice. Yates' report came in response to a similar note from Adam Schefter on Seattle Seahawks running back Eddie Lacy.
Seahawks' RB Eddie Lacy has his second Seattle weigh-in today. If he weighs 250 pounds or less - cha-ching: $55,000. That's a lot of pizza.
Poe, who is listed at 346 pounds, told ESPN.com's Vaughn McClure on June 1 that he isn't sweating the weigh-ins.
"Oh, it's pretty smooth," Poe said. "I'm pretty much where I need to be. So as long as I keep doing that, I'll be all right.''

Forgive them for they know not what they do to the internet s://t.co/PhPgOrFTfk
The Boston Celtics want Gordon Hayward.
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported May 18 that Celtics general manager Danny Ainge and Co. are "really focused on trying to get" the Utah Jazz free agent this summer. Chris Mannix, Woj's colleague at The Vertical, later reported that he believes the All-Star forward is Boston's "No. 1 target."
On Sunday, Hayward's wife, Robyn, posted a picture of their young daughter wearing a shirt featuring a four-leaf clover and the words "Go Green." She deleted the picture.
It might be a stretch to take this as a sign that Hayward is heading for Boston. But Robyn also hashtagged, "She's a fireball."
Fireball...fire...Heat...Miami?
The saga continues.

Nashville fan absolutely unloads on Mike Milbury in a profanity laced on air rant s://t.co/Dta8u4gPCc
Warning: NSFW language.  
NBC analyst Mike Milbury is no friend of Nashville Predators fans. 
As frustration bubbled over after watching the Pittsburgh Penguins win their second Stanley Cup Final in a row Sunday, one Preds supporter ripped into Milbury.
Milbury said after Game 5 that P.K. Subban "had it coming" when Sidney Crosby bashed his head on the ice:
Mike Milbury actually said Subban "had it coming" when Crosby repeatedly smashed his head into the ice. #hottake
I try to stay out of things that seem to be really stupid. But Mike Milbury has a serious beef with PK Subban.
"Get the f--k out of Nashville!" the fan ranted off-camera during a live postgame broadcast. "F--k you." 
Milbury and the crew tried to play it off, but the fan was so furious and loud that they had to acknowledge it.
[Twitter, h/t The Big Lead]  
Fans have started to eat catfish in celebration of the @penguins winning their second straight #StanleyCup @PittsburghPG @PGVisuals #Pens s://t.co/HerR2d65DA
The Pittsburgh Penguins completed back-to-back championships with a 2-0 win over the Nashville Predators on Sunday in Game 6 of the Stanley Cup Final.
Afterward, Penguins fans took to the streets and celebrated. That's where several started eating raw catfish, which has become a Predators symbol. 
It's not quite NSFW, but be warned: This is gross. 
This guy took a bite out of a raw catfish after @penguins beat @PredsNHL to win Stanley Cup. Photo by @RussBurgh. s://t.co/Fg5QiTD0YA
I heard it's because of the cup #Pittsburgh #Penguins #StanleyCup #Catfish #Yinzer #SouthSide s://t.co/4UyX4BOyHg
@PittsburghPG s://t.co/wZmagpi0nR
[Twitter, h/t For The Win] 
We’ve all seen, been in or heard of barbershop debates. But getting a fly-on-the-wall view of NBA rivals in this environment is a new sensation.
On Friday, Uninterrupted published "The Shop," which featured LeBron James, Draymond Green, Charles Oakley, Maverick Carter, Rich Paul and rapper 2 Chainz.
They got fresh buzzes, and many, including James, sipped wine while the barbers worked.

The group talked about last year’s NBA Finals, football players not playing defense, Mike Krzyzewski and LBJ’s 2014 return to Cleveland.
Spoiler alert: The King’s mom, Gloria James, was not in favor of it due to owner Dan Gilbert’s controversial letter and the fanbase's reaction.
"My mom was like, 'F--k that, we ain’t going back,'" James told everyone. "… 'You go back, I’m not going back with you. I’m staying in Miami.'"
[Uninterrupted]
Steve Kerr sarcastically responds to former players who say they'd beat these Warriors: "The guys in the 50s would've destroyed everybody" s://t.co/L4A3BKuaZL
Year after year, past NBA greats make the claim that their old team would beat today's juggernaut, the Golden State Warriors.
When asked about the evergreen trend on Friday, coach Steve Kerr got sarcastic.
"They're all right, they would all kill us," Kerr deadpanned. "The game gets worse as time goes on. Players are less talented than they used to be. The guys in the '50s would've destroyed everybody."
The Warriors are leading the Cleveland Cavaliers 3-0 in the NBA Finals ahead of Friday night's Game 4.

An @NFL Elite Running Back, @DeAngeloRB came to #Nashville today &amp; stopped by #IMPACTWrestling HQ. Why was DeAngelo in Nashville? @ESPN s://t.co/Yy8io3vINl
While free-agent running back DeAngelo Williams searches for a new team, he's reportedly going to dabble in another contact sport: pro wrestling.
On Monday, the former Pittsburgh Steelers rusher teased a return to Impact Wrestling, formerly known as TNA.
According to Dave Meltzer of the Wrestling Observer Newsletter (h/t CBSSports.com's Brian Campbell), Williams is going to compete in a tag team match at the Slammiversary XV pay-per-view event on July 2.
Meltzer reported the 34-year-old will wrestle alongside Moose, a former NFL offensive lineman who was rescued by Williams and NFL tight end Gary Barnidge in a previous storyline.
[Twitter, h/t CBSSports.com]

Call James Comey the "Ultimate" insider.
The man who may hold the fate of President Donald Trump in his hands also played Ultimate Frisbee, along with intramural basketball and football, while in college at William and Mary.
Once the former FBI Director is through testifying before Congress about potential Russian collusion with the Trump campaign, Comey could choose to pursue a second career on the Ultimate pitch.

At 56, he's too old to strut his stuff in college (where the USA Ultimate Division 1 finals were recently shown on ESPNU) or professional Ultimate (where ESPN regularly puts plays from the American Ultimate Disc League on its Top 10). But there is a division in which Comey could showcase his Frisbee skills: USA Ultimate now features a Great Grand Masters division for players over 50.
"He's tall," says Matt Jefferson, who won several national championships with the New York, New York, Ultimate dynasty in the late 1980s and early '90s and helped co-found the Great Grand Masters division.
"All I'm thinking is, at 6'8" we'd put out the welcome mat for him. We'd have to have an initiation. He'd have to drink a disc of beer and swear an oath of loyalty to us."
Ultimate, which combines elements of football, basketball and soccer, was recognized by the International Olympics Committee in 2015. There's hope the sport could debut in the Olympics as early as 2024.
If there's ever a Great Grand Masters division in the Olympics, who knows? Comey could have a second act competing on the international sports stage.
"He would be our end-zone weapon," Jefferson says. "We would just loft passes up to James, who would be able to rise above the others and score point after point.
"On defense he could go into stealth mode, luring our opponent to throw passes to the end zone where James would be lurking to swat away, towering over most players. In addition, with his espionage and investigative expertise, he could uncover our opponent's strategies no matter how they encrypt them."

"In fact, our playbook is tailor-made for him, as we have three end-zone plays that we call FBI, CIA and KGB. He'll have no problem keeping them straight."
Jefferson adds, "In order to make the team, however, Mr. Comey would have to agree to a set of rules and would have to take an oath of loyalty to the team."
Those rules include:
1. Apologize to the great Fairfield/Westchester icon Martha Stewart for locking her up not for insider trading but for a simple little lie.
2. Now that he is no longer a registered Republican, he must remain apolitical as politics and Frisbee don't mix.
3. Sportsmanship and honor are far greater than winning. The spirit of the game must remain intact and you must play fair.
4. No leaking of information outside of the team.
5. Remember, love trumps hate.
Whether Comey D-blocks Trump in his testimony remains to be seen, but the Ultimate insider may have a second act ahead.
Across an Ultimate career that has spanned 30 years, Adam Zagoria has competed in College, Open, Mixed, Masters and Grandmasters Nationals. In 2013, he captained the Westchester Ultimate Summer League championship Gold team. His team also won the WSL title in 2011. Zagoria is the co-author, along with Tony Leonardo, of “ULTIMATE – The First Four Decades.” You can follow him on Twitter at @adamzagoria
LintBron James. She said she made this out of 30 pounds of dryer lint. s://t.co/brkeeITHYn
This Cleveland Cavaliers fan doesn't need a jersey, hat or even a tattoo to prove her allegiance to LeBron James.
All she needed was dryer lint—30 pounds of it.
ESPN.com's J.A. Adande ran into the Cavs fan in Cleveland on Wednesday ahead of the team's first home game of this year's NBA Finals. He dubbed it "LintBron."
The fan appears to be artist Sandy Buffie, aka "The Lint Lady," who made a similar sculpture last summer. That one featured a headband on the King:
Take a selfie with LeBRON dryer lint sculpture in 5th street arcades Cleveland #ALLin216  #ThisisCLE  #LebronJames s://t.co/BBApHQmUOr
Game 3 tips off at 9 p.m. ET. 
  

It's unlikely Steph Curry will be hitting any fast food joints during the NBA Finals. But if he does, Wendy's is off the list.
On Tuesday, the popular restaurant burned the Golden State Warriors superstar with a "blew a 3-1 lead" joke using its "4 for $4" meal promotion.
It all started when Davey Hudson, a producer at Fox Sports Knoxville, wrote about meeting a Curry impostor at one of the chains: 
Knoxville is so blessed...

(Per: @Davey_Hudson) s://t.co/HcNckmaigs
Hudson tagged the Wendy's page, and then...boom: 
@Davey_Hudson He gets a 4 for $4 and eats one item
4 - 1 is 3....
Warriors blew a 3-1 lead in the finals.
Golden State leads the Cleveland Cavaliers 2-0 heading into Wednesday night's Game 3. 

Dirk had to pull out some tricks to win the 6-year-old division of knockout. s://t.co/XZxQpqjz1b
The Dallas Mavericks ranked dead last in points per game this season. Maybe they should take a look at a few kids from Dirk Nowitzki's basketball camp.
The 7-footer engaged in several games of knockout with the campers Tuesday. In a video captured by ESPN.com's Tim MacMahon, a six-year-old goes toe-to-toe with the big fella for over two minutes.
Another camper battled Dirk from high school three-point range.
Intense final round of knockout with the campers! s://t.co/FEAUhULyRk
These young kids could play. 
Of course, Nowitzki was a good sport and clearly wasn't playing like an NBA title was on the line—though he did win both times. 
[Twitter, h/t For The Win] 
First pitch @johnlegend? Nope daughter Luna gets the honor. @Mariners @robinsoncano there at the dish. s://t.co/pjRmANKKH3
Singer John Legend and model Chrissy Teigen were on hand for Tuesday night's Seattle Mariners game—but neither threw out the first pitch.
Instead, the couple's one-year-old daughter, Luna, fired a heater to second baseman Robinson Cano.
Legend was performing in the Seattle area, so Mariners senior marketing manager Camden Finney on Saturday offered Teigen the first pitch:
@Mariners @chrissyteigen We have front row Diamond Club tickets for you Tuesday night....and any interest in throwing out the first pitch?!
@CamdenFinney @Mariners oh great they didn't go through. anyhow i said i've done it before and i wanted to cry i was so scared - i will do ANYTHING else
@CamdenFinney @Mariners ....can i be the umpire
When they decided Luna would get the honor, the baby girl started practicing:
She's practicing @mariners! She might need to throw it behind her back at this rate s://t.co/fLPniDqoXt
Here's a snapshot of the family at Safeco Field:
A photo posted by John Legend (@johnlegend)
Aw.
[Twitter, Instagram, h/t For The Win]    
That’s THREE thus far, Scooter. s://t.co/z5IckrFZXa
Cincinnati Reds utility man Scooter Gennett was locked in Tuesday night.
Through eight innings against the St. Louis Cardinals, the 27-year-old bombed four home runs—including a towering grand slam—and recorded 10 RBI in a 13-1 game.
Got a fastball? Crush a fastball. s://t.co/oX93YjltJs #PapaSlam s://t.co/z56aCipBfq
Here's his fourth big fly:
There were 16. You can add one to that list.

@SGennett2 is the 17th player EVER to hit four homers in a game: s://t.co/Z4a8opJNkz s://t.co/Fvk0qWZ1wX
Prior to Tuesday, Gennett had smashed just three dingers all season. He entered the game in a 1-for-20 slump.
Scooter Gennett is a 3-run homer away from the homer cycle
Yesterday Scooter Gennett was 0-for-19. Since then he is 6-for-6 with a double, 4 HR and 12 RBI.
He's in good company:
Scooter Gennett with 3 HRs and 8 RBI, the first #Reds player to have 8 RBI in game since Ken Griffey Jr. in 2000; and should get 1 more AB.
Reds LF with a 7-RBI game

Frank Robinson
Johnny Bench (normally a C)
George Foster
Scooter Gennett


Buffalo Bills cornerback Shareece Wright went to great lengths to make it to an optional workout with his new team Tuesday.
According to a late-night tweet from his agent, Tamerat Berhe, Wright took an eight-hour Uber ride from Chicago to Buffalo, New York, for the voluntary practice:
Who takes an 8 hour @Uber from Chicago to Buffalo to make a voluntary @buffalobills practice? @ShareeceWright did, wild story. 🙌🏾
SB Nation's Jeanna Thomas obtained the receipt from the 542.9-mile voyage, and it cost $632.08.
Again, this was a voluntary practice.
Wright spent the last two seasons with the Baltimore Ravens before being cut in March. It's safe to say he set the tone for his new team.
UPDATE: Thursday, June 8 at 1 p.m. ET
According to the Washington Post's Marissa Payne (h/t ESPN.com), Uber driver Hadi Abdollahian had a different destination in mind when picking up Wright.  
“He told me Buffalo and I thought he meant Buffalo [Wild Wings] grill,” Abdollahian said “So I said, ‘Yeah, for sure.’”
Nevertheless, the 26-year-old—a refugee who came to Chicago from Turkey four years ago—agreed to the longer journey.
“I promised him on the phone," Abdollahian told Payne, "so I said, ‘let’s hit the road.’ ”
Payne added that BlueRock Energy, sponsored by the Bills, matched Wright's $932.08 fare to thank Abdollahian.

True game never fades. A look at New Edition's @BaronDavis mixing 'em up and setting the table at #thedrew on Saturday. s://t.co/HkbLr2JMmk
Baron Davis still has it.
Over the weekend, the 38-year-old point guard put on a show in the Drew League. His bounce is gone—we still remember, though, Andrei Kirilenko—but Davis, who last played for the New York Knicks in 2011-12, manipulated defenders with a still-strong handle and crafty passing.
B-Diddy played briefly in the NBA D-League last season. It appears he's still open to a comeback.

Hawks center Dwight Howard says he's "working hard" on his 3-point game to extend career. He's 5-of-56 from 3-point range in his career. s://t.co/FzJx9BOcsJ
For 13 seasons, Dwight Howard has been an old-school big man.
During a Tuesday afternoon appearance on ESPN's The Jump, though, the Atlanta Hawks center made it clear he wants to join unicorns like Kristaps Porzingis, Brook Lopez and Karl-Anthony Towns as a 7-footer who can stroke it from deep.
"This summer, I've been working a lot," Howard said. "... I have this guy in Atlanta I've been working with. I've been working on my threes, really trying to add some range to my game, which is gonna be weird for people to see. They're used to seeing me in the paint, battling. But in order for me to play longer, I have to expand my game."
As noted by Sporting News' Jordan Heck, the longball has always eluded D-12. He's 5-of-56 from beyond the arc in his career and hasn't made a triple since 2014-15. Since then, Howard is 0-of-8.
Per NBA.com, the 31-year-old took 506 of his 613 field-goal attempts in 2016-17 from within five feet of the cup. Adding a three-ball would be a drastic change.

#GottaSeeIt: @PKSubban1 arrived at Bridgestone Arena with a bag FULL of mouthwash. Sidney Crosby can breathe easy now. s://t.co/J7Mwh70aJo
In Game 3 of the Stanley Cup Final over the weekend, Nashville Predators defenseman P.K. Subban and Pittsburgh Penguins star Sidney Crosby exchanged some words.
According to Subban, Crosby told him he has bad breath: 
Crosby and @PKSubban1 exchanged words and bad breath following Game 3 😂😂😂 s://t.co/IEvXwZSVhv
Ahead of Game 4 on Monday, Subban arrived at Bridgestone Arena with a big ol' bag of mouthwash. 
For what it's worth, Crosby denied he ever mentioned Subban's dental hygiene. 
 

Golfer Michael Buttacavoli was forced to withdraw from a U.S. Open sectional qualifier Sunday after American Airlines lost his clubs.
The 29-year-old was coming from Ecuador to Miami, according to Golf Wire (h/t Golf.com). He tweeted his frustration at the airline, but it didn't change anything. Buttacavoli missed his 7:26 a.m. tee time Monday.
Thank u @AmericanAir. 1 golf bag w/ priority tags on plane &amp; the only bag u can't find. Unfortunately have to WD from @usopengolf sectionals
@mbutta326 We want to reunite you as quickly as possible. Please verify your bag tag number via DM.
@AmericanAir Already filed a missing bag report. It's too late. I already withdrew. You just needed to do your job in the first place.
@AmericanAir Priority tags r meaningless. Told u 100 times. Stop apologizing. Don't need sympathy or u to be PC. Just do better. U have yet to show that
Buttacavoli plays on the PGA Tour Latinoamerica.
"It's a challenge enough to qualify with your own golf clubs," Buttacavoli said, per Golf Wire. "I have a lot of confidence in my abilities, but that's not giving enough credit to the rest of the guys in the field."
[Twitter, h/t Yahoo Sports]
A photo posted by Ryan Kalil (@ryankalil67)
Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton turned 28 on May 11, and to celebrate, he shared a glamorous music video with his 3.8 million Instagram followers.
Apparently, Newton didn't invite his teammates. 
Center Ryan Kalil uploaded his own video Monday, and it perfectly parodied the post from the 2015 MVP. Tight end Greg Olsen and other teammates joined in, mimicking Newton's poses and activities. 
"Cam forgot to invite us to his birthday getaway, so we didn't invite him on our camping trip," Kalil wrote, adding the hashtag, "We had more fun." 
[Instagram] 
Detroit Pistons star big man Andre Drummond teamed up with NBA veteran Caron Butler against Indiana Pacers guard Glenn Robinson III and analyst Jalen Rose for a quiz show on Jimmy Kimmel Live on Sunday night.
It did not go well.
Team UConn failed to log any correct answers; Team Michigan strung a few together after a rough start. In fairness to all four players, though, most people would fail to correctly identify what an Oedipal complex is.
"I know the chancellors at your respective universities are deeply ashamed right now," Kimmel joked. 
Drummond was prepared for that one. 
"Wait, I gotta say something," Drummond said. "I went to school for six months, so they shouldn't."
[Jimmy Kimmel Live] 
Steph's sleep s://t.co/IjjVHnVjSZ
Dropping 32 points and a triple-double has a way of tiring a man out. 
With 10 minutes to go in Game 2 of the NBA Finals on Sunday and his Golden State Warriors up 104-92 on the Cleveland Cavaliers, superstar point guard Stephen Curry threw a towel over his head and relaxed.
Though the game eventually became a 132-113 blowout, many fans on Twitter found Curry's snooze to be disrespectful: 
Steph took a power nap in the fourth. Deadass laid down and threw a towel on his face he knew it was over lmao.
"Why do you hate steph curry?" s://t.co/BO1NyHHUmZ
Steph Curry sleeping on the bench during a finals game is the most disrespectful thing i've seen in a finals series lol
Steph Curry laying on the sideline w a towel not watching the game, who the hell does he think he is? So disrespectful and can't stand him
Steph Curry on the bench sleeping. Warriors the most disrespectful team of all time.
I'm not even a Cavs fan but I'm still tight Steph was taking a nap on the bench while blowing the Cavs out by 20 smh disrespectful s://t.co/SAAWYmWd7X
LeBron carrying the weight of 10 elephants on his shoulders and Steph taking a nap on the sideline. Probably got cucumbers on his eyes
Game 3 is Wednesday at Quicken Loans Arena. Steph should be well rested.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win] 
LeSean McCoy bet $200,000 on Warriors to win Finals. It's largest bet Planet Hollywood took on Finals. Would pay $62,500. h/t @RomanEdmond1 s://t.co/C34zSQQxEI
Buffalo Bills running back LeSean McCoy is a big spender.
Before Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Thursday, Shady placed a $200,000 bet on the Golden State Warriors to defeat the Cleveland Cavaliers in the series. The 28-year-old rusher will take home $62,500 if the Dubs win.
According to David Payne Purdum of ESPN Chalk, it was the largest bet Planet Hollywood received on the Finals. Purdum also noted McCoy didn't break any league rules with the wager:
NFL players are permitted to bet on other team sports, per league gambling policy.
The Dubs blew out Cleveland 113-91 in Game 1. Game 2 is Sunday at 8 p.m. ET.

Gronk with the INT and the spike at the wedding tonight @barstoolsports s://t.co/NHft5FbUNz
The Gronk Spike knows no offseason.
While attending a wedding Saturday, New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski intercepted a bouquet and slammed the flowers on the dance floor as if he just scored a game-winning touchdown.
Nobody seemed to mind. Classic Gronk.
    
Note: Comments begin at 13:15 and include NSFW language.
After defeating Jose Aldo to become the UFC's undisputed featherweight champion Saturday night, Max Holloway addressed Conor McGregor, the division's former champion.
The 25-year-old lost to the Irishman by unanimous decision in August 2013. McGregor later won the featherweight and lightweight straps, becoming the first UFC fighter to hold two belts simultaneously.
"That guy was the 2015 champ," Holloway said. "He can go run around wherever he's at with the belt and celebrate, because guess what—you can't take it away from him. This is called the year 2017 right now ... and I'm the champ. If he wants to come back down, he can come and get it."
As Holloway alluded to, McGregor called himself the "champ champ" before he was stripped of the featherweight belt two weeks after he knocked out Eddie Alvarez in November.
The champ champ s://t.co/iprUKL0Ldx
Now, McGregor is reportedly working on a deal to box Floyd Mayweather Jr.
"I ain't gonna chase someone around. I ain't gonna talk about someone who's not talking about me," Holloway said of McGregor. "He gets to choose his fights. Why am I gonna cry and beg him to fight me? Get the hell out of here with that s--t. You can beg to fight me now."
Though UFC media and fans would surely love to see a rematch between Holloway and McGregor, it's unclear if The Notorious will ever fight at 145 pounds again:
Can't help but feel like UFC brass are happy. Yes, Holloway lost to McGregor moons ago, but this freshens things up in a big way @ 145.
Max Holloway is a serious problem for anybody at 145 pounds. The McGregor rematch is so so good! Max vs Frankie in NYC???
I'd give anything to watch Conor McGregor vs. Max Holloway 2. Since losing to McGregor, Holloway has been on a tear. Gone through everyone.
The amount of people who actually think Conor McGregor gives a shit about fighting Holloway is startling. Not happening.
So McGregor has wins over Aldo and Holloway...if you actually thought he was ever dropping back to 145, put those thoughts to bed #UFC212
Regardless, Holloway has made his stance clear.
"Come try to take over my village; off with your head," he said, perhaps referencing McGregor's comments to Aldo in 2015. "... I got my throne. If you want it, come see me."
[YouTube, Twitter]
What is happening to Klay 😂 s://t.co/DpNel9JzvA
Golden State Warriors star Klay Thompson wasn't satisfied with the connection during a media call Friday.
"Hello?" the shooting guard asked as he banged the microphone. "Anybody there?"
The reporter's voice on the other line came in and out, but the question wasn't transferred cleanly enough for the 27-year-old to answer. 
Thompson, who struggled with his shot in the Warriors' Game 1 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers—six points on 3-of-16 shooting—praised teammate Kevin Durant during the conference call: 
Klay Thompson on having Kevin Durant: "Last year's playoffs felt like a war every game. This year we're 13–0." s://t.co/QvR8sjIhmg
 
Game 1 s://t.co/i5SKu9LZPt
Los Angeles Rams defensive coordinator Wade Phillips watched the NBA Finals on Thursday night. He shared his thoughts in Bitmojis.
The 69-year-old kept it simple with his initial post. "We got this," his virtual self said in a Golden State Warriors jersey.
On Friday, Phillips clarified he's still a Los Angeles Lakers fan, and ball is still life:
I still love the Lakers s://t.co/nyZzvZ8sm2
The Rams assistant seems to have recently downloaded the Bitmoji app, as he also tweeted about his new book, Son of Bum, on Thursday:
Son of Bum book sales! s://t.co/0V1ktKxxE4

Comedian Kevin Hart has become a fixture at NBA games and events. 
He's constantly courtside, especially for his hometown Philadelphia 76ers, and is an NBA All-Star Weekend legend—four-time Celebrity Game MVP, people. On Thursday, the 37-year-old talked to Jimmy Kimmel about why he goes to so many games.
"I talk a lot of trash. That's why I go," Hart said. "I go there to sit courtside to mess with the players. That's literally all I go for."
Hart said sometimes he throws back one too many drinks and starts slurring his words. He also told Kimmel about a time he heckled Houston Rockets superstar James Harden into an offensive eruption against his Sixers. 

Apparently the Beard went back at Hart verbally—and then with his play.
"Tell your team what you did to 'em," Hart, who was there with rapper Meek Mill, recalled Harden telling him as the clock wound down.
The Rockets won 123-118 as Harden dropped 51 points to go with 13 rebounds and 13 assists. Hart crashed his interview afterward: 
[Jimmy Kimmel Live, YouTube] 
A photo posted by Sports Videos (@houseofhighlights)
As the Golden State Warriors poured it on the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Thursday night, pop star Rihanna become the story.
As noted by Twitter users like Cycle's Rob Perez, the 29-year-old singer appeared to be heckling Kevin Durant. He, in turn, started staring in her direction after scoring: 
Listen: Rihanna yells "BRIIIIIICK!!!" at Durant during free throw, he stares her down twice 😂 (h/t @tshent) s://t.co/XYdFOv9mc3
When asked about the incident postgame, KD played the "I don't even remember" card.
"Don't fall into that trap, bro," Stephen Curry chimed in. 
After the 113-91 loss by the Cavaliers, Rihanna maintained that no matter what, LeBron James is still the King (Warning: NSFW language):
Rihanna: "it doesn't matter, bitch", as she passes Cavs locker room. s://t.co/6DJDBL25Gj
 
"Pretty sure Joel Embiid has the IQ of a squirrel."
Those words came out of the Philadelphia 76ers star center's mouth Thursday night in the latest round of Jimmy Kimmel Live's NBA-centric "Mean Tweets" skit.
James Harden, Karl-Anthony Towns, Devin Booker and other current pro hoopers participated, as well as legends Walt "Clyde" Frazier, Shaquille O'Neal and Karl Malone.
Props to all the participants for being good sports—well, except for the Mailman. 
[Jimmy Kimmel Live]  
To see my family struggle everyday growing up and now I can help change that..YES I'M HAPPY😊! Don't worry I'll be this happy getting sacks 🤗 s://t.co/LckhYSEkQ8
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
Atlanta Falcons defensive end Takkarist McKinley—who turned heads last month with a wild post-draft interview—threw himself a little Snapchat dance party on Thursday.
The No. 26 pick out of UCLA busted a move, writing, "When you see them two commas in yo bank account," and, "When you go from having nothing to a millionaire overnight."
McKinley likely has even more money than anticipated, given that the NFL chose not to fine him for dropping the F-bomb on live TV at the draft in Philadelphia.
[h/t Deadspin, Twitter]

Milwaukee Brewers first baseman and outfielder Eric Thames has been getting drug-tested with great frequency this year.
"Randomly."
After the 30-year-old, who spent the last three years in South Korea, blasted his 14th home run of the season in a 7-1 win over the New York Mets on Wednesday, he was given his fifth drug test of the year, per Tom Hardicourt of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel:
So, Eric Thames hits first HR in three weeks and is randomly drug tested after the game. He thinks it’s funny but doesn’t think it’s random.
Here's the shot:
POW! WHAM! 

@EricThames smash! s://t.co/qwl5UF7GiI
During a red-hot April, which featured 11 dingers, Thames was tested three times in 10 days. He told reporters that he has "lots of blood and urine" to test:
Eric Thames was drug tested again tonight. "If people keep thinking I'm on stuff, I'll be here every day. I have a lot of blood and urine." s://t.co/De1smFWVj7
Ken Rosenthal detailed why the frequent testing is the result of the MLB's Joint Drug Agreement, which mandates "extensive mandatory follow-up" tests for players "who reach agreement to return to a major-league club after being out of affiliated baseball (majors or minors) for one calendar year or longer."
Thames isn't being singled-out; his resurgence at the dish just makes it look that way.
[Twitter, h/t theScore]
Huge amount of heart from @DelPotroJuan at @RolandGarros.❤️
🇪🇸 Nicolas Almagro (knee) forced to retire v. 🇦🇷 JM Del Potro.
#RolandGarros2017 s://t.co/DvzjYaatft
During the second round of the 2017 French Open on Thursday, Spain's Nicolas Almagro was forced to forfeit his match due to a knee injury.
He was devastated.
His opponent, Juan Martin Del Potro, went over and comforted the sobbing player, who, as the announcers noted, has been plagued with health problems in recent years.
Fans cheered and chanted "Nico!" as both players hugged and walked off the court.

LaMelo Ball is now on NBA2K.
On Wednesday, YouTuber King Shawnn showed off an impressively accurate MyCareer starring the Chino Hills (California) sophomore point guard, whose older brother, Lonzo, is bound for the 2017 NBA draft lottery.
The narrative is loaded with spot-on features like LaMelo's father, Big Baller Brand CEO LaVar Ball, calling him about going to the Los Angeles Lakers (sound familiar?). LaMelo does take a meeting with other shoe companies in MyCareer, though.
On the court, the animated character plays just like the 5-star UCLA commit—breaking ankles and launching moonshot threes.
Pro hoops is still a long way away for the baby of the Ball family, but this provided a look at what life could be like.
[YouTube]
Remember the 2006 finals MVP? This is him now 🤧🤧🤧 s://t.co/MYiEvP2OtZ
Dwyane Wade isn't worried about being "cool."
On Wednesday, the Chicago Bulls shooting guard responded to a Twitter user who poked fun at his outfit by telling him he listened to country music before both 40-point efforts in the 2006 NBA Finals against the Dallas Mavericks.
What if I told you in 06 I listened to country music b4 every game that I score 40 in?Would that not be cool? I'm different you wanna fit in s://t.co/JU3jX1glqy

What if I told you...
@DwyaneWade D Wade bout to do a 30 for 30 on pump up country music.. hit the folks with "What if I told you" 😂😂😂😂😂
Then 24 years old, Wade averaged 34.7 points in the six-game series and won Finals MVP.
After falling down 0-2, D-Wade carried Miami to four straight wins while averaging 39.3 points on 50.5 percent shooting.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Only two men—er, action figures—were left standing after a wild melee in B/R's summary of the NBA playoffs.
LeBron James and Kevin Durant.
The all-time great forwards withstood attacks from contenders like Isaiah Thomas, while MVP candidates Russell Westbrook and James Harden wailed on one another.
On Thursday night, the battle continues as the Cleveland Cavaliers visit the Golden State Warriors in Game 1 of the 2017 NBA Finals.
Warning: video contains profanity.
Travis Scott's bond with the Houston Rockets just went up a notch.
The rapper—a former ball boy for his hometown NBA squad—teamed up with MVP candidate James Harden for his "Way Back" music video, which came out Wednesday.
The Beard, who is name-dropped in the song, watches negative coverage of himself (including Lil B discussing the infamous curse) before hitting the gym and, uh, hanging upside down.
WAY BACK VIDEO. I DID THIS FOR A PROJECT I DID IN HOUSTON A WHILE AGO. HERE U GO. 
s://t.co/17PWgHj7ks
Scott performed at a handful of Rockets playoff games this year. He also designed shirts for fans who attended Game 6 of the Western Conference Semifinals in Houston.
[Twitter, YouTube]
Steelers Sammie Coates opted NOT to have surgery on his broken, crooked finger. Here it is: s://t.co/TSzLfAJGex
After a blazing start to last season, Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Sammie Coates suffered a broken finger on his left hand in Week 5.
The 24-year-old didn't get surgery for the "fractures and tendon damage" this offseason, though. He showed off his mangled finger during a media session Tuesday.
"Nah, just getting the strength back," Coates said when asked if he got any treatment. "Just being a football player."
‘You want to see it?’ Steelers WR Sammie Coates shows off the hand with multiple broken fingers that marginalized his production in 2016. s://t.co/SVh3JA9KHF
 
A photo posted by Amoila Jamil Cesar (@amoila_cesar)
Los Angeles Lakers forward Julius Randle has been in the weight room this offseason.
On Tuesday, the former Kentucky Wildcat’s trainer, Amoila Jamil Cesar, showed off the 22-year-old's impressive overhaul. Cesar wrote that this has come in "a little over" three weeks:
"We just hit a little over 3 weeks and @juliusrandle30 has already shown improvements in body composition and performance!! I'm having a proud moment right now but this is only the beginning. It all starts with a healthy mind, body and soul!"
Magic Johnson and the front office will be thrilled:
Julius Randle said the front office wants him to return from the offseason"a beast coming back in incredible shape.”
[Instagram, Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Paul Pierce compares Kevin Durant joining Warriors to a kid becoming friends with his bullies to avoid getting beat up. s://t.co/00U8c5sTW0
During a Tuesday afternoon segment on ESPN's The Jump, retired NBA veteran Paul Pierce took a shot at Kevin Durant's decision to join the Golden State Warriors in free agency last summer.
"I'm just not built like that," the Truth said. "I'm not a guy who goes into the neighborhood, gets beat up by the bully's gang and then now I want to join your gang."
Rachel Nichols, Amin Elhassan and Scottie Pippen laughed at the analogy.
Pierce was likely referring to the Warriors' elimination of Durant's Oklahoma City Thunder in last year's Western Conference Finals. OKC was up 3-1 before Golden State stormed back and advanced to the NBA Finals.

#NeighborGoals. 😍

We truly have the best fans on the planet! 

#DefendTheLand #NBAFinals s://t.co/1FqYYbDd8P
As the NBA Finals inch closer, Cleveland Cavaliers fans are making some last-minute preparations.
On Tuesday, the team's official Twitter page passed along photos of two homes that feature Cavs-themed lawn designs, including the phrase "Defend the Land." 
The Cavaliers visit the Golden State Warriors on Thursday at 9 p.m. for Game 1. 
  
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
"White Iverson" rapper Post Malone finally met Allen Iverson this weekend.
Two nights after hanging with his inspiration, the 21-year-old told TMZ that The Answer wants Jadakiss on the remix. Like Malone, the 42-year-old New Yorker has experience rhyming about A.I.:
Posty also talked about some of the best rappers in the NBA.
A photo posted by Posty (@postmalone)
"Allen's nice," he said. "... Lance Stephenson's nice. Iman Shumpert's got some bars under there."
How about Kobe Bryant?
"… I'm not sure about Kobe. Shaq was nice," Malone said while laughing.
In the late '90s, Bryant made a brief—and questionable—attempt at becoming a hip-hop star.
Don't expect a "White Mamba" track anytime soon.
[TMZ Sports]
Thank You to those who sacrifice, serve &amp; protect us and our freedom. #MemorialDay #Salute s://t.co/VUzsBam2fj
Memorial Day was observed on Monday in the United States, and athletes across all sports took to social media to honor military veterans.
NFL players, including stars like Russell Wilson, DeMarcus Ware and reigning MVP Matt Ryan, plus teams, chimed in:
To all the men &amp; women before, today, &amp; tomorrow who give their lives so we can be free. 

Thank You. 

#MemorialDay 🇺🇸🇺🇸🇺🇸 s://t.co/wXVlh5Gp2e
Thank you to all our Veterans! 🇺🇸#MemorialDay
Remembering World War II hero and Giants Ring of Honor member Al Blozis on this #MemorialDay. 🇺🇸 s://t.co/IZzhq8VMRM
Grateful for the soldiers &amp; families who sacrifice &amp; serve to protect our country. Honor them. #MemorialDay
Thank you to the bravest heroes that gave everything they had then to earn and protect what we all have now. 🇺🇸#MemorialDay 🇺🇸 s://t.co/FMKsJogrwJ
Forever thankful for those who made the sacrifice for our freedom 🇺🇸🇺🇸🇺🇸
Honoring &amp; remembering those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom. Thanks to these brave men &amp; women - our heroes! #MemorialDay🇺🇸 s://t.co/45kUkbWtZF
Today we remember the men &amp; women who paid the ultimate sacrifice. Thank u to all who've served &amp; continue to serve our country #MemorialDay
Athletes from other sports, including NBA stud Karl-Anthony Towns, MLB star Anthony Rizzo and United States Olympic hero Carli Lloyd, also voiced their appreciation:
Freedom isn't free. Our debt to the honorable men and women who serve our country can never be repaid but we honor them today and every day.
Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. John 15:13 s://t.co/eETSfSwezj
Land of the free, because of the brave 🇺🇸 #MemorialDay s://t.co/oJUBcLzqA6
We remember our fallen heroes that gave the ultimate sacrifice 🇺🇸. 

Happy #MemorialDay s://t.co/VOmO8aBJCT
A day to reflect those who lost their lives serving our country. 🇺🇸#MemorialDay s://t.co/POZx6ATXeU
Today, we honor and remember members of our armed forces who made the ultimate sacrifice. 🇺🇸

#MemorialDay s://t.co/jqTxFlm1V5
Together we remember those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice to protect and serve our country. 🇺🇸 #MemorialDay s://t.co/y4RiUrOFMd
Thankful for all the Vets that sacrificed to enable us to have the lives that we do.. #MemorialDay


Well that didn't take long👀 @RAIDERS @ESPNNFL s://t.co/BNQrp8vAOg
Charles Woodson spent 11 years—his first eight and last three—wearing No. 24 for the Oakland Raiders.
The 40-year-old retired after the team's 2015 campaign, and the franchise wasted little time in finding a new owner for his old number. Running back Marshawn Lynch, who came out of retirement this offseason to sign a two-year deal with Oakland, will be rocking Woodson's former number in 2017.
Woodson stumbled across a Beast Mode jersey Monday and commented, "Well, that didn't take long" with a pair of eye emojis on his Twitter account.

The former shutdown corner isn't actually mad about Lynch getting his old number, though. On Friday, he told ESPN.com's Paul Gutierrez that Beast Mode, who wore No. 24 with the Seattle Seahawks, deserves it.
"That number 24, that's something special with the Raiders," Woodson said. "I don't think there's anybody more worthy than Marshawn to wear that number."
Update: Monday, May 29 at 2:45 p.m. ET
Lynch caught wind of Woodson’s tweet and asked if the future Hall of Famer wanted to have the number back:
Big bra want it back?RT @cwoodson24: Well that didn't take long👀 @RAIDERS @ESPNNFL s://t.co/bOYM4qltg5
---End of update---

Cleveland Cavaliers head coach Tyronn Lue apparently owes acting Golden State Warriors coach Mike Brown some money.
Over the weekend, the former Los Angeles Laker said he lost a shooting contest to Brown during his rookie year. That was in 1998-99.
"I tried to pay him and he wouldn't take the money, so he says I always owe him," Lue told reporters while laughing, per Cleveland.com's Chris Fedor. "He's always been a great guy."
Lue didn't remember much about the contest, but he knew for sure Brown didn't out-shoot him: "I just missed some shots."
Maybe they can go double-or-nothing prior to the NBA Finals.
[h/t For The Win]
CLEVELAND THANK YOU!!!! WE DID IT!!!! KYLE MET LEBRON JAMES LAST NIGHT!!!! #KylesWish s://t.co/NNgQ02kKQD
Earlier this month, the hashtag #KylesWish took off on social media with one end goal in mind: getting 19-year-old Kyle Osborne, who has a rare form of cancer, to meet LeBron James.
It was a seemingly impossible task, according to the Albuquerque Journal’s Joline Gutierrez Kruger, especially during the NBA playoffs.
In early May, "the LeBron James Family Foundation sent Kyle a gift box filled with [Cleveland] Cavaliers jerseys, posters, coffee mug, I Promise gel bands, a pair of James' practice-worn shoes, a set of Beats headphones and other goodies."
Laura Onorato, a physician's assistant who helped jump-start the #KylesWish campaign, wanted more for Osborne.
This is Kyle. He is 19 w/terminal cancer. His wish is to meet @KingJames before he dies. Please help us reach him by retweeting #KylesWish s://t.co/8JY94b21Fe
"Kyle's been dealt a (expletive) hand," she said. "He doesn't deserve to be given just a box."
The nonprofit organization A Special Wish Foundation got involved, setting up a trip to Cleveland for Kyle's family, who live in New Mexico, that included box seats for Game 5 of the Eastern Conference Finals against the Boston Celtics, a hotel room, limousine and other luxuries. 
Onorato joined, as well.
Already getting closer to @KingJames! Love that smile, Kyle ❤☄#KylesWish s://t.co/sbMjymai9t
"It was amazing," Kyle told Kruger. "We felt like celebrities."
In the end, Kyle shook hands with James and shared a smile with the King. He credited Onorato with turning his dream into reality.
"She's amazing. She's just amazing," he said, per Kruger. "She keeps trying and trying, and doesn't give up."
[h/t Albuquerque Journal]
Warriors Stephen Curry jersy on Mt Everest. #DubNation #WarriorsWeek #nba #usabasketball #GSWarriors2Day #NBAFinals #NBAFinals2017 # s://t.co/MRK5hvhVPa
Stephen Curry hit a high point this week, even before the NBA Finals kicked off.
Or, at least his jersey did.
During what he called his seventh time reaching the Mount Everest summit, Golden State Warriors fan Nima Tenji Sherpa toted along a throwback No. 30 Curry jersey.
Your move, Cleveland Cavaliers fans.

There's throwing hard, and there's sending the catcher's equipment flying.
With the New York Yankees holding a 3-2 lead in the ninth inning against the Oakland Athletics on Saturday, closer Dellin Betances reared back a fired a 100.2-mph heater to Josh Phegley. When catcher Gary Sanchez caught the inside pitch, part of his finger protector flew off.
That probably tickled.
Betances closed things out and the Yankees won 3-2.
[MLB]
She said YES! 💍

Alexander Gustafsson's night just got even better! #UFCStockholm  s://t.co/tnMzXO12I4
This was a memorable few minutes for Alexander Gustafsson.
After knocking out Glover Teixeira with a brutal uppercut-right hand combo at UFC Stockholm on Sunday, the Swedish light heavyweight dropped to a knee and proposed to his girlfriend, who is pregnant with their child.
What a striking clinic by Gustafsson #UFCFightNight109 s://t.co/eFSnBo7YGh
"I love you, and thanks for having our kid, our baby," The Mauler said. "I love you with all my heart. Do you want to marry me?"
She said yes as his local fans cheered loudly.

OHHHHHH!! The right-hook lands on the head of Musoke, and @Serbian_Steel wins on enemy soil!! What a shot! #UFCStockholm s://t.co/gnIxGf3gbW
After taking a crushing right hand from welterweight Bojan "Serbian Steel" Velickovic at UFC Stockholm on Sunday, Nico Musoke's legs went rubber on him.
The 31-year-old Swedish fighter wobbled around for several seconds before meeting the mat.
Referee Kevin Sataki ended the fight with less than 30 seconds to go in the third round.
[h/t Deadspin]
A photo posted by Jimmy Butler (@jimmybutler)
Over the summer, Chicago Bulls star Jimmy Butler told reporters he could be an NFL receiver so good that he would "take Demaryius Thomas' spot, Antonio Brown's spot."
Hmm.
On Saturday, the Denver Broncos veteran slipped past Butler in a front-yard football drill. Butler wrote on Instagram that he felt his "football dreams slipping away."
In fairness, Jimmy Buckets never said he'd be an effective cornerback. Plus, he has experience as a pass-catcher:
A photo posted by Jimmy Butler (@jimmybutler)
[Instagram]
The star-loaded California Supreme AAU team attracted some NBA studs Saturday.
Russell Westbrook and DeMar DeRozan—both Cali natives—swung by the Sports Academy in Thousand Oaks to watch juniors Shareef O'Neal and Bol Bol roll to a 91-61 victory in the Nike EYBL.
The respective sons of former NBA big men Shaquille O'Neal and the late Manute Bol combined for 33 points on 12-of-21 shooting and 18 rebounds against the NY Rens.
Shareef O'Neal committed to the Arizona Wildcats in April. The 7'2" Bol Bol has received offers from Arizona, Kansas, Kentucky, UCLA and other schools but remains undecided.
[YouTube]
Russell Westbrook pushes fashion to its limit, but even the Oklahoma City Thunder superstar has a line he won't cross.
Apparently, it's the romper.
On Friday, TMZ caught up with the six-time All-Star point guard and asked about the latest trend to take off on Twitter. The potential MVP laughed.
"I don't wear rompers, man," Westbrook said. "I just be chillin', bro."
Russ also talked about being a new father, telling TMZ with a smile that his son, Noah, is "a lot of work."
[TMZ Sports]
Aaron's dad emailed us to ask if we could do something for his 9th birthday 🎂

We decided to do something special. s://t.co/MRTLr4luEx
Meeting four of your favorite athletes is a pretty sweet birthday present, especially for a kid.
On Friday, the European Tour shared a video of nine-year-old Aaron meeting Andrew "Beef" Johnston, Henrik Stenson, Martin Kaymer and Justin Rose at the request of his father.
After riding with the players, Aaron arrived at England's Wentworth Club, home of this year's PGA Championship, and capped a star-studded day by sinking a putt.
The players tweeted their birthday wishes after the video was released:
To see it back and see his face is wicked. So happy for him 😀😀👍🏻 s://t.co/LMoRimb05b
Wish I had this kind of Birthday 😄🎂 great stuff @EuropeanTour , happy to be part of it! s://t.co/JxvHeVozMD
Happy Birthday Aaron!!! 👍🏻 s://t.co/xtILJdxxfk
Happy birthday Aaron! s://t.co/MxrmgYYNDp
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Aaron Judge usually makes headlines for smashing mammoth home runs. Lately, he's turning heads with his glove.
During the top of the sixth inning against the Oakland Athletics on Saturday, the 6'7" slugger retired third baseman Trevor Plouffe after a pop-up bounced off second baseman Starlin Castro's mitt. Judge smoothly snagged the ball on the rebound.
This came a week after the 25-year-old submitted a Catch of the Year candidate by laying out in right-center field against the Tampa Bay Rays.
Sure @TheJudge44 crushes homers. But let’s talk about his DEFENSE! s://t.co/zWhXw7XeoA
New York won 3-2 on Saturday to improve to 28-18 on the season.
[MLB]
Carlos Correa has range.
On Saturday, the Houston Astros' 22-year-old star shortstop chased down a blooper off the bat of Baltimore Orioles outfielder Joey Rickard in the top of the eighth inning.
Correa reached behind his head to make the off-balance grab before hitting the ground.
Houston won 5-2.
[MLB]  
Say what you will about Tim Tebow, but the man is clutch.
In the bottom of the ninth inning Thursday night, with the Columbia Fireflies (Class-A affiliate of the New York Mets) leading the Lexington Legends 3-2, a ball was hit out to the former NFL quarterback in left field.
Tebow met the grass with a not-so-smooth diving grab to end the game.
At the plate, the 29-year-old went 0-for-3 with a walk.
[YouTube]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Bleacher Report debuted a new animated series Friday called Delete Your Account, hosted by "King of the Comment Section" Deon Buggs and "The Dark Lord from the Dark Web" Kenny Mac.
In the inaugural episode, the most infamous commenters on the internet call for an 82-game series between the Cleveland Cavaliers and the Golden State Warriors and run into a robotic Gregg Popovich—who wasn't feeling talkative.
"Man, even the robot version of this guy is impossible to interview."
After an 11-inning battle, @UCLASoftball topped Ole Miss in dramatic fashion with a walk off in game one of Supers! s://t.co/iWo6UzQuWs
UCLA Bruins softball ace Rachel Garcia threw 232 pitches in an 11-inning, complete-game victory against the Ole Miss Rebels in the NCAA Division I Super Regional opener on Thursday in Los Angeles.
The No. 5-seeded Bruins fended off the No. 12 Rebels after the visitors took a 7-5 lead in the 10th.
Catcher Madeline Jelenicki hit a two-strike pitch to right field, sealing the 11-10 win.
While Garcia's pitch count certainly catches the eye, espnW.com's Graham Hays noted that it's not an unusual occurrence in softball:
"Softball pitching is different from baseball pitching, mechanically. College softball pitchers routinely throw multiple days in a row, even multiple games in a day (and often throw even more frequently in travel ball). ... But as head-turning as Garcia's pitch count will be to sports fans who find softball only at this time of year, and while it blew away her own career high, it isn't wildly out of the norm for the sport."
Game 2 of the best-of-three series is Friday night at 9 p.m. ET.
[h/t espnW]

Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver John Ross isn't impressed with DeSean Jackson's speed.
On Friday, Ross, who broke Chris Johnson's 40-yard-dash record at the NFL Scouting Combine with a time of 4.22 seconds in April, responded to a tweet from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers about their newest deep threat.
😱😱😱

Oh my, @DeSeanJackson11 is FAST! s://t.co/sNF22gUVLi
Ross' response?
"Child please," a callback to another famous Bengals trash-talker, Chad Johnson (warning: link contains NSFW language):
For the record, Jackson's 40 time at the 2008 combine was 4.35.
It's not the first time the former Washington Huskies stud has flaunted his quickness. Last month, he challenged Usain Bolt to a race.
Update: Friday, May 26, at 2:45 p.m. ET
Ross later indicated that he was using the phrase from DJax's perspective as he burned the defender, not as a taunt:
Lol they will try to make a story out of anything to get views. I was speaking as if i was Desean saying child please that was too easy 😂 s://t.co/sa2auMXtwE
He said he was saying child please in reference to the dude trying and failing to cover DeSean, which actually makes more sense s://t.co/ezy12UIqiF
Ross also deleted his original tweet.


Carolina Panthers head coach Ron Rivera defended Kelvin Benjamin this week after the fourth-year wide receiver caught heat from fans and media due to an unflattering photo.
On Thursday, Rivera said the 6'5" pass-catcher has been "outstanding" in OTAs and noted that the concern over his weight has been unfair.
"A lot was made out of it that was unfair to be made out of it," Rivera told media members, per Jourdan Rodrigue of the Charlotte Observer. "Especially in a voluntary situation. But he's worked very hard. He's focused in on what he needs to do and he's done that."
Benjamin has downplayed the issue, too. Last week, the 26-year-old told Max Henson of Panthers.com that although he was disappointed with his first weigh-in, he plans on being in the "best shape of [his] life" come training camp.
Per Henson, Benjamin plans on playing at 245 pounds.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]

A year ago, Mike Senatore just wanted to be in the Ardrey Kell High School talent show. He couldn't sing. He couldn't dance. He couldn't play an instrument. But none of this stopped his desire to participate.
The original idea was to chug a bottle of water before flipping it, but Mom quickly nixed that one. Instead, Senatore decided to set up "awkward tension" with music before flipping a bottle onto a table. He put together the music clip from Jorge Quintero's 300 Violin Orchestra and called it a night.
"A lot of it was just BS'ing," Senatore tells Bleacher Report. "I didn't have any real talent." 
In a flash, a video of the event exploded (now over 7.5 million views on YouTube) and it quickly had 20,000 retweets on Twitter, making Senatore an overnight sensation. The next day, his phone rang endlessly, and he talked to everyone from the New York Times to Teen Vogue. By the end of the week, Senatore appeared on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, showing the comedian his bottle-flipping skill. His flight to New York was the first time he'd ever been on an airplane.
"Every single viral person is thinking the same thing when they're in that moment of viral fame," Senatore says. "People who make it to that tier, when they make it to a show, it's just like, 'How is this happening? Why am I in New York?'
"A whole year later, it doesn't make sense to me."
Senatore embraced his 15 minutes of fame, but the bottle-flipping craze continued through the year as one of 2016's biggest trends. Students around the country started flipping bottles in class, which led to teachers banning bottle flips. Bottle-flip iPhone apps were developed. Think pieces were written. LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers even flipped bottles during a blowout win over the New York Knicks. And every time someone notable flips a bottle, Senatore hears about it from his friends.
"The first day that I went viral, it was like I saved the world or something. People I hadn't talked to in years are texting me," Senatore says. "A manager I had for two weeks at one of my jobs texted me. It was super surreal [to see] who comes out of nowhere because they think it's so freaking funny that this happened." 
A photo posted by Michael Senatore (@michael_senatore)
Along with the fame, Senatore is proud the video led Deer Park, the bottled water brand he flipped, to donate $10,000 to the American Cancer Society, especially since he lost his father to cancer some years prior. Senatore says the donation day was the happiest day of his life, and soon he saw people around the world raising money through bottle flipping.
"That something so stupid that I did in my talent show could have such a great cause to it, in my eyes, that's the coolest thing I've ever seen," he says.
Even a year later, people around town know Senatore as the kid who flipped a bottle. And even if his national fame isn't what it was for those two weeks last May, the local fame remains.
"I work at a car wash, and it's funny because they all know me there from forever and they make fun of me," he says. "I've had the same manager for three years, and they call me water boy now. These kids are obsessed with me. They want to go to work meetings just to meet me. It's funny because kids look at me like I'm some hero, and I don't know how to react to it. In my eyes, I'm just a stupid college kid doing his own thing." 
Senatore acknowledges he probably won't ever create anything as widely seen as his bottle-flip video, but that doesn't stop him from reaching.
"I peaked. That's what people tell me," Senatore says. "I use it as motivation. It motivates me every day in a way. I don't want [the bottle flip] to be the best thing that ever happened to me. I can't expect to go on Stephen Colbert again, but maybe I could be on Stephen Colbert again."
Senatore says he wanted to be a politician before the video went viral, but the notoriety and the past election changed his mind. Now, after seeing the behind-the-scene machinations of the entertainment industry, he's found an interest in production and is an incoming sophomore studying business at the University of South Carolina. Regardless of what the future holds, Senatore understands that bottle flipping will always have a place in his story.
"[Bottle flipping]'s still a daily part of my life. Ten years from now, it'll still be big in my life," Senatore says.
"I think kids will still be doing it. Planking died out, but planking was also planking."
A photo posted by Jimmy Butler (@jimmybutler)
LMFAOOOOOOO s://t.co/4DpEMvhDH9
Jimmy Butler and DeAndre Jordan developed something of a bromance with the United States Olympic team last summer, and the teasing has continued throughout the season.
On Wednesday, the Chicago Bulls shooting guard posted a headshot on Instagram captioned “haircut needed.” Jordan agreed.
“Badly,” the Los Angeles Clippers big fella commented. “I’ll even pay for it.”
That was it. Jimmy Buckets went right for the heart with his retort, jokingly telling Jordan “I never liked you anyway[,] I was acting the whole time.”
Cold.
Update: Jordan returned to Butler's post later in the day to respond: 
I'm crying s://t.co/wiEmsN2rpK



The trailer!! I AM MARBURY the movie MY OTHER HOME ready for the next move. #loveislove #starburymovement #china #museum #starbury s://t.co/1gCGLeYYTp
Last June, The Wrap’s Beatrice Verhoeven reported that former NBA player Stephon Marbury would be playing himself in a biopic about his rise to superstardom in the Chinese Basketball Association.
On Wednesday, Starbury released the trailer for My Other Home. It looks big-time.
This is no ordinary documentary. It’s a full-fledged movie that features legitimate acting as well as Baron Davis in a potentially adversarial role. According to IMDb, Allen Iverson is also in the film.
The 40-year-old has taken the Beijing Ducks to three championships since 2012. Marbury has been honored with a statue, a musical and The House of Marbury Museum in China, according to Kiki Zhao of the New York Times.
My Other Home seems a must-see.


Siri doesn't roll with the Buckeyes.
On Tuesday, former Michigan Wolverines lineman and current NFL free agent Mike Martin instructed his Twitter followers to ask the Apple digital assistant a simple question: When did Michael Jordan retire?
Hey @UMichFootball fans go ask siri "When did Michael Jordan retire" and you'll very pleased by her response. Trust me! JUST DO IT!
The answers—for the legendary NBA superstar—would be 1993, 1998 and 2003.
But Siri takes the question to be about a Buckeyes sophomore offensive lineman with the same name.
Her response, via Maizen Brew's David Noe, referenced a low-point for Ohio State:
@GoMikeMartin @UMichFootball I got a slightly different response. They were subjugated by Clemson. 😂 s://t.co/lRAcNuMQmA
Somebody at Apple must be a Michigan fan.
[h/t SB Nation]
Warning: NSFW content.
So this is what Rob Gronkowski thinks about.
On Wednesday, DJ and producer 3LAU released his music video for "On My Mind" starring the New England Patriots tight end.
It’s an absolutely wild ride that features a scandalous car wash, Gronk’s wrestling buddy Mojo Rawley, some shirtless sushi and trampoline wrestling.
Or, you know, just a regular day for Tom Brady's favorite target.
3LAU performed on Gronk’s Party Ship last summer.
[YouTube]
Look at Dlo's latest like... s://t.co/Skiv8GalNq
It seems Los Angeles Lakers point guard D’Angelo Russell is not in favor of Lonzo Ball joining the team.
On Tuesday night, the 21-year-old liked a tweet from Twitter user @Beck_Jordan11, who said that, after watching Russell’s 2016-17 highlights, "there is no way in hell they should draft Lonzo."
Watching D'Angelo Russell highlights from this year makes me think there is no way in hell they should draft Lonzo. They stupid if they do
If drafted at No. 2, Ball, a star point guard out of UCLA, would take over Russell's duties running the offense and slide the southpaw to shooting guard or force the Lakers to trade him.
After others began noticing Russell's interaction with the tweet, he un-liked it.

Looking through the closet .... quite the collection... s://t.co/xck7LaX5Gr
Postgame jersey swaps have taken over the NFL in recent years, and Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman has accumulated a serious collection.
On Tuesday, the 29-year-old showed off some of his prized possessions.
Sherman’s wide receivers:
Running backs:
Defensive players:
There are more, too, apparently:
One day I will show the jerseys already on the wall....


The Tampa Bay Buccaneers hit the NFC South rival Atlanta Falcons where it hurt Tuesday.
Where, you ask? Atlanta's historic Super Bowl collapse.
It all started with a harmless tweet about Bucs-themed fidget spinners:
These are going FAST! Check out the official #Buccaneers Fidget Spinner at our online store!

SHOP NOW: s://t.co/dp3Q13TNhL s://t.co/RS2eoAKjFg
The Falcons chimed in with a GIF of cornerback Desmond Trufant and asked if Tampa Bay was "nervous about something."
@TBBuccaneers Are you nervous about something? s://t.co/i6S4ExDCLF
It was not.
The Buccaneers answered with a crushing blow of a picture that featured cornerback Vernon Hargreaves celebrating with quarterback Jameis Winston. Their jersey numbers formed the Super Bowl score prior to the New England Patriots' comeback:
@AtlantaFalcons We ain't worried 'bout nothing! s://t.co/7rIpy9gxtE
Boom.
Atlanta didn't respond.
[Twitter, h/t theScore]    
Thanks to Mike &amp; Sue of @fairlife milk for the @fairoaksfarms tour. Great day, what a mission they are on! PLUS helped deliver a baby calf! s://t.co/8sSZYPaY4o
Michigan Wolverines head coach Jim Harbaugh helped to deliver a calf on Monday morning.
Yup, a baby cow.
The 53-year-old took a tour of Fairlife Farms, a company he's worked with previously:
And let's not forget: Harbaugh is a huge milk guy.
Ruth's Chris &amp; Buzz Goebel!Sarah, me &amp; Ann Arbor thank U for being such good sports! Plus the Steaks  are A++, Mercy! s://t.co/7CiB8ZMuXy
Talkin' @fairlife milk and drinkin' @fairlife milk. Who's got it better than us? Noooo-body! s://t.co/cHnGblXIhg
UPDATE: Tuesday, May 23 at 12:05 p.m. ET
Annie Apple, the mother of former Ohio State Buckeyes cornerback Eli Apple, used the story to deride Harbaugh's struggles against Michigan's top rival:
But he can't deliver a win against the Buckeyes. 😏 s://t.co/0oSXxIG2hs
The Wolverines have lost both encounters with the Buckeyes since Harbaugh arrived. They fell out of last year's College Football Playoff picture after losing a double-overtime thriller at Columbus.


In the 89th minute of Sunday's 5-1 win over Yeovil Town, Manchester City's Carli Lloyd was shown a red card for elbowing Annie Heatherson.
The 2016 World Player of the Year was clearly being held in the box, but her complaints to the official didn't work.
According to the BBC, the 34-year-old Lloyd could receive a three-game suspension, making her available for just one more City match this season.
[YouTube, h/t Deadspin]
Looks like Deron Williams got the Carlos Boozer spraypaint hair 😂 s://t.co/lEEKMdPDjx
Deron Williams and Carlos Boozer formed a dominant guard-big man tandem back in their Utah Jazz days.
Boozer has since retired, but some fans viewing Game 3 of the Eastern Conference Finals of Sunday night wondered if D-Will was channeling the spirit of his former teammate.
You know where this is going.
The hair.
Now, even if he did take a page out of Boozer's book, D-Will's wasn't nearly as bad. Michael Rapaport made the connection, though, and others agreed:
Was DeRon Williams on that Carlos Boozer tonite s://t.co/UvmNHtL5HV
Can somebody Fact check if Deron Williams was wearing spray on hair tonite aka That Carlos Boozer
Carlos boozer mustve left some of the hair dye in his old locker &amp; D Will found it &amp; thought he'd give it a shot since its the playoffs! SMH
Boozer must've loaned Deron Williams his spray-on hair s://t.co/CDtX4sYrAU
@World_Wide_Wob Lebron made him get up 😂😂😂 s://t.co/KqRDR3v2F8

@BillyHo_Golf s://t.co/AUCyXyhE1R
American golfer Billy Horschel outlasted Jason Day to win Sunday's AT&T Byron Nelson, and his young daughter was watching.
Brittany Horschel, Billy's wife, tweeted out the video of their first child, Skylar Lillian, celebrating wildly upon seeing her dad on TV.
Here's what she was watching:
What a week at @attbyronnelson. Feel for my man @JDayGolf. So thankful for all your support over the last few weeks! s://t.co/uSBlfJkaOl

Dj 9 rocking the stage with @EzekielElliott @tonyromo s://t.co/h626ytaJgv
Former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo took over the ones and twos as a disc jockey at a charity event hosted by the Circle T Ranch in Westlake, Texas, this weekend, according to Jon Machota of the Dallas Morning News.
In the highlight of the night, the CBS lead analyst brought his former teammate, Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott, on stage for Naughty By Nature's "O.P.P."
According to Machota, Romo also threw in some Bon Jovi, Guns N' Roses and The Beatles:
Tony Romo retired, signed with CBS, and became a DJ. All in 2 months. #CowboysNation @tonyromo s://t.co/JL5UHb1cAK
No word on whether this one made the cut:
How ‘bout dem Cowboys! s://t.co/huEGiQsXmk

Full clip of Randy Orton's Human Disregard! #wwebacklash s://t.co/XaTLt0C3hP
That wasn't supposed to happen.
During Backlash on Sunday night, Randy Orton lost the WWE Championship to Jinder Mahal in a match that featured what appeared to be an accidental slam against the announcers' table.
Orton picked up Samir Singh and attempted to drive him through the table, but the cruiserweight spun out and banged his head against the surface.
The Viper immediately cringed. That one hurt.
[h/t Daily DDT]
Phil Kessel now leads the league in power-play goals (5) in this year's playoffs. s://t.co/D4xEbu1P6T
Pittsburgh Penguins right winger Phil Kessel just earned some teammate brownie points.
Before Sunday's 7-0 victory over the Ottawa Senators in Game 5 of the NHL's Eastern Conference Final, center Nick Bonino experienced some car trouble. He called Kessel, who saved the day.
"It was weird," Bonino said, per Scott Allen of the Washington Post. "All of a sudden the gas didn't work and the power steering went out. I was on the highway, so I was able to get it to the side and great teammate Phil Kessel came and picked me up, so I owe a lot to Phil for being here tonight. Great guy."
It was a big night for Kessel, who added a goal and an assist in the blowout.
[Washington Post]
2morrow at Oakland Tech 1 o'clock s://t.co/PWcXkURayX
Beast Mode brought his bike back to Oakland on Friday.
Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch invited fellow inhabitants of the California city to take part in a ride with a picture of himself wearing a suit on a bike. 
Not much context was given, but people still turned out in droves.
Marshawn Lynch on a Saturday bike ride with his friends — hundreds of them. Group will ride to Berkeley and back to Oakland. s://t.co/HaAffMaW5R
According to Katie Dowd and Michelle Robertson of the San Francisco Chronicle, Lynch, who held onto the driver’s window of a white van, was joined by as many as 400 riders. Some went to great lengths just to pedal with Beast Mode:
"The parade appeared to begin at Oakland Tech High School and meander down College Avenue through Berkeley. There were smiles aplenty —on the faces of both the riders and spectators, many of whom were armed with cellphones to snap photos. One man apparently drove up from Stockton just to participate."
The 31-year-old bruising back seemed thrilled with the turnout:
The town showed out in da ride to day thank everybody that came out...Yes Lawd!!!!
Never forget, everyone, that Lynch is really, really from Oakland.
It's time. s://t.co/sgIQgZlkVM
[Twitter, h/t Deadspin]
Sure @TheJudge44 crushes homers. But let’s talk about his DEFENSE! s://t.co/zWhXw7XeoA
Aaron Judge is a giant, but he sure can move.
In the bottom of the sixth inning against the Tampa Bay Rays on Sunday, the 6'7" New York Yankees slugger chased down a would-be extra-base hit from Evan Longoria in the gap. Judge sprawled out, using every bit of his length to snag the fly ball.
The 25-year-old then doubled up Corey Dickerson, who, thinking Judge had no shot at the ball, bolted to third from first base.
People were impressed—including Judge's teammates:
Aaron Judge receives congratulations after he returns to the dugout. Insane how far the 6-7, 282-pounder went to get that ball #Yankees
Aaron Judge also has WINGSPAN. What. A. Play.
When young Aaron Judge lost his baseball under the car. @TheJudge44 #AllRise s://t.co/7uPC31mbJo
Aaron Judge in a team meeting: #NYYvsTB #NYY #Yankees #mlb s://t.co/6jTU1qTqe0
Is Aaron Judge a scarecrow

Because he is outstanding in the field
Aaron Judge looking like an All-Pro WR here .. @ochocinco @OBJ_3 #VARSITY s://t.co/Fmn4eoYRYN

Solid work today. 
Sign your end Floyd or you are just a mouth. s://t.co/YWCqoHWA2B
UFC lightweight champion Conor McGregor has reportedly agreed to his end of a contract that would pit him against Floyd Mayweather in the boxing ring.
Now, he wants Money to sign his end.
On Sunday, the Irish southpaw posted a post-workout photo in boxing gear calling out his 40-year-old potential opponent.
McGregor told Mayweather to agree, "or you are just a mouth."
The Notorious taunted the 49-0 boxer earlier in the week with a picture of his newborn son, Conor Jr., sitting with his UFC belts:
Let's go get some boxing ones now son. s://t.co/KwBkFriTto

It happened again – doubler!  knock down &amp; knock out
Dorian Price Ko's Jonathan Lecat  – Max MT s://t.co/9mRXvtmjqb
This fight was determined by who stood up first.
Dorian Price, a 39-year-old American, reached his feet before France's Jonathan Lecat could at Saturday's Max Muay Thai 167-pound bout at Max Muay Thai Stadium Pattaya in Thailand.
Both fighters connected with brutal strikes—Lecat with an elbow, Price with a right cross—resulting in a rare double knockdown. Twitter user @Jolassanda passed along video.
Price stumbled to his feet as Lecat was counted out by the referee.

Can you smell what Koko is cookin'?
During his fifth time hosting Saturday Night Live this weekend, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and departing cast member Bobby Moynihan teamed up to spoof wrestling promos (again).
Koko WatchOut, played by Johnson, went way too personal on Trashyard Mutt, who eventually walked off the set in devastation. The Rock—no stranger to electrifying promotional videos—could be seen smiling throughout.
Here's the original SNL skit from 2015:
[YouTube]
A photo posted by Mark Ingram II (@markingram22)
Last month, New Orleans Saints fan Jarrius Robertson underwent surgery for a liver transplant, according to ESPN.com's Mike Triplett.
The 15-year-old, who also stole the show at the NBA's All-Star Weekend, has biliary atresia, which has stunted his growth.
On Saturday, Saints running back Mark Ingram offered encouragement after visiting the notorious trash-talker:
“Never had a brother but I met my lil bro last year pregame! We was turnt!” the 27-year-old wrote. “His energy and perseverance is an inspiration! Love you brother I pray for you and the Lord is covering you! God bless @jarriusrobertson! P.S. I smacked lil bro in FIFA and in 2k!!”
Jarrius really appreciated the visit:
SHOUTOUT to my big bro @MarkIngram22 for the visit‼ I was nice so I let him beat me in @NBA2K 😂😂😂 s://t.co/WUBU2ysjhn
Other faces of the Saints, such as quarterback Drew Brees and head coach Sean Payton, chimed in last month:
Pray for @Jarrius today as he receives his liver transplant in New Orleans. Can't wait to see you running around the #Saints facility, JJ!
Prayers go out to @Jarrius tonight.
#courage s://t.co/esrmV4Coyz
[Twitter, Instagram]

Accuracy has always haunted Tim Tebow.
Earlier this week, the Columbia Fireflies outfielder—and former NFL quarterback—accidentally drilled an unsuspecting fan in the last place he would’ve chosen to be hit, per Kirsten Fleming of the New York Post.
"I hear this guy behind me yell, 'Watch out,'" Doug Brustman told Fleming. "And as he’s yelling, the ball comes right through the railing and hits me right in the nuts. It was a direct hit."
Brustman went on:
"It was literally like a Seinfeld episode. The guy behind me shouts, 'It was TEBOW.' It reminded me of his days with the Jets when he couldn’t complete a pass. This guy is so inaccurate, even with a baseball."

Still, it was thrown by Timmy Terrific—the very reason Brustman brought his 13-year-old basketball-playing daughter, Morgan, to the game. Tebow later signed the ball, along with two books Morgan brought.
"He didn’t have to come over," Brustman said. "How can you hate him? He’s almost too good to be true."
[New York Post]
@AaronRodgers12 our teacher agreed to not give us a final in sports lit if you retweet this! PLEASE RETWEET SHE IS YOUR BIGGEST FAN!🙏🏽🙏🏽🙏🏽 s://t.co/w4WrU2BlUf
Aaron Rodgers always comes up clutch.
The Detroit Lions, Arizona Cardinals and New York Giants know that firsthand. Now, so do these kids.
On Friday, a group of students requested that the Green Bay Packers superstar quarterback retweet their post so they could get out of a sports literature exam. After acknowledging the importance of the final, Rodgers came through.
Kobe Bryant did the same thing on Thursday.
I'm sure a sports lit final is very important, but here you go....#PayItForwardFriday s://t.co/Kj9pMwMDlT

WATCH: One-on-one with the @Celtics' @Isaiah_Thomas; @NBA star on overcoming challenges on and off court: s://t.co/jGJ0mfxdGD #Celtics s://t.co/ZUUvxkw9Je
If Isaiah Thomas were 6'4", he'd be the best player ever—according to himself.
The Boston Celtics star point guard, who stands at a towering 5'9" (and that's being generous), was asked by Good Morning America's T.J. Holmes how his career would be different with an extra seven inches.
"I'd be the best player ever," I.T. said with a smile. "And everybody would think that."
Thomas went on to say that he's been the shortest player on every team he's ever been on. The All-Star also discussed his frustration with being defined by his stature.
"It's always, 'He's good…and he's 5'9"," Thomas said. "I'm trying to look past it, but I guess it's never going to go away. It's always gonna be, 'Well, he's 5'9".' And, I mean, I'm never gonna be OK with it."

[GMA]
uh... @AROD? s://t.co/Ce9egMy5Ja
Alex Rodriguez made his broadcast debut Thursday on Fox Sports 1 as the New York Yankees fell to the Kansas City Royals, 5-1. He came prepared with notes.
Questionable ones.
Shortly after the @MLBONFOX account tweeted out a picture of the former Bronx Bombers star in the booth, Twitter put his notebook under the microscope. The findings raised eyebrows.
Next to a page dated Jan. 31, A-Rod appeared to list "birth control, baby, pull out stuff" under the headline "Child." The Fox Sports: MLB page deleted the tweet after it grew legs, but screenshots remained (as always):
@MLBONFOX A-Rod has some very interesting notes for his first broadcast s://t.co/liATRyZqWc
Above the list, there was also this sentence:
@JoeBinder20 @MLBONFOX It says "We should be talking about why we haven't spoken about it. then lists the options for sex and a child. s://t.co/Uye7SPj5tX
Rodriguez didn't address the incident during the broadcast.

A photo posted by Justin Bieber (@justinbieber)
Pop star Justin Bieber has a strange relationship with the Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors, the heavy favorites to reach the NBA Finals.
Last April, the 23-year-old singer expressed belief in LeBron James and the Cavs during a Quicken Loans Arena concert. According to DJ Steph Floss, the Biebs, while wearing an inaccurate jersey, said he thinks “LeBron is going to do it this year.”
As we know, he did.
A photo posted by DJ Steph Floss (@djstephfloss)
This past March, though, Bieber donned a full Stephen Curry uniform during a pickup game, as pointed out by Alysha Tsuji of For The Win.
We’re talking jersey, shorts, high socks—the whole deal.
A photo posted by Throwback (@throwbackstore)
On Thursday, Bieber shifted back to the King. During a Purpose World Tour concert in South Africa, he rocked a pair of retro Cavs shorts.
A photo posted by Justin Bieber (@justinbieber)
Make up your mind, Biebs.
[Instagram, Twitter, For The Win]
Kevin Durant goes LaVar Ball on @ChrisBHaynes, jokingly s://t.co/WcJfawIaf9
When pressed by Fox Sports 1's Kristine Leahy on Wednesday, Lonzo Ball’s father, LaVar, had a few simple words: "Stay in your lane."
During a media session Thursday, Golden State Warriors superstar Kevin Durant answered a follow-up question from ESPN's Chris B. Haynes in the same manner. Anthony Slater of the Bay Area News Group captured the exchange.
KD, though, was clearly joking with Haynes, and the writer took no offense:
In paying homage to Lavar Ball, Kevin Durant used me to get a jab in: "Stay in your lane," he said when I asked a follow-up. All in good fun
LaVar's comments, on the other hand, didn't seem to be "in good fun" at all.

Ben Simmons' sister slams LaVar Ball, hopes brother dunks on Lonzo. s://t.co/pp84QYY1cg s://t.co/cZFN2jJLC9
Ben Simmons’ sister Olivia is not a fan of the Ball family.
On Thursday, she tweeted that she hopes the Philadelphia 76ers rookie point guard dunks on NBA lottery-bound guard Lonzo Ball so forcefully that the Big Baller himself, LaVar, rushes the court.
She eventually deleted the post, but theScore captured a screenshot (above).
Olivia Simmons later got on LaVar Ball for his interaction with Fox Sports 1’s Kristine Leahy on Wednesday:
Hey @Lavarbigballer can I get some women's leggi..... oh wait u don't cater to everyone. You're a marketing genius.
@Lavarbigballer listen u idiot. If you want to expand your brand you do need to market toward women. CAUSE WE HOOP TOO. She was helping you
@Lavarbigballer and u were so disrespectful its her job to ask things as a reporter. You're gonna mess things up for your sons

I like what I'm seeing @Spippen_33! Keep it going! s://t.co/E9nkofRH7w
Retired NBA Hall of Famer Scottie Pippen took note of his teenage son Scotty Jr. at the 2017 Nike EYBL tournament in Atlanta last week.
Scotty Jr., who played with the South Beach all-stars, impressed with his jumper and his ability to get a shot for himself off the bounce.   
"I like what I'm seeing," his six-time champion dad wrote while tweeting out the video Wednesday.
According to Hudl, Scotty Jr. is a sophomore at Pine Crest School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.                         
Congrats to Pine Crest's Scotty Pippen (2019) who has been selected to participate in the 2017 Nike Elite 100! @Sentinel_Sports

LaVar Ball told us it would happen.
The Los Angeles Lakers came out of Tuesday night's NBA draft lottery with the No. 2 overall pick, putting them in position to select former Chino Hills (California) and UCLA star guard Lonzo Ball.
CBS Los Angeles captured footage of the family's celebration at their Chino Hills home. Lonzo danced in the kitchen next to his brother (and future Bruin) LiAngelo.
"I told him he was going to go to the Lakers. I'm gonna speak it into existence," LaVar boomed. "Boston's going to take their Markelle Fultz; he's a good player. I think he fits best with Boston. But you can't bring him to L.A., he ain't ready for this. Only one person's ready for this: It's that Ball boy."
"I know I must be a genius to plan it this way," LaVar continued. "[Lonzo's] number has always been No. 2, and guess what he's going. No. 2…to the Lakers, baby! Here we come."
LaVar told Lakers Nation's Ryan Ward that Lonzo will only work out for the Lakers. 
[CBS Los Angeles]  
Oh my god you guys the wedding proposal actually happened s://t.co/pMWsMJ0Bgd
"TTP" now stands for "Trust the Proposal."
Prior to Tuesday night’s NBA draft lottery, the Rights To Ricky Sanchez podcast and jeweler LL Pavorsky teamed up on a contest for Philadelphia 76ers fans: Get engaged at the RTRS lottery party and get a free ring worth $7,500.
The official announcement came in February:
We will pick a winner at random at [6 p.m.] at the Lottery Party, and send you a text. You have five minutes to text us back and meet with us. We will then set you up with the ring, and give you instructions for the proposal. If you do not respond within five minutes, or are not at the party, we will move on to the next.
About an hour before the Sixers' fate was determined by pingpong balls, two fans got engaged. Fans chanted "She said yes!"
"she said yes! she said yes!" #SamsTown s://t.co/E1XsaJzn1E
Someone just got engaged at the lottery party #SamsTown s://t.co/VrZWAXf06M
Notice the sweet deal on Shirley Temples in the background.

A photo posted by Chad Johnson (@ochocinco)
Former NFL receivers Chad Johnson and Terrell Owens had a debate over a simple question on Friday.
Who was better?
T.O. tops Ochocinco in every statistical receiving category and played in 53 more games. Here’s how their careers match up, per Pro-Football-Reference.com:
The numbers don’t lie. Statistically, it’s Owens.
Johnson argued that T.O.’s numbers are partly due to his surroundings, though.
"Don’t let the numbers fool you," Ocho said. "It just so happened he was put in situations that were great for him. I’m the better receiver."
T.O. was blunt in response: "Turn the film on."
The debate seemed lighthearted and in good fun. A better discussion might be who was better at celebrating touchdowns.
[Instagram, YouTube]
A photo posted by Lance Armstrong (@lancearmstrong)
On Friday, a fake news article reporting the death of cyclist Lance Armstrong grew some digital legs.
The 45-year-old former Tour de France champion—who is still alive—responded to the rumor with a selfie-video shaking his head at the ill-informed article.
Armstrong channeled his inner Mark Twain in captioning the Instagram clip: “The rumors of my death are greatly exaggerated.”
[Instagram]
Jake Keegan is stealthy.
During Round 1 of the Canadian Championship on Wednesday, the FC Edmonton forward snuck up on Ottawa Fury goalie Callum Irving as he attempted to boot the ball downfield. As soon as Irving set it down, Keegan swiped it and scored easily.
Ottawa came from behind to capture a 3-2 victory and a 4-2 aggregate win. 
[YouTube]
After struggling mightily in Thursday’s Game 6 loss to the San Antonio Spurs that eliminated his Rockets from the NBA playoffs, star James Harden hit up Set nightclub in Houston.
The Beard was joined by rapper Travis Scott, Kylie Jenner and a few Houston Texans players, according to TMZ.
Fans there showered Harden with "MVP" chants.
Some will criticize Harden for the post-loss partying, but it seemed to be nothing more than a way to blow off steam.
[TMZ]
Hamidou Diallo posted a 44.5" vertical, 2nd highest in #NBACombine history! 👀
s://t.co/LgJmBAWyZT
Hamidou Diallo could be one of the first players ever to go "none"-and-done.
The Kentucky Wildcats freshman guard didn't see a minute of action under John Calipari this season, but DraftExpress projects him as an early second-round pick. Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman had him No. 23 on his big board before his jump at the NBA Draft Combine.
This is why.
On Thursday, the 18-year-old posted a 44.5-inch vertical leap, second-highest in combine history, according to FanDuel.
On his first attempt, the 6'5" Diallo nearly cleared the measuring mechanism entirely:
Hamidou Diallo nearly cleared the vertical on his first try so they brought in stuff to make it go higher. Ridiculous leaping ability. s://t.co/BstSRKAobx
Kay Felder, now with the Cleveland Cavaliers, "unofficially" reached the second-highest vertical last year after former University of Memphis star D.J. Stephens flew 46 inches in 2013.

Ayesha shared video of the cheers Steph Curry got when they went to see Hamilton s://t.co/AwyeiIi0Je
While the San Antonio Spurs were pounding the Houston Rockets into elimination Thursday night, Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry was enjoying some theater.
The two-time reigning MVP and his wife, Ayesha, received raucous cheers at Hamilton at the SHN Orpheum Theater in San Francisco.
Curry also got "MVP" chants, per Michael Gehlken of the Las Vegas Review-Journal.
One perk to Warriors' sweep for Steph Curry: Attend "Hamilton" on a Thursday night. Chants of "MVP!" filled theater before show. s://t.co/Xulvpva7OX
Golden State will host Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals against San Antonio Sunday at 3:30 p.m. ET.


Cleveland Browns rookie tight end David Njoku, drafted 29th overall out of Miami, made a big-time blunder Thursday night.
While attending a dinner for rookies, Njoku asked one of the speakers if he was a coach.
He was not.
That speaker was offensive tackle Joe Thomas, one of the best Browns in recent memory.
Both players laughed it off:
It was an honor being invited to dinner with the @browns rookies tonight. Got to hear the great @JimBrownNFL32 speak!!
Funniest moment of the night was when @David_Njoku80 asked me if I was a coach!
.@David_Njoku80 I told him I'm a player/coach. Mostly I'll be coaching, but you will see me playing on sundays. 😂
😂😂😂🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️ s://t.co/QGsLVssI4K
Njoku might've bought himself some extra pushups, though, based on what Thomas retweeted:
@joethomas73 s://t.co/IlpUxoaKWr

James Harden had something in his eyes tonight. s://t.co/JNLkFeuxOJ
James Harden had his worst game of the year in the most important spot.
The Houston Rockets star finished with 10 points on 2-of-11 shooting (2-of-9 from three) to go along with seven assists and six turnovers in the 114-75 Game 6 loss Thursday night.
The Spurs won the series 4-2 and will advance to the Western Conference Finals against the Golden State Warriors.
Twitter was not kind to the MVP candidate:
Rockets: "Hey James Harden. We need a big game from you tonight."

Him: s://t.co/X5hLQHqrhL
Media: James Harden looks disappointed and admits he let his team down. 

James Harden in an hour:

 s://t.co/Ot5qN4L6Mb
James Harden trying to explain another Rockets blow out, this time without Kawhi Leonard s://t.co/LirRd0u9VE
Rockets fans: James Harden the real MVP!!!

Me: jAmeS hArDEn tHe reAL mVp!!! s://t.co/EaUoGPLBak
The "MVP" with as many turnovers (5) as pts at halftime of an elimination game Kawhi's sitting out...

s://t.co/SApoS3gCIN
I apologize to James harden I'm ready to talk and end the curse... it's time to talk and be the leader everyone believes you are - Lil B
James Harden is just a glorified Lou Will
Kawhi was clamping James Harden from the bench.
James Harden looking like the Monstars took all of his basketball talents before the game. s://t.co/FcomRNhVW2

A photo posted by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom)
New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. is all tatted up—so much so that he seems to be running out of space.
On Wednesday, the All-Pro pass-catcher was photographed getting a tattoo on (or really close to) his buttocks.         
Beckham recently turned heads with a super-detailed portrait of late pop star Michael Jackson—a consistent inspiration for touchdown celebrations—on his calf.
A photo posted by Odell Beckham Jr (@obj)
It's unclear what OBJ's latest ink is actually of.
[Instagram]
Cactus jack x Rockets tees for game 6 @HoustonRockets 
See u there s://t.co/FOCPq0RrPJ
Hip-hop artist Travis Scott used to be a ball boy for the Houston Rockets. Now, he's designing their playoff shirts.
On Wednesday, the 25-year-old tweeted out an exclusive shirt design that says "Run As One" in his handwriting across the chest.
All fans in attendance for the team's game at Toyota Center on Thursday night will receive one.
According to the Associated Press (h/t USA Today), the "Goosebumps" rapper will be in the arena to psych up the crowd before the 8 p.m. ET tipoff of Game 6 as the Rockets, down 3-2, try to stay alive in the Western Conference Semifinals against the San Antonio Spurs.
Then, he has to perform at a sold-out show across town at Revention.

Scott has been at several games this postseason, including Game 5 of the first-round series against Oklahoma City, when he sat courtside with Kylie Jenner.

My best friend's parents, Jimmy &amp; Rosalina, met @cmcdavid97 at @FlyEIA today. Possibly the best/most awkward photo of all time? #NHL #oilers s://t.co/yeDUPydWDd
Edmonton Oilers center Connor McDavid was greeted by a pair of fans at the airport Tuesday. He seemed thrilled.
Global News writer Margeaux Morin passed along the photo, which was sent to her by a friend. The couple, Jimmy and Rosalina Valeriano, was able to laugh at how awkward the picture came out.
"I didn't even realize that I was holding him with that grip until I saw the picture," Rosalina said. "I could not remember—I was so excited." She added that her husband was shaking McDavid's hand when the camera flashed.
@MargeauxMorin @cmcdavid97 @FlyEIA Amazing. You can see it, in his eyes. @nielsonTSN1260 @FraserTSN1260 #Oilers #McDavid #Eyes s://t.co/MYVwqPYMBb
The Oilers visit the Anaheim Ducks in Game 7 on Wednesday night for a shot at the conference finals.

Zeke with his golf swing at Cowboys' annual offseason golf tournament: s://t.co/VffAWgebqq
Maybe it's time to bring Tony Romo back.
On Wednesday, the Dallas Cowboys held their annual team golf tournament, and running back Ezekiel Elliott showed off a less-than-stellar swing.
The 21-year-old star could use some tips from the retired Romo, who's known to be a quality golfer. 
Zeke's form wasn't terrible, though; he's no Charles Barkley. But let's just say his future is on the gridiron, not the fairway.

embiid is walking around with a "joel savage embiid" shirt. build the statue. s://t.co/1SedP8KsEi
The Process has a new nickname: Joel "Savage" Embiid.
Earlier this week, the Philadelphia 76ers center was recorded strutting around in a black T-shirt bearing his new, self-proclaimed moniker.
If you're unfamiliar with why this is Embiid's new name, take a scroll through his Instagram feed.
A photo posted by Joel "The Process" Embiid (@joelembiid)
You'll quickly realize "Savage" is fitting.
[Twitter, Instagram]
VIDEO: #Louisville HC Rick Pitino dropping 3's at @MastersHoops National Championships in Coral Springs @NBC6 @NBC6Sports. #GoCards s://t.co/vNLytbWmKU
Louisville Cardinals head coach Rick Pitino said it's been 25 years since he played competitive basketball.
You can't tell.
On Tuesday, the 64-year-old took part in the Masters Basketball Tournament, which is a "highly competitive" league for men ages 40-75 and women 30-plus. He knocked down a few shots from deep, via Chris Fischer of NBC 6:
Pitino back-to-back from 3 point land. #OnFire  then promptly checks out #Louisville 9 points s://t.co/9cAvRpj5ES
Pitino said this is the 1st time he's played organized basketball in 16 years. Finished w/ 9pts (All 3's). #GoCards #Louisville s://t.co/tnk8iXwknQ
Former Cardinals guard Russ Smith was on Pitino about his shot selection:
Ima sub his ass out he take a contested shot s://t.co/zqylnEqyp3
Apparently Pitino is overselling his lack of experience in recent years:
Coach was actually preparing for this tournament.. made 19 shots in a row during an elbow to elbow mid range competition drill vs me 😂
The guy can still play.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Congrats Chuck on your #SportsEmmy win! 😂 #InsidetheNBA s://t.co/KxNZZuYh1F
Charles Barkley knew it was coming.
During Tuesday night's edition of Inside the NBA, it was announced that Chuck won a 2017 Sports Emmy for Outstanding Sports Personality, Studio Analyst.
So, when Kenny "The Jet" Smith took out a couple of champagne bottles, the 54-year-old Barkley braced himself.
Smith gave one to his co-star and poured another all over him. Shaquille O’Neal joined in, curiously slapping Barkley on top of the head as The Jet emptied the bottle.
It was Chuck's second time winning the award.
"You never won a championship, but you won some Emmys, brother!" Smith teased.

Former Washington Huskies guard Markelle Fultz is a staunch protector of the rim—just ask these kids.
In a video posted to NBA Reddit on Tuesday, the potential No. 1 overall pick sent 10 shots flying back despite some creativity from the young hoopsters.
The clip cuts out as one child attempts to posterize Fultz by throwing down a windmill. We can imagine what happened next. 
[h/t Reddit]
anthony davis bored lol s://t.co/sI8kGZfbut
The Houston Rockets and San Antonio Spurs are locked in a competitive conference semifinals showdown, with the winner facing Stephen Curry and his 8-0 Golden State Warriors in the Western Conference Finals. With so much downtime between series, Curry hit the kitchen Tuesday.
The two-time reigning MVP was cooking with his wife, Ayesha, who is opening up her first restaurant in San Francisco this fall.
Anthony Davis didn't think the Chef was much help.
"Man you can't cook lol," the New Orleans Pelicans star teased.
The Brow later joked he was Curry's "biggest fan" and asked if the All-Star point guard could teach him.

On Tuesday, Florida Gators head football coach Jim McElwain denied that he was the naked man mounting a shark in a controversial photo that went viral on Twitter.
"I don't know who it is, but it isn't me," McElwain told Ryan Young of SEC Country. "... In the world we live, what is a story? I just know this: It isn't me."
The man in the picture is still unidentified. You can view it below (Warning: NSFW):
Who is this man? Please RT, find him &amp; ask him why he did this? Where is the humour in humiliating slaughtered animals? @ChrisGPackham s://t.co/uHN37OywCx
[Twitter, h/t theScore]
Nothing makes it past Richard Jefferson's Snapchat account.
After completing a four-game Eastern Conference Semifinals sweep against the Toronto Raptors on Sunday, the 36-year-old forward, LeBron James and Dahntay Jones roasted teammate Channing Frye for doing an interview sans shirt.
"We got you, we got him," Jefferson yelled to his teammate.
"Rock star!" James shouted.
Here's what the exchange looked like from a different point of view:
LOL! Channing Frye probably won't do a shirtless interview again after getting hazed by Lebron &amp; Co. 😂 😂 s://t.co/fjeGNrvJ8T
[Twitter, Streamable, h/t For The Win]
Sunday’s Triple-A matchup between the Reno Aces and Sacramento River Cats at Raley Field was delayed due to a snake on the diamond.
Yes, a snake.
Jack Reinheimer—a prospect for the Arizona Diamondbacks, appropriately enough—spotted the serpent in the bottom of the third inning and alerted the umpires.
"I asked the umpire, 'Do we just keep playing?'” Reinheimer told MiLB.com’s Gerard Gilberto. “I don't know if we're supposed to try and pick it up and get it off the field, but I'm not laying out for a ball if it's right there.”
Dunno, looks like a diamondback to us. @Aces @Dbacks #SnakeGate2017 s://t.co/r025fTKLqu
It turned out to be a harmless garden snake, so the grounds crew shoveled it into a bucket and removed it from the field.
"I was glad I didn't have to like go and grab it or something," Reinheimer said.
The Aces won, 6-5.
[h/t Cut 4]
A photo posted by SportsCenter (@sportscenter)
A parking spot close to the field comes at a price.
In the top of the first inning Sunday, Arizona Wildcats freshman softball player Jessie Harper smashed a grand slam against the UCLA Bruins. It was Harper's 19th blast of the season and, according to the team site, her second grand slam of the week.
Harper’s home run ball soared over the left-field fence and smashed into a car windshield.
That was either bittersweet for an Arizona fan—as the team won the Pac-12 championship, 7-2—or compounded matters for a UCLA supporter.
[Instagram]
Last March, a swarm of bees interrupted the Kansas City Royals’ spring-training game against the Colorado Rockies at Surprise Stadium in Arizona. These insects were everywhere.
On Sunday, they returned.
This time, Kauffman Stadium became one big hive.
They're eating our flesh off! Save yourselves! s://t.co/KPSNNNsEA8
The Kansas City Star passed along video of the bees, which “took refuge” in the upper deck. Luckily, beekeeper Jeff Diekmann is part of the grounds crew.  Last year, the hero was Lowell Hutchison:
Ret. St. Joe, Mo, beekeeper Lowell Hutchison barehanded bees, acknowledge fans applause @KCStar vs @Rockies @Royals s://t.co/AwlNiTQu29
The game was not delayed, and Kansas City fell to the Cleveland Indians, 1-0.
[Twitter, h/t NBC Sports]
Meanwhile at UCMMA s://t.co/cnoqswYpX4
MMA fights typically end in three different ways: submission, knockout or stoppage.
The first two are self-explanatory, but Saturday’s UCMMA 51 event in London put a peculiar spin on the third.
In what was the opening round of the WCMMA Light Heavyweight Title, per Twitter user @Jolassanda, Yu-Joe Lewis Lai (red and white trunks) kept running from his opponent, Beau West.
Clearly injured and trying to buy himself time, Lai went unconventional when presented with a fight-or-flight dilemma, doing everything he could to extend the match.
In the end, the unusual strategy worked, as Lai defeated West via referee stoppage after West was unable to continue after Round 2.
Editor's note: An earlier version of this story said Lai lost the bout at the end of Round 1. We regret the error.
[Twitter, h/t Uproxx]
Though Torrey Smith signed with the Philadelphia Eagles this past winter, the wide receiver is still taking care of Baltimore.
On Saturday, the 28-year-old and his wife paid adoption fees for 46 animals at BARCS Animal Shelter’s “Pawject Runway.” They also made a donation on top of the fees.
According to the organization’s Facebook page, Smith is a regular at the event.
Smith spent the first four years of his NFL career with the Ravens before playing the previous two seasons with the San Francisco 49ers.
[Facebook, h/t Sporting News]
A photo posted by Zaza Pachulia (@zazapachulia)
Golden State Warriors big man Zaza Pachulia never outscores the Splash Brothers. That’s simply not his role.
But in Saturday night’s Game 3 of the Western Conference semifinals versus the Utah Jazz, the bruising big man scored seven points to Thompson’s six—and he made sure to let the world know.
First, Pachulia closed his postgame press conference by ensuring reporters were aware of the point totals, per FiveThirtyEight’s Chris Herring:
Zaza, as he finishes his press conference: "I finished w more points than Klay did."
Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant laughed when told about the stat, via Def Pen Hoops:
Later, Zaza posted a selfie with Thompson, clearly being a good sport, along with the caption “Historical night.”
Even if Thompson doesn't return to his flame-throwing ways in Monday's Game 4, expect him to at least outscore Pachulia.
[Twitter, Instagram]
A photo posted by Cardale Jones (@cardale7_)
The words will echo for all of eternity:
“Why should we have to go to class if we came here to play FOOTBALL,” former Ohio State Buckeyes quarterback Cardale Jones tweeted in October 2012 (h/t Deadspin). “We ain’t come to play SCHOOL, classes are POINTLESS.”
Jones posted the screenshot on his Instagram page Friday:
A photo posted by Cardale Jones (@cardale7_)
On Sunday, the Buffalo Bills backup graduated from OSU, and he did so wearing a cap decorated with his now-infamous quote.
He came to play school! Congrats @Cardale7_ !! #GoBucks s://t.co/EDSIpxzwTQ
Props to Jones for being a good sport, but even more so for getting that degree.
[Instagram, Twitter]
Wow, what a catch. #SCTop10 #WACTop5 s://t.co/SBKBEaB3uK
Grand Canyon Antelopes catcher Griffin Barnes is resourceful.
During the fourth inning of Saturday's game against Seattle University, the redshirt sophomore kept a one-out bunt attempt alive using his off-hand.
Designated hitter Chase Wells tried to lay one down with men on second and third, but Barnes tapped it twice with his right arm before making a diving grab with his left.
Grand Canyon won 19-0.

Why is #LonzoBallLogo ripping off @CoachZachSmith and #Zone6 🤔👀 s://t.co/1x2X20N6u3
Along with the ZO2, his first signature Big Baller Brand shoe, soon-to-be NBA lottery pick Lonzo Ball also debuted a new logo on Thursday.
It’s pretty sweet.
Ohio State Buckeyes wide receivers coach Zach Smith thinks so, too. In fact, he thinks it's his. Here’s the logo Smith created for "Zone 6," a nickname for OSU's receiving corps:
This looks awfully familiar @CoachZachSmith 👀👀 s://t.co/oA6XLNcy4G
The design isn't copyrighted, and it's far from identical, but Smith still felt he was ripped off:
Gonna start my own design firm... logos for any "big time" athlete for a small fee.  #Zone6
If you can't design your own logo... and cop a logo a freaking football coach designed... you're a CLOWN. 💯💯💯 s://t.co/kIlvDadWWM
New Resume Title Added!!! 😂😂🤣🤣 s://t.co/EGIl7NymYv
Lonzo, his father LaVar and the brand have not responded.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]

After getting swept by the Golden State Warriors in Round 1 of the NBA playoffs, Damian Lillard ensured that all postseason bonus money went to Portland Trail Blazers staff members.
According to Jason Quick of CSNNW.com, the star point guard went "from player to player" to ensure that the $16,000 each player received instead went to trainers, massage therapists and others involved with the team.
Quick also reported that veteran free-agent big man Chris Kaman was the one who inspired this back in 2014-15:
With some Blazers teams, the locker room leadership was not always as generous. Three seasons ago, when veteran Chris Kaman joined the team, he became appalled that the Blazers were keeping their playoff checks. Kaman, who became close with Lillard, told him if he ever led a team he should insist on getting the guys to donate to underscore the importance of unity and having one's back.
Props to Lillard for following through and also to his teammates, who should be commended for their generosity. 
[h/t CBSSports.com]
It's going down May 5th &amp; 6th 📦 s://t.co/VmTXMziB72
Eddie Lacy spent the first four years of his NFL career trucking defenders for the Green Bay Packers. Earlier this spring, though, he signed with the Seattle Seahawks.
That left him with an excess of Packers gear.
On Friday, the 26-year-old bruising back held a huge garage sale in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Along with Green Bay apparel and cleats, Lacy also sold his old video games and some of his sponsors' products: 
Early morning prep in Green Bay for @Lil_Eazy_Ana_42's charity garage sale! #EddiesGarageSale s://t.co/Ie2RixC1bH
If you're interested you can also buy some of Eddy Lacy's @tide or @CampbellsChunky for one. @CBS58 @packers @Lil_Eazy_Ana_42 s://t.co/R7BkUgeT9X
Check out what video games @Lil_Eazy_Ana_42 was into during his time in Green Bay @packers @CBS58 s://t.co/ejJX6XRI8j
Packers faithful turned out in droves:
The line to get into #EddiesGarageSale stretches down the block and around the corner from ex-#Packers RB Eddie Lacy's house. s://t.co/oo4cTIBCnd
Line to get into Eddie Lacy's garage sale in Green Bay today (Source: Travis Mason) s://t.co/PzdiwsnQIA
Lacy made it clear that 100 percent of the proceeds are going to charity.


ESPN broadcaster Dick Vitale is taking on the Ball family.
After Lonzo Ball revealed Big Baller Brand's first signature shoe, the ZO2, on Thursday, the 77-year-old Dickie V took to Twitter to poke fun at the kicks' price ($495) and at the lottery-bound point guard:
Lonzo Ball's shoes r $495/if he plays in the @NBA like he did vs BBN De'Aaron Fox they'll go for $4.95 @darrenrovell s://t.co/hz6em0rqu1
All I can say LaVar Ball is doing all he can to have his son disliked by everyone.  @darrenrovell s://t.co/BHmalpxqDI
@Lavarbigballer U better be working with ur guy on D / if he plays D like he did in @NCAA @Isaih_Thomas @JohnWall @StephenCurry30 will light him up for 50!
Vitale was referencing UCLA's Sweet 16 loss to Kentucky back in March, when De'Aaron Fox dropped 39 points on 13-of-20 shooting in an 86-75 Wildcats victory.
It's safe to say Vitale will not be rocking the $220 slides, either.
&amp; Lastly, The ZO2 Slide. s://t.co/gyzHscfA3w

A photo posted by Floyd Mayweather (@floydmayweather)
Floyd Mayweather Jr. remains the world’s richest athlete now that he’s out of retirement, he says, to box MMA superstar Conor McGregor.
On Thursday, the 40-year-old, known as Money, was seen wheeling a tray of cash into his car in Las Vegas as "he gets everything lined up for the opening of his new gentleman's club, ‘Girl Collection.'"
Mayweather told TMZ earlier this week that the Irish lightweight titleholder would have a chance in the boxing ring.
It seems the boxer will keep himself plenty busy as negotiations with McGregor continue.
[Instagram]

According to NFL Network’s Nate Burleson, Marshawn Lynch’s day begins with a workout at the same time every morning: 6:24.
Here’s the former Seattle Seahawks wide receiver on Good Morning Football:
"Yesterday I had lunch with a good friend of mine, Mitch [Grossbach], who actually runs his Beast Mode brand. So we’re just having a conversation about Marshawn Lynch, and he says Marshawn Lynch wakes up every morning at 6:24 a.m.—6:24 a.m.—and does a couple hundred pushups, a couple hundred situps and then gets back in the bed. Every single morning. So, for people who think he’s not in shape, this man has been doing it since he retired."
Burleson confirmed that the peculiar wake-up time is a nod to Lynch’s jersey number.
This anecdote will bring a smile to any Oakland Raiders fan’s face.
Last week, the Silver and Black brought Beast Mode, who was raised in Oakland and remains heavily involved in the community, out of retirement—first trading for him and then agreeing to an incentive-heavy two-year deal:
It's time. s://t.co/sgIQgZlkVM
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Mike Brown says he won't be buying LaVar Ball's $500 signature LO2's...or his $200 pair of flip flops s://t.co/HZwhGchwBA
Golden State Warriors interim head coach Mike Brown is not down with the Big Baller Brand.
After former UCLA star point guard Lonzo Ball revealed the ZO2—the first signature shoe through his family's brand—on Thursday, Steve Kerr's fill-in was asked if he would buy the $495 shoes for his kids.
Brown's laughter echoed throughout the room.
The Sports World is Forever Changed. Introducing Lonzo's 1st Signature Shoe: The ZO2 Prime. s://t.co/5JN1OLxlZS
Big Baller Brand is also selling the ZO2 Slide for $220:
&amp; Lastly, The ZO2 Slide. s://t.co/gyzHscfA3w
Brown had no interest in those either.

A photo posted by Chad Johnson (@ochocinco)
Former NFL wide receiver Chad Johnson is apparently a Big Baller.
After NBA lottery-bound guard Lonzo Ball revealed his first signature shoe, the ZO2, through his family’s brand on Thursday, many balked at the $495 price.
The 39-year-old Ochocinco was all about it.
I dropped $500 on Lonzo Ball, the shoes just happen to come with it‼️ s://t.co/SP7MIad4sU
Johnson seemed to be supporting the former UCLA star, while retired running back Arian Foster supported the fight to compete with sneaker titans Nike, Adidas and Under Armour:
i support the ambition and the road less traveled. much love to the ball family. s://t.co/6SZ1EI2BhG
[Twitter, Instagram, h/t Uproxx]

Adam Jones getting a standing ovation at Fenway Park on Tuesday was a moment. We love moments. Sports, after all, is a collection of them more so than games, seasons, or even careers. You remember Jordan’s jumper over Craig Ehlo like it happened 20 seconds ago, but how much of that actual game can you recall from memory? A moment can be a shorthand for an emotion or a symbol for something greater, which Colin Kaepernick understood when he sat for the playing of the national anthem. It can be more powerful than any word spoken, at least that was the hope Tuesday as the Red Sox faithful stood to shower Jones with affection the day after a single word made him national news.
The thing we often forget about moments, though, is what has led up to them. What was the score of that Bulls/Cavs game? Why was Jordan’s shot so important and why was it so devastating to Cleveland? Why is someone calling a baseball player the N-word in Fenway Park so shocking and reprehensible, so full of gravity, that CC Sabathia would say he’s never been called that in any ballpark except Fenway?

The Red Sox were the last team to integrate, adding their first black player in 1959. Sox owner Tom Yawkey famously tried out Jackie Robinson in 1945, then allowed him and two other Negro Leagues players to be subjected to racist taunts from the stands. Yawkey’s reluctance to sign African-American players would, for years, be associated with the infamous Red Sox curse, eventually lifted in one of those grand “moments” in 2004. But racial animosity persisted at Fenway. In 2013, during the ALCS, a Red Sox fan allegedly screamed “Bye, Trayvon” at a Detroit Tigers fan. (Barry Bonds also refused to play there, telling the Boston Globe that the town was “too racist for me” and that “it ain’t changing.”)
Outside of sports, Boston has a checkered history when it comes to race. In 1965, the state of Massachusetts passed legislation requiring public schools in the state to integrate. After schools in Boston defied the law for nearly a decade, the NAACP sued the Boston School Committee and won. The subsequent busing plan led to flare-ups of violence and racial tension in the mid-1970s, just as the Red Sox, still owned by Yawkey, were on the rise in the American League. In 1975, they went to the World Series but lost to the Cincinnati Reds in seven games. That season, the Sox didn’t start a single African-American position player on Opening Day, though their Cuban pitcher, Luis Tiant, had a father who played in the Negro Leagues.

In 2017, there were only 62 African-American players on Opening Day rosters in Major League Baseball. That’s essentially two African-American players per team, if you divided it equally (and rounded down).
It’s tempting to see this as a moment, a controversy that can simply be clapped away. Even Jones himself felt that the problem could be mitigated by leveling fines. But moments are brief and life goes on. We want to cast this as a symptom of Boston’s segregated culture and geography, or worse, to wave it off as the actions of a few “bad apples.” What so many of us fail to recognize is the world outside the moment, and the inequality that exists outside Boston.

It would feel nice to throw my own, metaphorical peanuts at the city of Boston. After all, here I am in the multicultural paradise of Los Angeles. Every other face you see at Dodger Stadium is brown. The Mexican community here is the heart of our sports fandom, and yet the stadium is an enduring reminder of the Chicano community that was ripped out by former Dodgers owner Walter O’Malley and the city government to make way for baseball in Chavez Ravine. Families were displaced, and a planned public housing development in the area was scrapped.
If we say that Boston is unique, we forget that school busing controversies occurred in places like Los Angeles and Las Vegas, too, and that racist chants can happen anywhere, even a high school basketball game in New Jersey in the year 2017. It’s more comforting to say either “it could never happen here” or “it could only happen there.” It’s dangerous to say that just because you’ve never personally witnessed racism, that there’s no possible way it exists. The Boston crowd cheering for Adam Jones was a hell of a moment, one that wraps a tidy bow on an ugly story—but it was just a moment. We all have to live with the rest of it.
A photo posted by coachdurant (@coachdurant)
University of La Verne strength and conditioning coach Matt Durant is starting his son young.
On Tuesday, the boy—identified as Baby J—put in work in the team weight room. With the players pumping him up, the little guy set a clean "PR."
A photo posted by coachdurant (@coachdurant)
It looked like he used 11-pound rubber plates.
The kid is a beast.
[Instagram]
. #nightlife available Saturday at @vivintarena s://t.co/ySFiGSwPie
On Sunday, Golden State Warriors forward Matt Barnes told ESPN.com's Chris Haynes that the Dubs were hoping to face the Los Angeles Clippers in the Western Conference Semifinals because "there's no comparison to nightlife in Utah and L.A."
Utah Jazz players and executives were listening.
On Monday, Joe Ingles joked with reporters that he would hire a car for Warriors players to go to Las Vegas between games.
On Tuesday, Jazz president Steve Starks previewed a "Nightlife" shirt for the Vivint Smart Home Arena crowd.
Well played.

A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
The Minnesota Twins were sticking Tuesday night.
Highlighted by Miguel Sano's booming blast to center field in the bottom of the third inning against the Oakland Athletics, the home team went deep six times at Target Field:
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 home runs for the #MNTwins tonight!

That's a new team record for home runs in a game at Target Field. s://t.co/UhNA44IlDY
Brian Dozier (two), Jason Castro, Byron Buxton and Joe Mauer also homered in the game.
The 12-11 Twins, who are fourth in the American League Central, led 9-0 after eight innings.
[Twitter, MLB]
Isaiah Thomas' young son has this whole defense thing figured out.
Before taking on the Washington Wizards in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals on Tuesday night, the Boston Celtics star point guard held a mock press conference with his boy.
Isaiah Thomas' son is getting a pregame interview from a pesky reporter. s://t.co/DDPjVyEWrp
I.T. asked him how to stop John Wall, and the little guy had a strong approach:
"I just work hard [at] guarding at my house every day," he said. "... Get fast shoes. I will catch him. I will block his dunk."
It's not the first time one of the point guard's sons has lived the life of an NBA player this postseason:
Isaiah Thomas and his son came ready to play tonight s://t.co/Rsw23xgB4o
Thomas dropped 33 points on 11-of-23 shooting in Sunday's 123-111 Game 1 victory.
[Twitter, YouTube]
A photo posted by The Mets Maniac (@mets_maniac)
Warning: Video contains NSFW language (and lots of it).
This kid has had enough of the New York Mets.
After watching the team suffer a 23-5 bludgeoning at the hands of the Washington Nationals on Sunday, middle school-aged Instagram user @mets_maniac—identified as "just a satire page"—went off the rails in a rant for the ages.
"[Noah] Syndergaard: Get out of here, you little Barbie doll," he yelled. "Get the f--k out of here."
Manager Terry Collins, who was addressed as "you little orange," wasn't safe either.
Sunday's beatdown pushed the Mets' record to 10-14. A day later, the Mets announced their ace suffered "a partial tear of the right lat muscle."
This kid could be in for a long season.
[Instagram, h/t New York Daily News]

Sunday night's Game 7 loss to the Utah Jazz marked the end of Paul Pierce's career.
The Los Angeles Clippers forward—who will be most remembered for his days with the Boston Celtics—leaves behind an impressive resume: 
That's it for @paulpierce34: 19 seasons, 170 playoff games, 26,000-plus points and one title. A first ballot Hall of Famer.
Two of the Truth's greatest rivals, Kobe Bryant and Dwyane Wade, congratulated him on the conclusion of a Hall of Fame career:
Congrats on a hall of fame career @paulpierce34 #truth #HOF
Congrats to The Truth @paulpierce34 on ONE hell of a career! #FutureHOF
Former teammate Jared Sullinger and NBA veteran Jared Dudley did too:
Thank you OG @paulpierce34
Congrats @paulpierce34 .. helluva career! You def inspired me as a boy! Enjoy retirement! s://t.co/p2apC7xe9U
So did a few current Celtics, Clippers and Pierce's longtime coach, Doc Rivers, in a Players' Tribune video:
From @KobeBryant to Kevin Garnett, NBA legends say farewell to @PaulPierce34 s://t.co/TSPvCbimjN
Kevin Garnett passed along some pictures of the two over the years:
THE TRUTH. 

Congrats on an incredible #NBA career, @paulpierce34! s://t.co/5iSbLepeEe

Hope this shows you the devil is alive and well.. to straight disrespect someone dead grandmother and think it's funny is crazy to me. s://t.co/KyD29ILQHi
Atlanta Falcons first-round pick Takkarist McKinley turned heads at the NFL draft by letting a few curse words fly on stage while holding a picture of his deceased grandmother.
"Fine me later, man!" he said.
On Monday, NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reported that, despite his willingness to pay up, the former UCLA defensive end will not be fined:
New #Falcons LB Takk McKinley famously said on stage “fine me later” after cursing post-pick. No worries. Source said he won’t be fined 💯💯💯
The night before, though, McKinley sparred on Twitter with Fox Sports' Clay Travis, who commented extensively on the decision to carry the picture around. 
It's important to note that Travis didn't seem to be poking fun at McKinley's grandmother. His point was about the picture itself. 
Is taking a life size picture of your dead grandma to the NFL Draft weird or cool?
Dropping the GD with a portrait of his dead Grandma in his arms. That’s next level. s://t.co/Rjw33A7QP0
This is incredible. s://t.co/zajkvvBsEo
I can’t stop thinking about the Grandma picture. This might be the entire first hour of @outkick tomorrow. Did he buy the picture a seat?
McKinley caught wind of Travis' tweets and fired back, writing that "the devil is alive and well...to straight disrespect someone['s] dead grandmother and think it's funny is crazy to me."
  
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
Isaiah Thomas was nowhere near Las Vegas on Sunday afternoon, but the Boston Celtics star still lost a tooth in a wild scene.
Just like Stu from The Hangover.
In Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals against the Washington Wizards, the 5'9" All-Star poured in 33 points on 11-of-23 shooting despite catching an elbow to the mouth from Otto Porter in the first quarter.
Thomas picked up his tooth, handed it to a trainer and continued playing. It was later "repositioned" as Boston rolled to a 123-111 win.
Shoot your shot. s://t.co/oIBmy1CyGB
The squeaky wheel gets the grease, and the persistent New York Jets fan gets the player he wants.
On Sunday, Gang Green's Twitter account shared a screenshot of the tireless @KyleTeichert, who direct-messaged the team every day (at peculiar times) with a plea to draft LSU Tigers safety Jamal Adams.
New York selected Adams with the No. 6 pick in Thursday's NFL draft.
The pictures only show @KyleTeichert's January messages, but it wouldn't be shocking if he stayed with it right up until draft day.

You'd think retired NBA legend Kobe Bryant would be a good resource for his oldest daughters, who play youth hoops.
Apparently, they don't care for the Mamba's wisdom.
Last week, Bryant told Jimmy Fallon on The Tonight Show that two of his three daughters, 14-year-old Natalia and 10-year-old Gianna, have no use for his help when on the floor.
The 38-year-old five-time champion laughed it off, though.
Perhaps Bryant's youngest daughter, four-month-old Bianka Bella, will value her father's basketball credentials a bit more.
A photo posted by Kobe Bryant (@kobebryant)
[The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon]
Steps celebration s://t.co/PdFUwWUz9h
Trash talk often cuts deepest when it's true.
After the Penguins took a 2-0 series lead against the Capitals in the second round of the NHL playoffs Saturday night, some Pittsburgh fans trolled Washington with a "second round runner-up" banner.
As noted by For The Win's Hemal Jhaveri, the Caps haven't advanced past Round 2 since 1998.
Game 3 is set for Monday at 7:30 p.m. ET.
  
😲😂 Chicago Bears fans with a priceless reaction to the Bears moving up to draft Mitch Trubisky  #NFLDraft s://t.co/0gdNHJPTN4
Chicago Bears fans were far from thrilled after the team gave up a slew of assets to move up one spot and draft North Carolina quarterback Mitchell Trubisky on Thursday night. 
Let's look at some reactions, from angry to downright painful.
1) That's a fair complaint by the guy up top. Chicago gave Mike Glennon a guaranteed $18.5 million over three years back in March.
2) This kid seemed angry, but not completely devastated:
My brother is super happy about Mitchell Trubisky to the Bears s://t.co/8TMknY4Bw2
3) Warning: NSFW language.
You have to feel for this last fan. 
@barstoolsports @BarstoolBigCat I guess you could say my Dad didn't like Bears trading for Trubisky s://t.co/e6zS2ymonZ
  
LaVar Ball walking into Sketchers offices s://t.co/f132W6nZKc
On Friday, ESPN.com's Darren Rovell broke news that Nike, Adidas and Under Armour will not sign Lonzo Ball and have no interest in licensing Big Baller Brand apparel.
Striking out with the sneaker industry's titans would get most people down. Not Lonzo's outspoken father, LaVar Ball.
"We've said from the beginning, we aren't looking for an endorsement deal. We're looking for co-branding, a true partner," he told Rovell. "But they're not ready for that because they're not used to that model. But hey, the taxi industry wasn't ready for Uber either."
Once Twitter caught wind of the ever-polarizing Ball family's latest episode, it became a free-for-all: 
Big Baller Brand Lonzo 1s leaked! s://t.co/KhUn7h7gkH
@darrenrovell y tho? s://t.co/0NzlH5sVix
s://t.co/NkQM5ulcLY
Big Baller Brand gonna strike a deal with Li Ning and have a billion Chinese kids wearing ugly shoes / taking ugly 30-foot threes. s://t.co/x6wCcD3HuL
@BrodyLogan  s://t.co/Os9OyVaaJM
LaVar and Lonzo Ball walking out of every sneaker meeting like s://t.co/pXa1fE0RMT
Jesus didn't wear shoes, neither will my boys. We don't need Nike, Adidas or UA
LaVar walking into @PUMA headquarters right now... s://t.co/vyO0oioY7V
LaVar Ball to shoe companies, basically: s://t.co/XxFCf7i9g9
  

There's no denying Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver John Ross is a total blur. In March, the former Washington Huskies star broke Chris Johnson's 40-yard dash record with a 4.22 at the NFL Scouting Combine. 
But is he faster than the fastest man alive? 
Prior to getting picked ninth overall by the Bengals, Ross extended a challenge to Olympic sprinter Usain Bolt.
"In a 40-yard dash, I think I'd get Usain Bolt," the smiling 22-year-old said, via the NFL's Facebook page.
Ross did his homework too, referencing this ESPN Sport Science clip:
Watched as a kid as was thankful with the opportunity to be on the show, Thank you SportsScience! s://t.co/X5Nkh4kNa3
We await Bolt's response.
[Facebook]
Awkward Kiss Cam Moment Number 324... s://t.co/bA52qa5ndq
Funny Kiss Cam stunts are all the rage.
Sometimes a team's mascot will throw a drink on some jerk who won't participate, for example. These planned skits are meant to rile up the home crowd.
This was not one of those.
During Thursday night's loss to the Toronto Raptors, the Milwaukee Bucks made things real awkward at BMO Harris Bradley Center when the Kiss Cam landed on a mother and son.
"She's my mom," the guy said, shaking his head. 
His mom's reaction? 


Brought my boy @KDTrey5 some #Cupcakes today... Good Luck in the Postseason @warriors #BayAreaUnite #ChampionsEatCupcakes #DubNation #SFG s://t.co/Ge68rvh3Ut
Cupcakes have played a crucial role in the beef between former Oklahoma City Thunder teammates Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant.
On Thursday night, Durant seemed to add fuel to this fire.
While posing for a picture with San Francisco Giants mascot Lou Seal, No. 35 proudly held a plate of the small desserts, a reference that goes all the way back to the day he joined the Golden State Warriors.
Hours after Durant's announcement, Westbrook posted an Instagram picture of a Fourth of July-themed cupcake display.
Sports Illustrated's Lee Jenkins confirmed in October that it was Westbrook's way of calling Durant's decision "soft": 
A photo posted by Russell Westbrook (@russwest44)
Then, when Durant returned to Chesapeake Energy Arena as a visitor in February, the OKC faithful showered him with "cupcake" chants and shirts:
There are a LOT of cupcake signs, t-shirts, etc, in the arena tonight, btw. 
Also...this... s://t.co/kWRyjvEUjP
Draymond Green and other Warriors players wore the shirts after demolishing the Thunder:
Keep tabs on Westbrook's Instagram in the coming days. Maybe he'll find another cupcake platter to post in response.
[h/t SB Nation, Twitter, Instagram]  
Incredible moment.

@DeshaunWatson4 is brought to tears as he reads a letter from his mom. #NFLDraft s://t.co/8Z0QMTfuxT
The NFL draft can be emotional—especially for players who were "not supposed to be here."
After being selected 12th overall by the Houston Texans on Thursday night, former Clemson Tigers star quarterback Deshaun Watson read a letter from his mother. It talked about "love, happiness and longtime success," drawing tears from the 21-year-old.
The letter closed with a 2013 rap line: "In the words of Drake, we made it. Love, Mom."
Watson, the hero of the 2017 NCAA championship game against Alabama, was clearly touched.
[h/t For The Win, Twitter]  

It's the most wonderful time of the year, at least if your idea of wonderful is in-depth analysis of college football prospects. Looking to get a slightly clearer (but still extremely inaccurate) picture of which NFL teams will select which players, and in which round of the draft they will select said players? You have options.
Given how many variables go into NFL front office decisions, mock drafts are a futile exercise, yet we all read them anyway—and, as the folks over at Twitter noticed, tweet about them.
Hot draft takes have flooded even the most mock-agnostic timelines for the past few weeks, and since the draft starts Thursday, the timing was perfect to crunch the numbers for a consensus Twitter mock: Which teams and players were mentioned together by the 328 million or so Twitter users the most?
The Twitter data team took a sample size of one week's worth of tweets (April 13-20) and now delivers the definitive Twitter NFL mock draft. If a player was mentioned the same number of times with multiple teams, Twitter deferred to the organization with the higher draft pick. Of the top 10, four match up with Bleacher Report's latest mock—so either our takes are hot or Twitter is more is more realistic than we thought.

On the night of the draft, Twitter will also be tracking which players get the most buzz based on the number of tweets/mentions-per-minute they get, which will help predict the draft's most popular stories.
Do your #takes match up with those of the Twitterverse? Check out the results of the mock draft below, exclusive to Bleacher Report:
1. Cleveland Browns: Myles Garrett, DE
"Jersey Swap" Myles Garrett to the Browns. (I know, it's awful and I didn't do a helmet, but it was my first try.) Thoughts? s://t.co/d9ImLdED4J
2. San Francisco 49ers: Solomon Thomas, DE
3. Chicago Bears: Deshaun Watson, QB
Here's hoping the Bears draft DeShaun Watson s://t.co/mRvl1D1gXu
4. Jacksonville Jaguars: Leonard Fournette, RB
5. Tennessee Titans: Corey Davis, WR
Corey Davis visiting the #Titans? s://t.co/rVrvBwPonq
6. New York Jets: Marshon Lattimore, CB
7. Los Angeles Chargers: Malik Hooker, S
Avec le 7ieme choix, les Los Angeles Chargers choisissent... Malik Hooker, Safety de Ohio State !!  #draft2017nflfrance s://t.co/fAuE1h3wSw
8. Carolina Panthers: Christian McCaffrey, RB
When I see reports that the Panthers are considering taking Christian McCaffrey at #8 s://t.co/hVVSVE4VGf
9. Cincinnati Bengals: Reuben Foster, LB
10. Buffalo Bills: Mitchell Trubisky, QB
11. New Orleans Saints: Jamal Adams, S
12. Cleveland Browns: Patrick Mahomes, QB
13. Arizona Cardinals: John Ross, WR
14. Philadelphia Eagles: Joe Mixon, RB
Eagles Fans when we draft Joe Mixon. s://t.co/Z4Ln6SX5Iu
15. Indianapolis Colts: Ryan Ramczyk, OT
16. Baltimore Ravens: Mike Williams, WR
One more week until Mike Williams or Corey Davis. @Ravens s://t.co/OzGa0Oo9C6
17. Washington Redskins: Dalvin Cook, RB
18. Tennessee Titans: O.J. Howard, TE
19. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Josh Jones, S
20. Denver Broncos: Cam Robinson, OT
21. Detroit Lions: Haason Reddick, LB
22. Miami Dolphins: Forrest Lamp, OG
23. New York Giants: David Njoku, TE
@DigitalMayne I will be very excited if the Giants get Howard or Njoku lol s://t.co/6VqS4uYDe2
24. Oakland Raiders: Chidobe Awuzie, CB
25. Houston Texans: Garett Bolles, OT
26. Seattle Seahawks: Malik McDowell, DT
27. Kansas City Chiefs: Jarrad Davis, LB
28. Dallas Cowboys: T.J. Watt, OLB
29. Green Bay Packers: Quincy Wilson, CB
30. Pittsburgh Steelers: Obi Melifonwu, S
31. Atlanta Falcons: Jabrill Peppers, S
32. New Orleans Saints: Charles Harris, OLB
A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
Chris Coghlan refused to get tagged Tuesday night.
In the seventh inning of his Toronto Blue Jays' showdown with the St. Louis Cardinals, the 31-year-old went full-on Major League and flipped over catcher Yadier Molina to reach home safely. Molina, anticipating a slide, froze as Coghlan took flight.
Willie Mays Hayes would be proud of this effort.
This is amazing s://t.co/JNDhjTSBVg
Toronto took a 3-2 lead on Coghlan's somersault.
[MLB, Twitter]
Death is coming for the Thunder tonight! Pics via @mrmedders s://t.co/qZQMLjyaB0
James Harden, Eric Gordon and Nene entered the Toyota Center in all black before hosting the Oklahoma City Thunder in Game 5 of the teams' first-round playoff series Tuesday.
"Funeral colors," former New York Knicks big man Kenyon Martin once said.
While perhaps it was a coincidence, the Rockets were likely trying to send a message that the Thunder's hopes of coming back from a 3-1 deficit were dead.
Win or lose, Russell Westbrook—friend of the media—needs to be asked about this.
Russ was NOT having it 😂 s://t.co/JLTG7H3R7I


The NBA's deadline to declare for the draft was 11:59 p.m. ET Sunday.
USC Trojans guard Elijah Stewart missed it.
According to CBS Sports' Jon Rothstein and DraftExpress' Jonathan Givony, Stewart intended on entering the draft but forgot to submit the necessary paperwork:
Elijah Stewart initially intended to declare for NBA Draft without an agent, but never submitted letter, per a source. Headed back to USC.
Am told USC's Elijah Stewart intended to declare for the draft, as we reported, but he unfortunately forgot to submit the paperwork to NBA.
The list of draft-eligible players was released Tuesday. Stewart's name was notably absent, as Joey Kaufman of the Orange County Register highlighted:
USC guard Elijah Stewart is not among the 182 early entrants for the NBA Draft, according to the official list. s://t.co/SQXa6mXqtH
Players who declare can still return to school as long as they don't hire an agent.

Goat Popovich  left a $5,000 tip s://t.co/9yFP6SDYNl
Gregg Popovich is a better tipper than he is a basketball coach—and that's saying something.
According to a Tuesday post by an NBA Reddit user, the 68-year-old San Antonio Spurs head coach left a $5,000 tip on an $815.73 bill at McEwen's, a Memphis restaurant, the day before his team lost to the Grizzlies in Game 4 of the teams' first-round playoff series.
The restaurant owner would not say whether Popovich had dined there recently, according to Kelsey Bradshaw of the San Antonio Express-News, but the signature looks like his. Plus, Bradshaw noted McEwen's is known for its wine selection.
And we all know Pop loves his wine.
Note: The original Reddit post has been deleted because the photo of the bill included the last four digits of the credit card.
[Twitter, h/t San Antonio Express-News]  
583 lbs squat. Easy work for @DhaSickest. s://t.co/BCFPM8BtqD
Everybody loves talking about how much of a force former LSU Tigers running back Leonard Fournette is.
Let's not forget about Derrius Guice.
On Monday, the SEC Network passed along video of the junior—who led the Tigers in carries, rushing yards and rushing scores in 2016 as Fournette missed all but seven games with an ankle injury—squatting 583 pounds.
The footage came from a March workout (warning: NSFW language):
This how we coming!!! #583Ibs s://t.co/v66qsiygtb
Guice made that look easy.
It makes sense, though. You can't do this without stellar lower-body strength:
[h/t NOLA.com, Twitter]
Adult Clippers fan who cheap-shots a kid Jazz fan gets his own when laid out by Jazz Bear. Classic.  s://t.co/uHukfxfiRQ
Justice, thy name is Jazz Bear.
During a stoppage in Sunday night's clash between fifth-seeded Utah and the fourth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers, the Jazz mascot absolutely drilled an enemy fan who knocked over a young boy in a bubble-ball race.
The kid, who was wearing a Rudy Gobert jersey, got up and won the race as everyone at Vivint Smart Home Arena rejoiced. Oh, and the bully was in shambles: 
.@LAClippers @utahjazz Oh wow. That fan looked in bad nick. Even the Jazz announcer asked "Is he OK?" s://t.co/vx6srX5En9
Now, let's get it out there: This was definitely one of those planted pranks that have become common on kiss cams.
But like the WWE, there's nothing wrong with enjoying some staged vigilante justice.

Warning: NSFW language.
Like most Twitter users, Kevin Durant enjoys a good meme now and then. 
In the second episode of his YouTube series, Still KD, the Golden State Warriors superstar cracked up at the viral GIF of Draymond Green's intense pep talk.
KD was talking about tweets like these: 
When you're the MC at church, and they're telling you the list of announcements during praise and worship. s://t.co/bkUoth609w
When ya homie been lying to his girl all night and you helping him get his story straight before he goes home  s://t.co/0FAnn535nq
This really how your drunk self be talking to your self when you're in the bathroom at a party s://t.co/XQyyaPT3Zt
"Look... if she asks you where I was last night, tell her I was at your crib playing 2k all day" 

 s://t.co/VsOYFMAE6U
With Golden State up 3-0, Durant is questionable for Game 4 against the Portland Trail Blazers on Monday night.

Performing under the name Juice, Pittsburgh Steelers running back Le'Veon Bell has produced a number of hip-hop records in the past few years. In March, he released a mixtape titled The Interview. 
Sunday night brought another first for the NFL's premier all-purpose back—his first music video.
Hanging out in a warehouse for "Machine," Bell raps about the Golden State Warriors and how he, himself, is machine-like. It's no "Shrimp Bayless," but it's solid.
At one point, Bell is hanging in front of what appears to be a Steelers logo. But look a bit closer:

Well played, Juice.
[YouTube]  
A photo posted by Fabolous (@myfabolouslife)
While in Philadelphia for Chris Brown’s "The Party Tour," rapper Fabolous met up with Sixers rookie Ben Simmons.
Apparently, Fab kept the point guard waiting.
In an Instagram picture posted Sunday night, the 39-year-old “Into You” rapper poked fun at Simmons’ injury-ravaged rookie season:
“[W]hen @bensimmons ask you why you had him sittiin out in the hallway so long & you tell him shouldn't you be useta sittin out by now? (don't think he like the joke tho)”
Simmons fired back, writing on his own page that he wished Future performed instead:
A photo posted by Ben Simmons (@bensimmons)
This seems like it was all in good fun.
Don’t be surprised if we see Fabolous—notorious for his love of all things throwback—rocking an LSU jersey soon.
[Instagram]
Bit ae that @SkyBet s://t.co/Yuyff8yiWk
Scottish soccer fan Lewis Elliott struck gold over the weekend.
On Saturday, he played a three-game parlay under a specific stipulation: Every team had to score at least once in each half.
Elliott wasn't picking winners—he simply bet the rough equivalent of $4 U.S. that a surplus of balls would find the net. It turned into over $26,000.
The reality of what was at play seemed to set in before Chelsea and Tottenham played: 
Jesus s://t.co/CE0LM8Psun
Sky Bet posted confirmation of Elliott's winnings after Chelsea beat Tottenham, 4-2.
.@ChelseaFC Confirmation of the winning slip from @LewisElli0t 🏆

It's #bettingbetter... enjoy your winnings! s://t.co/AaTjmEvNUe
Elliott posted another picture to prove the screenshot wasn't doctored:
.@SkyBet  s://t.co/zBqQ1sxc6c
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]  
This is what efficiency looks like.
On April 5, New York bowler Ben Ketola used 10 lanes to complete a perfect game in 86.9 seconds, which is believed to be a world record, per M.F. Piraino for Syracuse.com.
The two-handed bowler rolled and ran—there was no time for standing and watching. After going 12-for-12, though, he celebrated.
Ketola, who works at 281 Bowl, said he was inspired by a 2015 video of professional bowler Tom Daugherty, who performed the feat in one minute, 50.99 seconds. Ketola said he bowls at least 50 games a week, and his average is 225.
"It was fun to do. I honestly wasn't expecting to do it," he told Piraino. "I just wanted to see how quickly I could get across the house and get strikes."
[YouTube, h/t For The Win]
A photo posted by Von Miller (@vonmiller)
Von Miller and Cam Newton's silent fashion battle continued at Coachella.
The Carolina Panthers' star quarterback recently wore a floral shirt-and-shorts combination—along with a hat, of course—at the California music festival.
A photo posted by Cam Newton (@cameron1newton)
On Saturday, the stud Denver Broncos linebacker put his own fashion spin on Coachella. Miller didn't go floral, though.
He went full cowboy—fur vest and all.
Miller also met up with Houston Texans wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins:
A photo posted by Von Miller (@vonmiller)
[Instagram]
This definitely put a smile on my face. ☺️ the little things. s://t.co/OFKpwcho5H
On Friday, Atlanta Falcons wide receiver Mohamed Sanu received a letter from the family sitting behind him on a flight.
It thanked him for being a good role model for their 10-year-old son, a travel hockey player heading to Connecticut. The parents praised Sanu for studying plays, eating healthy, being polite and being an overall "inspiration to children."
Sanu seemed touched.
Athletes and celebrities are always being watched. Props to the 27-year-old receiver for making that a positive.

A photo posted by Rob Gronkowski (@gronk)
Even when Rob Gronkowski isn't out partying, he's still the life of the party.
During his set at the Number Fest in Ohio on Friday, rapper Waka Flocka Flame FaceTimed with the New England Patriots tight end while performing on stage.
Remember, Waka and Gronkowski have history—he performed on the infamous Gronk's Party Ship last summer.
According to DJ Whoo Kid, though, he and Waka were banned from the cruise for what TMZ called a "poop prank."
Maybe this summer Gronk can just FaceTime them instead.
[Instagram]
It's official. The #Cowboys need to draft a #CB at 28. Anthony Brown's tattoo is release-worthy. s://t.co/LhnwV0IEXu
Dallas Cowboys cornerback Anthony Brown will enter his second NFL season with a chip on his shoulder.
A salty-, crunchy-looking potato chip.
On Friday, Brown posted the above tattoo on his Instagram page—with the caption "Been playing with a chip on my shoulder all my life"—but later deleted it. Fans have been commenting on his most recent post about the chip picture.                                      
@Marcus_Mosher .Fixed. s://t.co/DtLpEQyGlz
Props to Brown for the amusing ink.           

A photo posted by Thomas Rawls (@t.rawls810)
It looks like Seattle Seahawks running back Thomas Rawls is handling his team's acquisition of presumed starter Eddie Lacy pretty well.
Over the weekend, the 23-year-old posted a picture of himself straddling an alligator. Based on his recent posts, it seems he's at Gatorland, a family attraction in Orlando, Florida.
A photo posted by Thomas Rawls (@t.rawls810)
A photo posted by Thomas Rawls (@t.rawls810)
The kid's face in the background of the first picture tells you all you need to know.
[Instagram]
When the dog wants to play catch with the puck on the ice at Verizon Center, you play catch with the dog on the ice at Verizon Center. 🐶 s://t.co/UWMZ75TVmE
Somewhere, Air Bud is smiling.
Before defeating the Arizona Coyotes, 4-1, on Saturday, the Washington Capitals let a golden retriever play fetch with a police officer on the ice.
The dog took a few spills, but its ability to navigate the slippery ice without skates was impressive.
Oh, wait—there's Air Bud:
@CSNCapitals GOOD DOG
  
Jordan Spieth played a Masters practice round with Tom Brady: s://t.co/vqGNxiLzDE s://t.co/l34dxr5MeU
Reigning Super Bowl MVP Tom Brady hit the links with 2015 Masters winner Jordan Spieth on Monday.
He posted a picture alongside his 23-year-old fellow Under Armour athlete from Hogan Bridge at Augusta National Golf Club.
TB-12 said in the caption that trying to beat Spieth in golf "is like trying to arm wrestle [Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson]."
Translation: It's impossible.
T.J. Auclair of PGA.com pointed out that "No. 12, as you remember, is the hole that did in Spieth at last year's Masters when he took a five-shot lead into the back nine."
The Masters begin April 6.
[Instagram, Golf Digest]  
Over the weekend, an alligator at Florida's Long Marsh golf course in Rotonda West chomped down on a player's ball before slowly returning to the water.
This was a normal-sized gator—not one of those CGI-looking ones—but it was certainly intimidating. Was its decision to snack on the ball all that surprising, though?
Daniel McNamara told WPTV Channel 5 he was on the third hole when his ball hit the reptile. Interesting that the camera was already out.
Pro tip: If you don't want an alligator to eat your ball, don't hit said alligator with said ball.
[h/t WPTV]
.@10TV sooooo who the hell won the basketball game? s://t.co/qXP9tkOMrV
This is the stuff of nightmares.
Instead of watching the Kentucky Wildcats and North Carolina Tar Heels duke it out in an exhilarating Elite Eight finish Sunday night, college basketball fans in Ohio were forced to look at a black screen.
As noted by SB Nation's Morgan Moriarty, "the CBS local news station in the area cut into the game's feed for a breaking news alert for severe weather in the area." The channel was blank aside from a strip across the top that read "weather alert."
Here are some examples:
I wish I was watching the basketball game s://t.co/u6SmilL5Lw
SOMEONE TELL ME WHAT IS HAPPENING s://t.co/rHPu9A4PHb
Shout-out to @10TV for cutting into the end of the game with a black screen. I sure hope nothing crazy happened! s://t.co/CGTGpqtenj
Here was my view of the buzzer-beater. Thanks @10TV. s://t.co/fKEii9I52H
Some made light of the untimely blackout, but missing that type of finish had to be devastating.
[Twitter, h/t SB Nation]

Video games are often the best tool for fans to see how opposing superstars would look in their favorite team's laundry, but as it turns out, the pros do it too.
Safety Tony Jefferson told NFL.com's Brooke Cersosimo he checked out Madden NFL to see how he looked in the uniforms of his free-agent suitors, landing on the Baltimore Ravens and favoring the team's black-on-black alternate combo.
"I am a guy of swagger, so I gotta check the swag at all points before I make a decision," Jefferson said. "I put myself in different uniforms on Madden to see what will look better. Ravens did look good, though."
Jefferson didn't just pick the Ravens because of their uniforms, as he explained to The MMQB's Andy Benoit, but Ben Haumiller, a producer for Madden, tells Bleacher Report the EA Sports team regularly interacts with players, mostly fielding complaints over their in-game ratings.

"Everyone has an opinion, especially about themselves," Haumiller says. "We're not going to bend over backwards for anybody and make everyone a 99 just to make people feel happy. It's got to be grounded in reality and comparative to the rest of the league. People's 40 times go a long way to dictating their speed rating. Their three-cone drill does a lot for their agility."
One player complaint, however, sticks out.
New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. was not happy with his speed rating his rookie season. Beckham reached out to Madden to complain, and the producers wanted definitive proof. So after practice one day, Beckham filmed a hand-held video where he raced against teammates with higher speed ratings in the game. Along with the video came a note.
"I'm faster than you guys give me credit for," Beckham wrote.
It was enough for the Madden team to boost up the rating. Beckham started his rookie season in the 70s but ended the year in the low 90s.
Trying to get my @EAMaddenNFL receiving rating up! s://t.co/PSjrVX7z8B
"That happens a lot," Haumiller says. "If they can show us some sort of proof, if they can prove what they did or if they didn't lift at the combine because of a shoulder injury, if they can prove what they did bench back when they were healthy, we can use that to inform ratings."
Often players will take their complaints about their attributes directly to Twitter or vocalize their displeasure in the media.
Raiders punter Marquette King complained about his throwing power on a podcast and wanted a boost. After discussions with some Madden producers, King's throwing power was upgraded, but—as the Beckham case showed—it's not always easy to get a higher rating in the game.

In terms of Tony Jefferson, though, Haumiller was surprised to hear about the video game's role in the San Diego native's life-changing decision.
"We've heard a lot of players over the years talk about their affinity for Madden and their love for Madden," Haumiller says. "This is a first for us, though. I don't think I've ever heard of any player who said he cycled through uniform options to help decide where they were going to go."
Haumiller says the team at Madden previously had a dialogue with Jefferson when the Ravens safety realized his face wasn't scanned into the game. Jefferson, however, said he remembered going through the process before he stepped foot onto an NFL field.
"He started tweeting at us," Haumiller says. "We found his scan, and it's going through the pipes right now, so he's got a face in the game this year from the scan he did with us previously." Most players get their face scanned into the game during the NFL combine.

Haumiller says the game still holds a lot of utility for players in other ways as well. Often, it can serve as the benchmark for players to finally process that they've made the NFL.
For foreign players, such as Bjoern Werner and Moritz Boehringer, it can serve as a training tool to understand the game. Former NFL running back Ahman Green uses Madden to help teach concepts to the teams he coaches.
But first and foremost, it serves as a barometer for many players to stack themselves against one another.
"Historically, Emmitt Smith was the only guy who said he was too fast in Madden," Haumiller says. "Every year, players complain about their speed. Now they know everything about the game and they've got a direct pipeline. If they don't like it, they're going to let us know."
UK fans at the Tin Roof react in the seconds before the game expires. #Limestone #BBN s://t.co/xXwk7YKw15
Big Blue Nation fans at a bar in Lexington experienced a roller coaster of emotions in the final seconds of the Kentucky Wildcats' loss Sunday night.
First, freshman Malik Monk sent them into a frenzy with a clutch three-pointer that evened the score at 73 against the North Carolina Tar Heels with 7.2 seconds left.
UNC countered on its next possession, though. Sophomore Luke Maye buried a game-winner with 0.3 seconds left, and those poor bar patrons collapsed into a puddle of devastation.
Here's another look at what appears to be a different bar. You can see the exact moment they realize their Final Four hopes are gone:
The final seconds of the Kentucky-North Carolina game was an emotional roller coaster for Big Blue fans. #marchmadness #WKYT s://t.co/4AZEFQ8Avi
North Carolina fans can understand. They experienced similar heartbreak after Villanova Wildcats forward Kris Jenkins answered Marcus Paige's triple to win the national title last year.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
@DavidGrzyTV yes I do s://t.co/qpHIM0xJM6
Luke Maye is the absolute definition of a student-athlete.
After burying the second-seeded Kentucky Wildcats with a game-winning jumper Sunday night, the North Carolina Tar Heels sophomore made it back from the FedExForum in Memphis, Tennessee, in time for an 8 a.m. class Monday.
The life of Luke Maye: 7 pm: hits game winning shot against Kentucky to send UNC to final four. 8am next day: Busi 101 class standing O s://t.co/b1aeFGKqRE
Oh, and he sat in the front row.
Maye's classmates gave him a well-deserved standing ovation after he booked the Tar Heels' trip to the Final Four.

LaVar Ball has made it clear he thinks that in his prime, he could've overpowered NBA icon Michael Jordan in a one-on-one game.
To the tape we go.
Over the weekend, video emerged of Lonzo Ball's dad playing in a 2002 men's league contest in Chino, California, according to YouTube user David Lee, who played in the game. The video picked up steam when re-posted by The Hoops Column page. Lee also posted footage on his Twitter account.
The video is edited, so it should be taken with a grain of salt. Ball has a couple of highs and several lows:
If Lee's timeline is correct, the 48-year-old Ball would be 33 in this video.
[Twitter, YouTube, h/t Charlotte Observer]

Years before LaVar Ball and his sons—including NBA-bound UCLA Bruins guard Lonzo Ball—became a national story, he was a professional football player.
As uncovered by ESPN.com's Rich Cimini, Ball was at the bottom of the New York Jets depth charts in the mid-1990s. He was a defensive end in his rookie year under Pete Carroll but changed to a tight end a year later once Rich Kotite took over.
LaVar Ball was a member of the #Jets training camp in 94 &amp; 95 😳

(📸 Via @RichCimini) s://t.co/V2dYkOHShl
Ball never appeared in an NFL game, but Cimini reported it's possible he checked in during the preseason.
Former linebacker Marvin Jones told Cimini that he remembers Ball "very well."
"He was a very athletic guy and raw," Jones said. "I remember him very well because he played only one year of college football. I remember a very confident guy and, yes, he voiced his opinion and was cocky, but overall seemed like a great guy."
On March 13, USA Today's Josh Peter passed along Ball's take on trying out for the Washington State football team as a tight end in the basketball offseason:
[Head coach Dennis] Erickson said, "Oh, you're awesome, you're good to go. But LaVar, they're going to know it's a different play if we don't have you blocking." I go, "Well, you got these big dudes, let them block. And I'll tell you this, out of four downs, I need the ball twice. If I don't have it twice, I'm gone."
He seemed like the same guy back then.
[h/t ESPN.com]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
This play embodies how things have been going for the Atlanta Hawks.
During the team's seventh straight loss Sunday afternoon, Brooklyn Nets second-year forward Rondae Hollis-Jefferson climbed the ladder on Hawks rookie Taurean Prince.
It looked like RHJ exaggerated the contact in hopes of drawing a whistle that never came, but it was still a huge dunk.
Brooklyn's bench went wild, and the Nets won, 107-92.

With former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick still unsigned, Cleveland Browns offensive tackle Joe Thomas offered his opinion on Twitter:
My thoughts re: @Kaepernick7? Teams don't currently view him as a starting QB, and NFL teams accept ZERO distractions from their backup QBs.
The six-time All-Pro seemed particularly focused on the nebulous term "distraction," which is one of the knocks against Kaepernick:
Great point! It'll be interesting to see if the NFL has changed at all from that standpoint, or if they are more averse to distractions now s://t.co/QaFNg9XWZY
It's come to my attention that many ppl have different ideas of what a "distraction" is in regards to an NFL plyr. I need a poll for this s://t.co/MgfAEFtAGj
Was @Kaepernick7 a distraction for the 49ers last year?
I think mine would be; anytime a player does something that forces his teammates to answer questions from media unrelated to football.
Last comment on this topic, I think "distractions" are one of the more highly overrated intangible things in football. Like "camaraderie".
Good teams don't LET themselves be distracted.
The distraction Thomas alluded to, of course, involves Kap's decision to kneel during the national anthem last year, and the firestorm that surrounded the protest. ESPN's Adam Schefter reported in early March that Kaepernick will stand next season.
While it might be true that the team that signs Kaepernick will invite an onslaught of media coverage and backlash from some fans or even personnel, the 29-year-old nearly won a Super Bowl in 2013.
He might be a better option than Cody Kessler or Brock Osweiler, at least in 2017.


 


Air Max 1 “Red”—Tinker Hatfield’s Air Max 1 changed everything. Technology became smarter and looked better. The original Air Max 1 didn’t simply fall into place, it helped send Nike into the MTV generation with savvy, timeless design elements. —Giancarlo King


Air Max 95 Stash—The Air Max 95 Stash marked the first time speckled paint was used on any 95 model. Released in 2006, this helped reinvigorate the line. A gradient effect covering the upper turned the Air Max 95 Stash into a must-own pair. —Giancarlo King


Air Max Safari—The Nike Air Safari debuted in 1987 and was one of the first luxury sneakers in a market obsessed with performance. Without the safari, there might not be a Yeezy boost. It moved the conversation toward that of the casual consumer. —Ishaan Mishra


Air Max 97 “Silver”—Ten years after the Air Max 1, Nike gave us the Air Max 97 “Silver.” This shoe ushered the AM line into the next decade. Developed to look like a high-speed train, the “Silver” 97 marks a zenith period for Nike’s creativity. —Giancarlo King


Air Max 1 “Liquid Gold”—Considering how important it is, the Air Max 1 should be enshrined forever. The “Liquid Gold” version was a step in the right direction, stylizing the best of Tinker’s initial design without compromising on quality. —Giancarlo King



Nike Air Max 98 Supreme—Timeless silhouette meets a risky snakeskin. The "hypebeasts" needed this and so did the casual "sneakerheads." Supreme delivered on a one of a kind pair. Now we wait on the next one. —Dimetri Francis



Air Max 90 “Infrared”—Tinker Hatfield’s third design, the Air Max 90 “Infrared,” remains classic. The “Infrared” colorway will always remind us of the Air Max 90. No sneaker since has looked better with those tones splashed across their canvas. —Giancarlo King


Air Max 1 "Atmos"—In 2016, Nike asked the world which Air Max model should come back to life. Sneaker fans made their choice clear, yelling for the “Atmos” Air Max 1. The people spoke and we listened. The “Atmos” 1 is now a legacy shoe. —Giancarlo King



Air Max Moon Landing—This sneaker harkens to a time of innovation. Whether it is the Lunarlon, the reflective 3M, the flag back panels or Tinker's beloved air bubble, every segment of this shoe is about changing the game and remembering those who did. —Ishaan Mishra



Nike Vapormax—The latest Air Max tech breakthrough by Nike has led to one of the more polarizing sneakers in recent memory. But the sheer sense of awe from this shoe has outweighed everything, making the Vapormax instantly impactful. —Maurice Peebles
 
All photographs courtesy of Eric Helgas. And a big shoutout/thank you to Flight Club for providing all of the sneakers. You can follow Flight Club on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram or simply visit their store located at 812 Broadway in New York.
Our incident briefing is under way. Getting knowledge and fed before we head out to (hopefully) high five Jayhawk fans. #CelebrateSafely s://t.co/MQzG40YJgG
It's easy to think about a team's fanbase following a devastating loss.
But what about those who police said fans?
After the top-seeded Kansas Jayhawks lost to the third-seeded Oregon Ducks, 74-60, in the Elite Eight on Saturday night in Kansas City, Missouri, the Lawrence, Kansas, police department started cracking jokes:
Well, at least we have a lot of experience dealing with fans after an #Elite8 loss. Get home safely Jayhawk fans. #DriveSober
Things seemed quiet after a second straight regional final loss for the Jayhawks:
Only 1 disturbance reported so far. Pretty somber mood downtown. No streakers. #GrieveSafely #DriveSober
Officers arrived on a disturbance downtown before it could escalate. Guys, we're all sad but the cops downtown didn't disappear. Stay classy
Still no issues to report downtown. kstate, mizzou and wich st fans @'ing us about "choking" in the elite 8. Your trolling is subpar.
Then, it got weird:
An intoxicated guy tried to pull a tree out of the ground. His friend carried him off before he could succeed. It's not the trees fault man
Earlier in the day, the department prepared for what it hoped would be a celebration (pictured above).
It also warned against streaking:
100% chance I'm nude on Mass St if KU wins tonight
100% chance that's a bad decision and it won't end well. s://t.co/iRAPjLGmUi

San Diego have launched a vote to name their new MLS team.

Footy McFooty Face is currently leading the way 👏 s://t.co/B6eACOG97V
Few names will strike fear in MLS opponents quite like "Footy McFooty Face."
While San Diego vies for a professional soccer team, the SoccerCity SD expansion group opened the polls for a potential team name. The leader, by a clear margin, is Footy McFooty Face.
As noted by Deadspin's Billy Haisley, SoccerCity SD began with 1,000 submissions and whittled them down to 20. The final 10 names will be submitted to MLS.
Now, MLS has the final say, so it's unlikely Footy McFooty Face will stand. But it's clear what the people want. After all, it's worked in the past. 
[Twitter, Facebook]
Via @EliasSports, tonight's @Suns starting lineup (average age of 21 years, 14 days) is the youngest starting five in NBA history #WeArePHX s://t.co/YKH1KsUt8g
No starting five in NBA history has spent less time on this earth than the Phoenix Suns' unit Thursday night.
As highlighted by Elias Sports (h/t NBA on ESPN), the Suns lineup was younger than all but one from teams playing in the NCAA tournament's Sweet 16 that same day:
The Suns' starting 5 was the youngest in NBA history tonight — younger than all but ONE of the Sweet 16 teams playing.
(via @EliasSports) s://t.co/NWp7JUEyZu
That's borderline infantile.
Devin Booker, Marquese Chriss, Tyler Ulis, Alex Len and Derrick Jones certainly provide hope for the future, but they fell to the 15-56 Brooklyn Nets on Thursday, 126-98.

NEW Tot Dog at @Dbacks: FOOT-LONG Dog, Chili, Cheese Sauce, Sour Cream + TATER TOTS s://t.co/OvIGPUcJ7E
The Arizona Diamondbacks have changed the game.
According to ABC15's Kari Van Horn, they're now selling hot dogs with tater tots on them.
On Thursday, the New York Mets made it clear they want to be the top food destination in baseball, per Michael McCarthy of Sporting News. The Diamondbacks only need to ask one question in response:
Does Citi Field serve franks decorated with a dozen tots?

Honoring #TheBigStatue on the court tonight with these @stancehoops socks #LakeShow s://t.co/DEKvk9aC8G
Shaquille O'Neal's Staples Center statue will be unveiled when the Los Angeles Lakers host the Minnesota Timberwolves at 10:30 p.m. ET Friday night.
On the court, the Big Aristotle's former team will rock Shaq-themed Stance socks. O'Neal hammers home a two-handed dunk in the image on the socks, which mirrors his statue:
Thank You Buss Family! #speechless s://t.co/vkcKtKB7i6
The nine-foot, 1,200-pound bronze statue will be suspended 10 feet off the ground. Bleacher Report's Dave Schilling talked to Omri Amrany, who came up with the unique design idea, ahead of the ceremony.

Never seen a team do this before. Warriors are having Stop "Ticket" Fraud Night on Sunday s://t.co/PI2sqTh16U
The Golden State Warriors are cracking down on ticket scams.
According to a press release, the Dubs are going to host a "Stop Fraud Night" at Oracle Arena when the Memphis Grizzlies come to town Sunday. ESPN's Darren Rovell passed along the image of a shirt that will be given to attending fans.
The release detailed how widespread rip-off tickets have become. Before the Warriors' 99-86 loss to the Boston Celtics on March 8, 58 fans were denied access since they unknowingly bought counterfeit tickets. Those fans will be in attendance Sunday.
This is dope @warriors s://t.co/4L4M2b9IvM
Over 1,000 fans in total have been turned away from Oracle this season.
The Warriors have become one of the hottest tickets in sports, so it's understandable this has become a growing problem. While there's not a ton Golden State can do—the team has no control over third-party sites—it deserves props for spreading awareness.

New York Mets shortstop Asdrubal Cabrera was ejected from Thursday's 1-0 spring training loss to the Washington Nationals.
He took his sweet time leaving the field.
The 31-year-old was displeased about not being granted a timeout early in his fourth-inning plate appearance. After singling to right-center field, he let umpire Angel Hernandez hear about it on his way to first base.
Hernandez tossed Cabrera, who strolled toward the outfield gate in outrageously slow fashion.
Power move.
[MLB]

When wondering how I might die one day, the image typically involves my body being swallowed up by a mountain of empty pizza boxes or fast-food wrappers. Now, I'm forced to consider the notion of a 1,500-pound Shaquille O'Neal falling on my head.
On Friday, the Los Angeles Lakers and AEG will officially christen a statue commemorating the legacy of the Hall of Fame center in a ceremony in front of the Staples Center. The bronze recreation of O'Neal, designed by Omri Amrany and Julie Rotblatt-Amrany, joins statues of Magic Johnson, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Jerry West, Oscar de la Hoya and Lakers announcer Chick Hearn in the arena courtyard across from the L.A. Live entertainment complex.
What sets the Shaq statue apart from the rest is its placement. Technically, it's not even in said courtyard. It's high above it, affixed to a ceiling and next to a window, with the Big Aristotle hanging post-dunk and wearing a grimace that Twitter has likened to the face of WWE Hall of Famer "Stone Cold" Steve Austin.
So you can understand my trepidation about walking underneath a massive bronze Shaquille O'Neal in earthquake-prone Los Angeles.
Thank You Buss Family! #speechless s://t.co/vkcKtKB7i6
Omri Amrany came up with the idea for suspending a statue above arenagoers 25 years ago, and Shaq ended up being the perfect person to make his vision come to life.
"When I talked to the Lakers management, the discussion was ... people want to touch Shaquille," Amrany told Bleacher Report over the phone from his home in Illinois. "I said, 'Yes, people want to touch Shaquille—but wouldn't it be stronger to have the quest to touch instead of (actually) touching?'"
Amrany also designed all the other statues at Staples, plus the Wilt Chamberlain piece in Philadelphia, and, most famously, the iconic Michael Jordan statue in front of the United Center. His aim in all of these projects was to capture the essence of the player and to preserve it for all time.
"Kareem is known for the hook shot, Jerry [West] is known for the moves and Magic was known for the coordination and capability. Michael Jordan was known for the spread eagle," he said. "When we did Wilt Chamberlain in Philadelphia, we emphasized the dunking. Everybody had their niche. Shaquille is very well known for the slam and hanging by the rim. How do you do it without touching the ground? That was the question from the beginning."

The bronze Shaq is nine feet tall, and according to Amrany, 1,500 pounds, though the official Lakers press release lists it as 1,200. But what's 300 pounds? To me, that says that if the bronze Diesel fell on me, I might die a little slower.
It will sit 10 feet off the ground, which means unless you are as tall as Shaq, or at least have something resembling an NBA vertical leap, you'll never be able to touch it. This is a drastic departure from the Chick Hearn piece—a recreation of the play-by-play man at the announcer's table calling a game. There's even a second seat for you to sit down and pose for photos.
"Julie and I worked to create Chick Hearn, knowing that the Lakers would have to routinely maintain the table and the chair. It's like the nose of Lincoln or some pieces of bronze of a sculpture in Europe, because people always touch it for luck. So here, the chair and the table and part of the shoulders are always abused by people—and I would say 'abused' in a positive way—who want to take photographs."
For Amrany, Shaq had to be different. He had to be unattainable.
"I feel [with the Shaq statue] that instead of the touching and hugging, it's the desire," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised if people spent their time jumping, trying to touch it, which is OK, you know? It's part of how people use contemporary art today—the interaction with the public."

But, quite frankly, I'm more concerned with it interacting with my head. I have to ask him, is it safe?
"We worked with three different engineers to engineer this piece that will be safe and sound and strong. Second, we're working with a group of very good California welders from Burbank, who are working with AEG behind the scenes to make sure everything is strong."
I'm not aware of Burbank welders having an international reputation for craftsmanship, but I'm trying to give them the benefit of the doubt.
"I requested a payload of 10,000 pounds strength. That's 10 times more than other pieces," he continued.
That's better. Nothing calms me down like math.
The Shaq statue is Amrany's most ambitious, most nerve-racking piece yet, but he's hard at work on his next project—a 50-foot tall likeness of Johnny Cash to be erected in Folsom, California.
"We did Napoleon Dynamite for 20th Century Fox [in 2014]," he said. "We're working with cities like Folsom. We're working with memorial organizations, tributes for different cases, and, of course, with the sport."

Part of why Amrany is so in demand is the vaunted place statues hold in the cultural psyche. Sure, the dangling Shaq statue is terrifying to me, but for most fans, these works of art inspire awe and respect. It's, as Amrany suggested, an opportunity for average people to reach out and interact with something they deem greater than themselves. Sure, it's also a bit of idol worship, but that's just part of the human condition. We crave heroes, figures of esteem responsible for feats beyond our wildest dreams.
Some people might disagree, but the sports statue is an intrinsic part of a franchise's identity and means something to the average fan who throws down hundreds of dollars to be a part of the action. When the real people are gone, like Chick Hearn, these statues give us the chance to remember what we loved about them.
In a way, my own nervous feelings about Shaq squashing me are how I will choose to remember his playing days. He was a fearsome, unstoppable scoring machine whose size and speed were unmatched. Amrany's job is to sort out how to make a statue as memorable as the subject it's based on.
"I think that what makes something memorable is if in 200 years," he said, "people look back and say it was the right thing to do for its time."
If you're reading this 200 years in the future, shoot us a tweet and let us know.
THAT HURT
s://t.co/4onXQp8Tsa
Big man Pero Antic played two seasons with the Atlanta Hawks before heading to Fenerbahce of the Turkish Basketball Super League in 2015.
On Thursday, Antic punched teammate Nikola Kalinic—by accident.
Following a block in the fourth quarter of a tight game, the 34-year-old swung his fist in blind celebration. Unfortunately for Kalinic, Antic's punch clocked him in the face.
Clearly not thrilled initially, Kalinic was able to laugh it off. Adding to the pain, though, was an 80-77 loss to Anadolu Efes.

BREAKING: Hungarian player invents new free throw rule on the fly, seems pleased with results 🤔 s://t.co/cSqt6hgb41
Andrija Bojic is not your conventional free-throw shooter.
During a game in the Hungary A Division league earlier this week, the Serbian forward, playing for Jaszbereny, went through his normal routine at the charity stripe.
Then he took one dribble and dunked.
The violation was obvious, but Bojic's reasoning was not. The slam appears to have happened late in a March 19 blowout loss in which the 23-year-old struggled from the line, shooting 4-of-13.
He finished with 28 points in an 88-73 loss to KTE-Duna Aszfalt, and perhaps the dunk was his way of blowing off steam.

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
High schooler Robert Bobroczky stands 7'7" and has some nice touch on his shot. Watch the video above to learn more about him.

Our inaugural B/R Kicks Madness tournament has already seen the first round come and go and with it 32 pairs of kicks that couldn't best their competition. Now it's time to cut the field in half again. It's Sweet 16 time, folks. See below for the results and be sure to let us know how you feel via Twitter, Instagram and/or Facebook.
 

THREE STRIPES REGION
The Three-Stripe Region’s Sweet 16 was all about upsets.
First up on the docket was the No. 8-seeded Adidas Yeezy Boost 350 "Pirate Black" prevailing against the No. 1-seeded Adidas Yeezy 750 Boost "Chocolate." This Yeezy on Yeezy crime was a match-up everybody debated over. When the final buzzer rang, the "Pirate Black" won based on the fact it has become synonymous with West’s mainstream sneaker appeal.
Continuing its rise toward the Final Four, Pharrell’s NMD x Human Race—slotted into the No. 12 position—was able to advance past the super-popular Adidas NMD "OG." This wasn’t easy, but based on exclusivity, a series of dynamic colorways and Pharrell’s towering influence, the ingredients for an upset were all there.
On the same grounds, No. 10 seed NMD x Bape took down the No. 2-seeded Yeezy Boost 350 V2 "Beluga." We went from complete Yeezy madness to having one pair left vying for a championship.
The only contest that didn’t produce a shocking result was the Ultra Boost "Triple Black" cruising past the Yeezy Boost 350 V2 "Zebra." Considering the entire Ultra Boost lineup produces sell-outs—despite being delivered in large quantities—what the "Triple Black" did was more impressive than what the hyper-limited "Zebra" Yeezy release did in early 2017.


SWOOSH REGION
Fans were left running out of the building when the No. 8 Nike Special Field Air Force One beat down the No. 1-seeded Air Mag. When you start a conversation about why the result makes sense.
Let’s be clear: The Nike SF-1 helped redefine the Air Force One product. For years it remained stagnant—minus John Geiger’s "Misplaced Checks" series. With the SF-1, the shoe is now back to shifting the culture. The Air Mag’s limited release schedule—through raffle entries—doesn’t compare to what the SF-1 has done for Nike this year.
Other than that dramatic downing of a No. 1 seed, the rest of the bracket fell into place. The Nike x Acronym Air Presto, Kobe 11 "Fade to Black" and HyperAdapt 1.0 all went about their business and advanced.
 

JUMPMAN REGION
The closer we edge toward the Jumpman Region’s Elite 8, the more we begin to see classics take control. There wasn’t a genuine surprise in the Sweet 16. Based on seeding alone, you could say the "Space Jam" XI beating out the "Black Toe" I qualifies. But who really thought the "Space Jam" XI was going down this early?
As expected, the Air Jordan I "Bred" and "OVO" XII managed to keep venturing forward. Both sneakers—seeded No. 1 and 2, respectively—are in the running to win the whole thing.
From upset city to legit contender, the Air Jordan III "True Blue" continued to soar as the No. 11 seed. The shoe conquered its predecessor, the Air Jordan IV "Cement," in what turned out to be a thrilling duel.
 

MEGA MIX REGION
The Mega Mix Region is shaping up to be the most exciting portion of the bracket. Conflicting matchups pitting various companies against each other has made for serious debates and full email inboxes.
In the Sweet 16, two prominent Reebok Questions faced off. The winner turned out to be the No. 5-seeded Reebok Question "OG"—the defining sneaker of Allen Iverson’s professional career.
There weren’t too many upsets to be had this time around. In fact, all of the higher seeds moved on. What we now have is two Reeboks and two Asics left. Which company will emerge from the highly decorated Mega Mix Region? You'll just have to follow along and see.
 
Stay tuned for the Elite 8!
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Giannis Antetokounmpo does not run.
He glides.
Early in the second quarter against the Portland Trail Blazers on Tuesday night, the Milwaukee Bucks star stole the ball, surged ahead and smoothly converted a one-handed dunk.
The Greek Freak made cutting Portland's first-half lead to 21-20 look easy.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
The Brooklyn Nets won (for a change) Tuesday night, and they did so in walk-off fashion.
With 2.4 seconds remaining and the Nets deadlocked at 96 against the Detroit Pistons, Brook Lopez peeled toward the sideline and caught an inbounds pass from Randy Foye. The big fella took one dribble, faded back and offered a one-handed floater as he neared the baseline at the horn.
Lopez nailed it and proceeded to strut along the sideline. He finished with a game-high 29 points on 13-of-24 shooting to go along with seven boards.
The Nets are still a league-worst 14-56 with the victory. Detroit slid into ninth place in the Eastern Conference at 34-37.
Sidney Crosby ladies and gents. s://t.co/JkvwvSo3TG
Pittsburgh Penguins star forward Sidney Crosby had an eventful first period Tuesday night.
First, he cup-checked Buffalo Sabres center Ryan O'Reilly, who either failed the inspection or was trying to draw a call. Either way, he crumbled to the ice.
Later, Crosby scored an absolutely dazzling one-handed goal:
Yoooooooo Sidney Crosby s://t.co/kS8uUvIW21
This goal doesn’t even make sense s://t.co/YuT6Jbuqm3
Pittsburgh led 1-0 after a period.


Drake's sports fandom is as prolific as his catalog, but luckily for him, it's a two-way lovefest as athletes of all stripes have made him ubiquitous from the practice field to the locker room to the after-party. With the release of his latest album (OK, "playlist") More Life last Saturday (March 18), the Toronto MC/singer/monolith has already inspired record-breaking streaming numbers and praise from athletes across the board.
Cincinnati Bengals running back Giovani Bernard is one of the album's early fans, and he told B/R why he'll be bumping More Life into next season.

 
"I'm a Drake fan, definitely. I mean that's what's being played in the locker rooms just about every day. He's on top of his game, and so his music's everywhere: the locker rooms, but also in people's cars, in the club—wherever you go, you hear his voice.
"I was actually just playing it on my Beats Pill in the locker room, here in Cincinnati. Drake's already here! In general, I'm very low-key. I don't like hardcore rap—the, 'Oh I'm about to kill you,' kind of thing? I don't need any of that. It’s more about just sitting back in my car, chilling, listening. Chance the Rapper’s Coloring Book was amazing. I'm a big Frank Ocean guy—[Blonde] was pretty sweet. Also old-school music—my Marvin Gaye, my Sade...I know that's really random, but it kind of tells you my favorite type of music. I’m a super vibe-y kind of guy.

"So for that, 'Do Not Disturb' is a good one, and the one with PartyNextDoor ['Since Way Back']. I'm a big PartyNextDoor fan. He's another guy that's really incorporated that island feel. 'Passionfruit' is great; I like the vibe. Granted, before a game I'm not going to listen to it—that’s when I need my heavy dosage rap. But right now, those kinds of songs are what I lean toward. I'm not playing a football game, so I don't need to get super-hyped up.
"The biggest thing was that he actually committed and did [the dancehall thing]. We haven't really heard much of that in the rap game recently, or at least in the American rap game. He adds this island feel. It's one thing that Drake does really well: He's able to cater to what everybody likes. I think that's why him and his voice are so popular throughout the world, not just in America. That's like in life in general: The more you can do, the better.
"Being Haitian [in the U.S.], listening to Caribbean music is more about the vibe—less about "Oh, I can relate to that lyric" and more about the energy that that music brings and the camaraderie that comes from it. It brings everybody together. That's the main thing about Caribbean music: It's just a big ol' party. Other cultures have those kinds of musics, but I think the Caribbean sound is particularly prominent in that atmosphere.

"To me, the patois is just his way of trying to talk to everybody. It shows his diversity. Whether he does it well or not, I think it's just the fact that he's actually trying it. You don't hear many other rappers trying to do that. He's going outside of the box, and it's working for him thus far. Also, [Rihanna] probably told him a little something about Caribbean music when they had their thing. I'm sure she had some influence [laughs]. That whole group with him, Rihanna and Party, they actually successfully bring that island feel to rap.
"You're not gonna typically hear [dancehall] in the Bengals locker room, but with this album, three or four of those songs have that Caribbean feel to them. Hopefully it will help [dancehall] creep into the locker room. We'll see."
A photo posted by Michael Phelps (@m_phelps00)
Someone at Starbucks loves Michael Phelps.
On Monday, the most decorated Olympian in history grabbed some coffee with his wife and a friend. Phelps' cup had "The GOAT" (greatest of all time) written on it, which is funny.
But his wife's cup said "Wife of GOAT," and his friend's said "Friend of GOAT." That's hilarious.
Phelps seemed to enjoy the gesture.
[Instagram]
🐍🐊 🐯 🐻  Lions and Tigers and Russ for MVP Oh My!! #MVP #MVP #MVP #hist0ry #thepeopleschamp s://t.co/4aQUsZ62hn
Oklahoma City Thunder big men Steven Adams and Enes Kanter have produced another hilarious video in their campaign for Russell Westbrook to win MVP.
This time, they were joined by teammate Andre Roberson.
Roberson said he'd rather wrestle a snake and an alligator than guard Westbrook. While he was clearly joking, at least one fan pointed out a potential subtle shot at Kevin Durant:
@Enes_Kanter obviously Andre chose to fight a snake, he already did the last time s://t.co/DcTLDw8LUo
Westbrook's averaging a triple-double is probably his best argument, but hearing from Adams and Kanter can't hurt Russ' case.
Here's their first video:
Our leader, our hero, King of the Prairie, Russ!! #MVP #MVP #MVP s://t.co/46Fbe6ZlG8

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Somebody had to ask these questions.
Luckily, Bleacher Report got Jaden Smith.
The actor, rapper and noted thinker sat down and reflected on the NCAA tournament, pondering a connection between Kentucky's win and Drake's More Life, LaVar Ball, the term "March Madness" and more.
Prepare to get deep.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Mike Purvis, a 3'8" high school senior, is a vital part of the Notre Dame High School basketball team. On senior night, Mike was given an opportunity to join his team on the court.
Watch the video above.
During Sunday's 4-0 victory over the Florida Panthers, Pittsburgh Penguins Patric Hornqvist and Phil Kessel converted a rare alley-oop goal.
In the first period, Kessel scooped the puck over the net and Hornqvist batted it in out of midair.
Panthers goalie James Reimer had no chance. He must've felt like Brandon Knight:
Probably the most talked about poster dunk in recent times, from DeAndre Jordan. Brandon Knight will never be forgotten. 😢 s://t.co/HIPvc49eol
This might be the goal of the year.
[YouTube, Twitter]

The South Carolina Gamecocks got a little cocky after pulling off the upset against the No. 2 Duke Blue Devils on Sunday.
Following the 88-81 shocker, the university's Twitter account started throwing haymakers:
~more math~
🐔 &gt; 🔵😈 
#marchmadness #gamecocks @GamecockMBB
Scale from 1-10, how shook is #Duke right now? #marchmadness
Oops. 🙃 #Gamecocks #MarchMadness s://t.co/CExekUJ1Ii
Here's the knockout shot (go ahead, click it):
Very important website: 👉 s://t.co/0PLrXOyGsn
Y'all win twitter today @UofSC s://t.co/Rqsaaij7np
To the victor go the spoils—or, in this case, the Twitter shots.

Golf is hard. s://t.co/UjHKrgiZZ6
Nature was not kind to Emiliano Grillo on the sixth hole of the third round in this weekend's Arnold Palmer Invitational.
Grillo quadruple-bogeyed the hole after splashing two balls. One of them ricocheted off the rocks, flew into the air and landed in the water.
Clearly fed up, Grillo decided to give his club a dip too.
!!! s://t.co/vJV8Isakxv
The 24-year-old Argentine finished tied for seventh place with a seven-under.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
After winning the NCAA title at 133, Cory Clark's celebration continued with a THROW of Iowa coach Terry Brands! #NCAAWrestling s://t.co/cWxYdl22eY
"Throw me."
That's what Iowa wrestling coach Terry Brands told Cory Clark after the latter beat South Dakota State's Seth Gross 4-3 for the 133-pound national championship on Saturday.
Clark obliged.
"I freaked out," Clark told reporters. "I didn't know what to do; [I was] kind of out of it out there. [Brands] said, 'Throw me.' I go, 'No.' He goes, 'Throw me.' I said, 'All right.' I grabbed him and threw him. So that's what happened.
"I don't know if he wants you—he probably wants it to seem like I tossed him for some reason. I didn't want to throw him; he wanted [to be] thrown. He was fired up."
Upon video review, Brands definitely called for the takedown:
Why not?! #ncaawrestling s://t.co/6CPrqey7G2
Here's Clark joking about the peculiar celebration:
Cory Clark describes his "celebration" with Terry... #NCAAWrestling s://t.co/6DhDQu8sCE
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Gracie got engaged to her favorite player @aduclair10 today 😍 and we couldn't be happier for them! 😂 @ArizonaCoyotes s://t.co/V7gTsCjIS8
Arizona Coyotes forward Anthony Duclair is a good sport.
While meeting a family of fans after Thursday's practice, the 21-year-old read a note from four-year-old Gracie Hernandez, who practices her writing skills by penning messages to her favorite team.
Duclair, who was recently recalled from the AHL, was clearly amused by the note. According to Cristina Ledra of NHL.com, it read:
"Dear Duke, I'm Gracie, and I'm four. I love you! Are you happy to be back? Will you marry me?"
Duclair accepted her offer and hugged the young fan, as her family captured the sweet moment on video.
Got engaged today 🙈💍 s://t.co/02Gb6WLQ0H
Aww.
[Twitter, h/t NHL.com]

LeBron James and Drake go way back.
They've done concerts together—at least, Drake brought him on stage. They've exchanged words on the court—well, when LBJ was on the court. After Saturday night's release of Drizzy's More Life, it seems James and Drizzy are as tight as ever.
Remember this tweet from January?
Sometimes I gotta just make sure that i didn't lose you. Did I?!?! Did I?!?! Did I Lose You
We all thought it was a sub-shot at Charles Barkley. The King posted it in the middle of the night, and later that day, ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin passed along James' scathing rebuke of the TNT analyst.
It turns out those were just lyrics from Drake's "Lose You," the 16th track on More Life.
You did lose us for a minute there, King. Well played.
[Twitter, h/t Complex]
Whoever sent me this POTATO!!!! Much appreciated.... s://t.co/fVaqRvvgTn
Nothing goes together quite like basketball and potatoes.
This week, Dallas Mavericks veteran Dirk Nowitzki tweeted about a personalized potato he received in the mail. The 38-year-old loved it, though he didn't seem entirely clear on where it came from.
Golden State Warriors superstar Kevin Durant was next. He felt inspired:
Treatment and inspirational potatoes. Thanks, whoever you are. s://t.co/10IzZPmrFo
Miami Heat big man Hassan Whiteside got a spud that also featured his South Beach pal DJ Khaled:
Shoutout !!!!  To whoever sent me this Potato and tell my brother @djkhaled Another ☝🏾 s://t.co/Hl8dowjKQ9
Charlotte Hornets forward Frank Kaminsky got a picture of himself on his tater:
My actual reaction when this potato showed up #FrankThePotato s://t.co/2Ihxc4sk72
As discovered by Charles Curtis of For The Win, there's no mysterious potato bandit behind these gifts; it was a company, Potato Parcel, which got a deal with Kevin O'Leary on Shark Tank.
The potato fairy strikes again. #potato s://t.co/p82I4PAof8
Owner Riad Bekhit told Curtis that almost every player in each starting five got a potato, so about 150 were sent out. Obviously, this was a marketing campaign—and a successful one at that.
"It's just really cool," Bekhit said. "To see it in the public eye with these players, that's the beauty of the digital age."
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
From a 3'8" baller to a fifth grader who started on varsity, these basketball players are definitely worth watching.
Check out the video above for more!

Pittsburgh Steelers star Le'Veon Bell has been banned from attending a Wisconsin high school's prom with a student, according to Annysa Johnson of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
The do-it-all running back agreed to attend the dance with 17-year-old Steelers fan Ava Tarantino after a Twitter bet:
welllll, a deal is a deal @avatarantino26 ......see youu at your prom 😊
@L_Bell26 500 rts and you'll go to prom w me
600 &amp; it's a deal s://t.co/nUo76cmH8e
According to Johnson, though, the Waukesha School District is shutting this down.
Bell is "barred from the dance itself, according to district policy, because he is too old and was once busted for possession of marijuana and driving under the influence."
"You can Google Mr. Bell," spokeswoman Terry Schuster told Johnson, likely alluding to his history of suspensions.
Undeterred, the 25-year-old plans on bringing his mother and girlfriend to help with Tarantino's makeup. Bell is also allowed to take part in all pre-prom festivities, such as photo sessions.
[h/t ProFootballTalk]

This is vintage Derek Carr.
Earlier this week, the Oakland Raiders quarterback noticed someone who had ran out of gas on the side of a road in Dublin, California. The man, a music producer named Ron Reeser, hopped in with Carr, who drove to the nearest station.
"He says 'I play football' and is heavily into God and wants to become a pastor some day when he retires," Reeser told All 22 (h/t Anthony Galaviz of the Fresno Bee).
Reeser asked a few more questions while filling up his can:
He said he was a quarterback. I thought he was a college quarterback. I asked him what string he was. He said 'first string.'
I asked him his favorite team. He said, 'I may be biased, but the Raiders because I play for them.' I looked at him and said, 'Wait.' And I asked him his name. He said, 'Derek Carr.'"
The two prayed together before going their separate ways. Reeser told All 22 that Carr helped "restore my faith in people."
They exchanged messages via Twitter later on:
thank u for the help &amp; prayer today @derekcarrqb you've restored my faith in humanity &amp; appreciate u taking the time #godbless #payitforward
God bless you too! Anytime!!!! But hopefully not on the side of the road again haha s://t.co/A3ntQoUHw2

Rule #1: don't touch the gators s://t.co/jFNOezJcyZ
Cody Gribble has clearly never seen Happy Gilmore.
At the Arnold Palmer Invitational on Thursday, the 26-year-old golfer noticed an alligator perched near the lake. Gribble went full Steve Irwin and pushed the beast back into the water before strolling along the course.
According to the Associated Press, this is common for the Dallas native. Apparently, he does it all the time.
"They're not going to catch you a couple of steps down," Gribble told the AP. "They're going to get you really quick early, but if I'm not in its way—I'm right behind him—it's not going to happen."
Gribble also said he thought this particular gator "needed some exercise."
Despite delivering the highlight of the day, Gribble shot five over par.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Nothing says St. Patrick's Day quite like a jump shot.
To celebrate the March 17 holiday, Bleacher Report transformed Boston Celtics superstar Isaiah Thomas' smooth jumper into a coin finding a pot of gold.
It's also set to an Irish music version of Future's recent hit "Mask Off."

David Sanders unearthed the DVD and popped it into the player on Tuesday evening. Earlier that day, he received a surprise visit from a Seattle Times reporter asking about a former teammate. His 16-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son sat down with him, and they watched as his Washington State Cougars took on Bobby Knight's Indiana Hoosiers in Assembly Hall on Dec. 12, 1987.
Sanders, who averaged 12.9 points a game that season, pointed to a player pulling down a rebound and asked his children a question.
"Do you think that guy could have beaten Michael Jordan one-on-one?" 
The player, of course, was LaVar Ball, who recently told USA Today's Josh Peters that in his heyday, he could have killed Jordan in one-on-one. Although he's better known now as the boisterous father of some of the best young players in America—Lonzo is a starting guard for UCLA and a projected top-five pick in this June's NBA draft; LiAngelo is a 3-star 2017 UCLA commit; LaMelo is a 5-star 2019 UCLA commit—he was just a backup at Washington State.

Ball's only season was Kelvin Sampson's first as the Cougars' head coach; he served as an assistant for the two seasons prior. That year, Sampson remembers scrambling to put together a roster that could compete in a tough Pac-10 Conference.
"When we took over the program, we were devoid of bigs," Sampson said. "Washington State was a tough recruiting spot. But my plan was to get as many tough, hard-nosed overachievers as we could. We saw LaVar, and I just said he's the kind of kid we can start with."
Sampson was just 32 years old at the time, and he felt his proximity in age to his players gave him a special bond with them. He believes Ball acted around him the way he did around his teammates—and Ball was a character, even then.
"He was a personality, but in a good way," Sampson said. "Those were tough days for Washington State, but LaVar was someone that was always fun to be around. Everyone on the team enjoyed him."
Sanders, the team's second-leading scorer, suggests Ball was a necessary balance for an otherwise serious squad.
"There were a lot of melancholy existentialists on the team," Sanders said. "LaVar was more of a free spirit, as you can probably imagine now. His personality outshined and overwhelmed his basketball ability, but it was life-giving in the locker room."

He also provided the lowly team with some outsized confidence. Before that game against powerhouse Indiana, Sanders remembers Ball telling his teammates that the Hoosiers weren't ready for them. The Cougars kept the game surprisingly close before eventually losing by seven.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, given that he's a personal trainer now, Ball was in terrific shape in Pullman. Sanders jokes that Ball's body fat was 2 percent, and Todd Anderson, the fourth-leading scorer on that '88 squad, said Ball was "built like a house." At the time, though, Sampson ran a plodding and methodical offense that wasn't a great fit for Ball's skills. Ball abruptly left the team after his lone season.
"He was kind of one-and-done," Anderson said. "But not in the good way."
When Ball transferred to Division II Cal State-Los Angeles, he led the Golden Eagles in scoring (15.8 points per game) and rebounding (8.9 rebounds) and was selected as first-team All-CCAA. His head coach at Cal State, Henry Dyer, even compared him and a fellow frontcourt player, Bruce Turner, to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson, respectively.
"I always thought he could play," Sampson said. "Sometimes players just take a little while to develop. Obviously, though, if I'd known he would have had those three boys, I would have started him right away and played him 40 minutes."

But what about Ball's claim that he could have taken down the greatest player ever?
"He said what?" Sampson said, hearing the quote for the first time. "I have no reaction to that. That's not worth reacting to."
"Him beating Michael Jordan?" Anderson said. "I'd like to see that. I really don't think that would have been the case. I think he's been watching the Kardashians a little bit too much."
"It's laughable," said Brian Quinnett, Washington State's leading scorer from the 1987-88 season, to TMZ on Tuesday. "The stats speak for themselves."
When Sanders asked his daughter that question, she replied, "Do you think he really means it?"
"I just told her and my son, I'm not sure," Sanders said. "But I can't wait to watch UCLA in the NCAA tournament now."

Welcome to the first-ever B/R Kicks Madness. We rounded up our Kicks staff, politicked through the entire selection process and completed a bracket of 64 sneakers from the 2016-17 release calendar.
We've broken down each region by brand, pitting the best kicks against one another using a traditional NCAA seeding approach.
There's the Three Stripes Region, featuring NMDs and Kanye West's Yeezy collection. The widely respected Swoosh Region is filled with technological breakthroughs and has a few signature sneakers from Cleveland Cavaliers superstars. The Jumpman Region includes the hyper-popular Air Jordan Retros. Lastly, there's the Mega Mix Region. This is where the best of the rest come to play—everything from Asics to Vans and Under Armour.
With each passing round, we will show you which kicks advance and which are left collecting dust on the shelf, until the first B/R Kicks Madness champion is finally crowned.
All of the shoes and winners were chosen by the B/R Kicks staff. Unhappy with our choices? Feel free to debate our picks and make your voice heard on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.
Welcome to B/R Kicks Madness 2017!
 
THREE STRIPES REGION

 
SWOOSH REGION

 
JUMPMAN REGION

 
MEGA MIX REGION

The no-look tag, @javy23baez?? #WBC2017 👀😮⚾ s://t.co/t5WVrrI5xw
Javy Baez knew.
In Tuesday's second round of the World Baseball Classic, the Dominican Republic had a man on with two outs in the eighth inning when Puerto Rico catcher Yadier Molina caught Nelson Cruz stealing. It wasn't close. In fact, the Chicago Cubs second baseman celebrated before he even put down a no-look tag.
Baez pointed to Molina, giving him props for a spot-on throw that ended the inning.
This guy:
Meanwhile, here's Javy Baez no-look tagging someone on a stolen base, because he is the absolute best. s://t.co/p4mZI8AfFX
Puerto Rico held a 3-1 lead entering the top of the ninth inning.

Freshman WR Willie Cherry with a #SCTopTen catch on the first day of spring practice! s://t.co/3AZKnwcuxF
Ohio Bobcats freshman wide receiver Willie Cherry looks ready for the 2017 season.
During his first spring practice Tuesday, the Wichita Falls, Texas, product made a supremely acrobatic one-handed grab on a deep ball.
Cherry, who was also a dual-threat quarterback in high school, will look to add to a Bobcats team that went 8-6 last season and finished first in the Mid-American Conference East division.

technical foul s://t.co/pae9hUb4xb
The Knicks defeated the Indiana Pacers 87-81 in snowy New York City on Tuesday night.
After dropping 22 points on 8-of-17 shooting, All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony rocked an extremely furry winter hat. This thing was bold.
Of course, Twitter reacted:
[looks at Knicks] s://t.co/iKeaTQyIdu
"Melo, tell us about the white walkers beyond the wall" s://t.co/0hH7F5twC7
. @carmeloanthony @Migos s://t.co/7bYToWCort
Melo wearing the bear from the revenant s://t.co/ChRKpn6l4k
Who wore it better? s://t.co/KoUFpCH2hV
PHIL: Waive the no-trade clause, Melo. It's so cold here.

MELO: s://t.co/R4mHS1lSAh
@World_Wide_Wob MELO WAS ON HOTH s://t.co/1k58LfqxAJ
The 27-41 Knicks are certainly not playoff-bound, but at least fans can find warmth in Melo's headwear.
my collage of Melo hats may need an update s://t.co/s6o1347yNi

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Forward John Collins is the Wake Forest Demon Deacons' star.
In the second half of Tuesday's First Four game against the Kansas State Wildcats, he played like it.
With 5:28 to go and his team trailing 72-68, Collins flew over KSU's D.J. Johnson to catch a lob from sophomore guard Bryant Crawford, and the big man slammed the ball home over the helpless defender.
The Wildcats won the game, though, 95-88, and will face the No. 6-seeded Cincinnati Bearcats on Friday.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Much is made about the caliber of teammate LeBron James is.
This is why.
During Tuesday night's 128-96 win over the Detroit Pistons, the King bowled over Kyrie Irving, his point guard and Cleveland Cavaliers sidekick. With Uncle Drew down, James forgot all about pushing the rock.
Actually, he forgot the ball altogether.
James helped his fellow All-Star back to his feet before regaining his dribble and initiating the attack.
Priorities.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Russell Westbrook is chasing history.
Brooklyn Nets fans seemed to respect that.
During Tuesday night's game against the Oklahoma City Thunder, the Barclays Center crowd let out a noticeable cheer when Westbrook grabbed rebound No. 10 to record his 33rd triple-double of the season.
In the first quarter, the crowd chanted "MVP!" while Westbrook was at the foul line:
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Russ finished with an unhuman 25 points, 19 assists and 12 boards in the 122-104 win.
He moved within eight triple-doubles of Oscar Robertson's single-season record of 41 set in 1961-62. Westbrook has 15 games left to catch the Big O.
A photo posted by Wardell Curry (@stephencurry30)
Stephen Curry turned 29 on Tuesday, and his cake featured one of the Golden State Warriors superstar's favorite things to chew on.
A mouth guard.

The mouthpiece wasn't real, of course, but it was realistic. Also included on the Chef's cake was a gold pi symbol—since his birthday falls on March 14 (3/14).
"Blessed to see another year," Curry captioned his Instagram post. "So many things to be thankful for! Keep growing, keep pushing, living life....Appreciate everyone who reached out today. #29 #morelife"
[Instagram]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
The Anthony Davis-DeMarcus Cousins pairing hasn't turned the 26-40 New Orleans Pelicans into a Western Conference playoff team—yet.
But it has made them must-see TV.
During the third quarter of Tuesday night's home contest against the Portland Trail Blazers, Boogie floated a lob for the Brow, who smoothly threw down a spinning slam.
The Pels led 60-42 after the 'oop.
A photo posted by Memphis Grizzlies (@memgrizz)
Memphis Grizzlies veteran forward Vince Carter has amassed a worldwide following over the course of his 19-year NBA career.
After scoring a season-high 24 points in Monday's win over the Milwaukee Bucks, Carter briefly met a fan who traveled to the game from France with his girlfriend.
V.C. shook his hand and gave up his headband.
It must be this type of support that keeps the 40-year-old playing like he's much younger.
40-year-old Vince Carter with the pre-game windmill dunk. 👀✈️

 s://t.co/K06dpbYVoC
[Instagram]
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
With about 16 minutes to go in Tuesday's First Four contest between New Orleans and Mount St. Mary's, Privateers forward Travin Thibodeaux got violent with the rim.
The 6'9" junior hammered a viscous dunk in traffic to cut the Mountaineers' lead to 40-37.
Thibodeaux's team failed to secure a Thursday date with top NCAA tournament seed Villanova, though. The Mount won, 67-66.
A photo posted by Sports Videos (@houseofhighlights)
When told by a heckling Boston Celtics fan on Sunday that Avery Bradley has his number, Chicago Bulls shooting guard Dwyane Wade wasted no time.
"What's my number, three?" Wade responded from the bench. "That's how many rings I got."
It was a clever response by Father Prime, who actually wears No. 3. The 35-year-old also has three NBA titles to his name from his days with the Miami Heat.
Despite the quick wit, Wade scored just eight points on 4-of-11 shooting, and the Bulls fell, 100-80.
[Instagram]
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Mount St. Mary's Mountaineers guard Junior Robinson is as slick as he is short.
Early in the second half against the New Orleans Privateers in Tuesday's First Four NCAA tournament contest, the 5'5" junior converted an impressive floater in the heart of the defense, extending his team's lead to 37-31.
The winner of the battle between No. 16 seeds earns a date with top overall seed and reigning national champion Villanova on Thursday.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
During a particularly heated exchange in the second half of Tuesday's First Four contest against the Mount St. Mary's Mountaineers, New Orleans Privateers forward Travin Thibodeaux appeared to choke teammate Christavious Gill.
Thibodeaux appeared to be yelling about being open and was presumably upset with the guard for not feeding him the rock. Head coach Mark Slessinger reprimanded Thibodeaux, a starter, and placed him on the bench.
This is New Orleans' first NCAA tournament appearance since 1996, so tensions were running high. But with a shot at the No. 1-seeded Villanova Wildcats on the line, composure was crucial.

"Everyone was looking at us—even taking pictures, like we were weird," says Egyptian volleyball player Nada Meawad, 18, who made waves alongside partner Doaa Elghobashy at the 2016 Olympics in Rio as the first athletes to represent the country in beach volleyball.
Meawad doesn't cover her hair, but Elghobashy wears a hijab, and both women compete in long-sleeved shirts and leggings, which stands out in a sport where, for women, the typical uniform is a bikini. (For men, loose-fitting tank tops and shorts are the norm.) A photo of Elghobashy going head-to-head with Germany's (bikini-clad) Kira Walkenhorst even went viral with captions like "This is why we do the Olympics" and "When cultures collide." Meawad kept her head up. In retrospect, she says simply, "We were proud."
Nike sparked similarly breathless coverage recently after it announced the Nike Pro Hijab, the brand's first hijab for athletes and the first ever available on a mass-market scale, set to be released in early 2018. Accompanied by photos of the product's spokespeople—figure skater Zahra Lari, triathlete Manal Rostom and Olympic weightlifter Amna Al Haddad, all from the United Arab Emirates—the announcement garnered coverage everywhere from Us Weekly to the New York Times. "It shows all the world that hijabs don't stop you from playing sports," says Meawad. "Here in Egypt, it's normal."
"My reaction was, 'Oh, that's nothing new, the sports hijab has been around for decades,'" says triathlete Shirin Gerami, who made headlines last fall as the first Iranian woman to compete in the infamous Ironman World Championship. The press release bills the design as "groundbreaking," and cites how Al Haddad "had only one competition-worthy covering, so she had to hand wash it every night."
That story is reflective of the product's lack of international distribution, but it also ignores the fact that athletes have been competing in hijabs at the Olympics since 2004, when Bahrain's Ruqaya Al Ghasara competed in the 100-meter dash (she even earned a deal with Nike). "It's interesting that it's being presented as though Nike invented it, which of course is not true," adds Mara Gubuan, co-founder of the nonprofit Shirzanan, a U.S.-based group that advocates for Muslim women and girls in sports.

To pinpoint the inventor of the athletic hijab is as impossible as trying to identify the first woman ever to play a sport while wearing one, but the first person to design and market a performance-oriented hijab internationally was Dutch designer Cindy van den Bremen. Van den Bremen first designed hijabs for athletes in 1999 as a student at Design Academy Eindhoven after hearing about a Muslim girl who had been kicked out of gym class for wearing one. A court had determined that girls should wear a turtleneck and a swim cap instead, which they deemed to be functionally the same. "At the time, I thought it's not about the covering itself, it's about the way girls are covered," says van den Bremen. "I'm a designer, and I can bridge this gap."
The enthusiastic response to her designs prompted her to start Capsters in 2001. Today, the company sells eight styles internationally via its site, with resellers in 15 different countries.
Since then, companies all over the globe have offered options to Muslim women who want hijabs specifically designed for athletes, though the road has been far from easy.
"We stopped selling sportswear last year, because it was difficult for a small brand like ours to do global business," wrote Fatima Fakier, founder of Botswana-based Friniggi Sportswear, in an email to Bleacher Report. She founded the company in 2009 "because through sports, Muslim women can bring down barriers they face—such as hijab bans—and be represented in the wider community." Even beyond sports, Muslim veiling practices are still controversial. For instance, students in French public schools are not allowed to wear hijabs, an issue reignited by the country's controversial "burkini ban" in 2016.
Though Nike isn't the first, it is without question the biggest company to offer the garment and take on the inevitable political blowback. In a world where the legality of veiling is still debated and the United States is in the midst of a travel ban that many believe singles out Muslims, Nike surely understood its product would receive at least some level of scrutiny.
"Why now? Why did it take them this long? It's 2017—kind of sad that it took them so long to acknowledge us," says marathoner Rahaf Khatib, a 33-year-old from Farmington Hills, Michigan, who became the first hijabi woman to cover a U.S. fitness magazine last fall. "Some of my friends are angry, because they feel like Nike is trying to capitalize on this demographic and the political atmosphere." (It's accountable for 11 percent of global apparel sales in 2015, according to Thomson Reuters.) "They feel like it's really cool right now to have advertising about equality and diversity.
"Part of me thinks they're just trying to cash in."
In fact, van den Bremen says she brought her prototypes to Nike and other international brands after the initial buzz around her designs in the late '90s. "I had designed the hijabs to fit in the collections of leading brands in the first place, so I thought with all the publicity I got when I first started that I should go to them," she says. "But they told me to do it myself—they never gave me a reason, but I assume it was the sensitivity of the topic."

Now that Nike has joined the market, though, Muslim athletes hope the power of their money forces innovations in the world of what's called "modest activewear."
"Nike has the potential to use really high-tech fabrics, which could make a big difference," says Gerami. Meanwhile, Khatib wants more choices, both in hijabs and in conservative, performance-oriented clothing in general. "I mean, I don't wear the same hijab everyday, just like I don't wear the same underwear every day," she says. "I want to walk into a store and find selection of athletic hijabs in front of me, to have the option of trying them on, instead of just buying them online."
Currently, Gerami custom-designs her gear, and Khatib supplements the available athletic hijabs with makeshift alternatives: "I'll run in hoodies or anything that has some coverage...in winter, I run in balaclavas."
More broadly, the announcement could (and already has, to some extent) lend Muslim women exponentially more visibility as athletes. "The thing that Nike brings is huge marketing that the smaller companies already tackling this problem don't have," adds Gerami. Van den Bremen tries to negotiate de facto endorsements, but capital is an issue. "We've been talking to all the athletes that are involved with Nike now," she says, "but the only thing we can offer them is free hijabs—we can't offer them contracts."
Spokesmodels and glossy advertising can help to create a more nuanced understanding of Muslim culture as a whole, something that, even though it's inevitably about money, has rarely felt more timely. "If they sell their hijab properly, we should be seeing Muslim females splashed all over mainstream media," says Gubuan, who cites Nike's recent viral "What will they say about you?" ad as an example of how effectively the brand showed the diversity among Muslim women. (Nike confirmed to Ismaeel Naar of Al Arabiya that the clip was a preliminary part of the Pro Hijab campaign.)
"The hijab makes people visibly Muslim, so it's easy. But it's also wrong," Gubuan adds. "People need to understand that not all Muslim women cover. Nike's recent ad showed that, and it's important." Fencer Ibtihaj Muhammad garnered significant attention at the Rio Olympics as the first woman to compete for the United States in a hijab, while fellow Muslim-American Dalilah Muhammad's gold medal in the 400-meter hurdles (the first ever for a U.S. woman) got next to no press. Dalilah doesn't wear a hijab. "It disturbs me," says Gubuan. "I believe there was too much of a focus on [Ibtihaj's] hijab, and not on her athleticism."
Nike's most concrete impact, though, could come via the most mundane of means: The brand can't offer endorsement deals to athletes who have no place to play, which is still a reality for many Muslim women who compete in sports in which hijabs are banned. FIFA lifted its ban in 2014, and now Gubuan and her colleagues at Shirzanan are campaigning FIBA (the International Basketball Federation) to lift its ban on what it terms "headgear."
"I don't think these were deliberately discriminatory rules—many of them are decades old," says Gubuan. "They may have thought that women would never be weightlifting or playing basketball, period." Most recently, Shirzanan and Athlete's Ally published an open letter to FIBA demanding the ban be lifted, signed by everyone from Breanna Stewart to Billie Jean King.
Interestingly, Nike announced a partnership with FIBA in late February, including becoming "the official FIBA product partner spanning apparel, footwear and equipment."
"The fact that Nike and FIBA are in partnership is a signal to us that FIBA is very serious about including Muslim female athletes, that they're going to be opening up the game to include Muslim women," says Gubuan. The federation is slated to present a proposal from its Technical Commission about lifting the ban in May, though a vote on the same subject has already been postponed twice. The next Women's Basketball World Cup will be held in September 2018—a few months after the Pro Hijab is slated to hit stores.

Ironically, the mainstreaming of Muslim women in sports has taken a leap forward in the same moment when many of those very women face threats to their travel and traditional way of life.
"With the new administration, people are looking at this as a signal of inclusion, and that's what we need," says Gubuan. Van den Bremen adds, "Muslim women in sports still face barriers, but ultimately they're role models. Eventually, the hijab will not be as remarkable as it is right now."
For young Muslim athletes like Nada Meawad, though, the most important thing isn't what they're wearing, but what they're doing while they're wearing it. "I'm young now, so I'm probably going to continue playing until I'm like 60," she says, laughing. "It's very hard to get to the Olympics, but I hope I'll be back." 

Paul Pierce's relationship with the Boston Celtics continues to warm hearts everywhere.
After playing his last game against his former franchise Monday in Los Angeles, the Clippers veteran had an autographed jersey delivered to every current Celtic's locker back in Boston, per ESPN.com's Chris Forsberg:
Looks like Paul Pierce left autographed jerseys for every player in Celtics locker room.
This barely a month after the 39-year-old took the floor (and kissed the midcourt logo) at TD Garden for the final time. The C's honored an emotional Pierce, who plans to retire as a Celtic, with a video tribute.
[Twitter, h/t Boston.com]
Arkansas with the dirtiest display of basketball I've seen in quite some time. s://t.co/A07bAjTkKQ
The ending of Sunday's SEC tournament title game got heated.
With about a minute left and Kentucky leading the Arkansas Razorbacks 77-64, Wildcats point guard De'Aaron Fox floated a pass to Bam Adebayo. As the potential lottery pick elevated, he was met with a two-handed shot to the dome from Razorbacks big man Moses Kingsley.
It was a dirty play, and the senior was ejected with a flagrant-2 foul.
Here's WWE legend Jim Ross on the call, via Austin Kellerman:
WATCH: Moses Kingsley goes #WWE on #Kentucky in final minutes of #SECChampionship. Here's the call from @JRsBBQ 👀🐗 s://t.co/NE3Jkxr6iQ
 
The Razborbacks Twitter page and head football coach Bret Bielema seemed to make light of the foul:
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
#WoooPig also love the smiles and hugs the officials give Kentucky players when talking to them about the game and ending s://t.co/yQpvWEpUjp
Fox, who was named tournament MVP, seemed just fine:
De'Aaron Fox gives Arkansas a little parting gift. s://t.co/X3ICpn7eUU
The top-seeded Wildcats kept their cool in the handshake line following their 82-65 win.

A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
Apparently New Orleans Pelicans star Anthony Davis does not like when you swipe things from his home.
On Thursday, Instagram comedians @danrue and @nicknpattiwhack_ teamed up with the Brow for one of their "yeah, baby" skits. One of the funnymen, @nicknpattiwhack_, joked that the personal court they invaded—which was emblazoned with a No. 23—was Michael Jordan's. It was really Davis'.
AD gave the guys a brief tour—they saw "the little award thing [he] just won"—after one of them knocked down a do-or-die shot. It ended with Davis chasing @danrue out the door.
The whole skit is a riot, especially if you're unfamiliar with the narrator's voice.
[Instagram]
DeSean Jackson will wear #11! 
Chris Baker... #90! s://t.co/imBUVyyqls
After signing a three-year, $35 million deal with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers this week, veteran wide receiver DeSean Jackson had some business to take care off. He wanted his No. 11.
Fellow receiver Adam Humphries wore the number in his first two seasons with Tampa, but he agreed to give it to D-Jax on one condition, according to Greg Auman of the Tampa Bay Times.
Money.

Not for himself, though. Humphries gave up the number after "Jackson pledged to make a donation to a children's charity in Tampa," his new home. Per Auman, Humphries plans to make a similar donation in his hometown, Spartanburg, South Carolina.
"For him to be a new member of the Tampa Bay area, it's good for him to get involved like that," Humphries said. "The money wasn't really that big a deal, so we wanted to help out. It's just something good to come out of a little fun between two teammates."
Props to both receivers. Everybody wins.
[Twitter, Tampa Bay Times]
The Los Angeles Lakers introduced Rob Pelinka as their general manager Friday, and the former NBA agent had some gushing words for Kobe Bryant.
"Kobe, what Michelangelo is the art, what Beethoven is to music, what Shakespeare is to words, you are to me as a friend," he said. "And you are to the Lakers."
The 47-year-old also hinted at potential involvement from the retired legend:
Rob Pelinka said he has "absolutely" talked to Kobe about having possible involvement. Pelinka: "He's 100% behind everything Laker"
This echoed president of basketball operations Magic Johnson, who said in early February he wanted Kobe involved with running the team, per Des Bieler of the Washington Post:
"Kobe understands winning. He understands, also, these players. And so, I would call [and say], 'What role you want, bro? If you've got a day, just give me that day."
Bryant showed his support for his longtime friend earlier this week:
No one knows the business of basketball more than @robpelinka. I wish him &amp; the Lakers much success as they bring winning bball back to LA.
    
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Russell Westbrook and James Harden are the clear-cut top two candidates for this year’s MVP.
But let's not forget about LeBron James.
As B/R's The Hype series detailed, the King is on pace to join Oscar Robertson and Michael Jordan as the only players to average 25 points, eight assists and eight rebounds while shooting over 50 percent from the field.
It's widely accepted that James is still the best player in basketball regardless of the MVP. But perhaps he deserves a bit more credit when it comes to this year's chase for the Maurice Podoloff Trophy.
This is what Coach K's Bitmoji looks like s://t.co/ik1VK0huDi s://t.co/7GdI5POU9P
Duke Blue Devils head coach Mike Krzyzewski is 70 years old.
But instead of going the Bill Belichick route—"SnapFace," anyone?—Coach K seems to be embracing modern messaging platforms.
According to Marc Tracy of the New York Times, Krzyzewski uses a likeness of himself on Bitmoji. He'll send players or administrators messages for holidays, birthdays and even big games.
After No. 14 Duke knocked off the No. 10 Louisville Cardinals in the ACC tournament Thursday, Krzyzewski showed off one (pictured above) that said, "You Can Do It!"
"It's incredible to think he just turned 70," Grayson Allen told Tracy. "We don't feel that way."


On Wednesday, March 8, German soccer club Borussia Dortmund faced Portuguese club Benfica in the second leg of a Champions League tie that very well could have defined the club's season, one way or another.
The first leg had seen the Germans batter their opponents' goal for 90 minutes yet still leave Lisbon with a one-goal deficit. As fans of the Bundesliga side had seen so often this season, luck just wasn't on their side.
The problems didn't stop there for Dortmund head coach Thomas Tuchel. In the preceding two weeks, midfielders Marco Reus and Mario Gotze had been ruled out due to injury and illness, respectively. Dortmund needed goals but were in short supply of talent to fetch them. So the 43-year-old did what he has increasingly begun to do when in need of inspiration: He turned to Christian Pulisic.
Fortunately for him and the ravenous Westfalenstadion crowd, the breakthrough took just four minutes, when the 18-year-old American reached a corner at the front post and flicked it towards the back post for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to calmly knock home.

The Pennsylvania-born talent then doubled Dortmund's lead with another quick intervention, this time 14 minutes into the second half, when Lukasz Piszczek played the forward through, allowing him to carefully dink the ball over the oncoming goalkeeper.
With a goal and an assist, Pulisic had almost single-handedly saved Dortmund's Champions League campaign. 
Aubameyang would later bag two more goals and leave the pitch with a hat trick and a man-of-the-match award, but the evening belonged to someone else. Pulisic had once again performed at the highest level, showing just why he's considered one of the most exciting talents in the sport right now. 
Although the winger has enjoyed most of his goals and assists in demolition jobs, such as the 6-2 win over Bayer Leverkusen last week and the 6-0 win over Darmstadt at the start of the season, he's also stepped up with crucial breakthroughs when it mattered.
His goal and assist to let Dortmund take a point at Ingolstadt in October, his setup for the late equaliser against Real Madrid and an assist in last month's DFB Pokal clash against Hertha Berlin were all vital to keeping Dortmund's season on track. 
Despite only making his debut for the first team a little over a year ago, the U.S. international has already become a vital cog in Tuchel's ever-growing machine of young brilliance. Within 13 months, Pulisic has gone from being in awe of the likes of Reus and Aubameyang to standing shoulder to shoulder with them and often winning games just as they do.
Of course, the young prodigy is well-versed in emulating those who inspire him. Christian's mother and father both played the sport at George Mason University. His father, Mark, earned the title of top goalscorer three out of the four years he played there before moving on to play for the Harrisburg Heat in the National Professional Soccer League. 
"The fact that he grew up in a soccer family is certainly a factor," former U.S. national team coach Bob Bradley told Bleacher Report when asked about the rise of the young Dortmund player. 

"I remember his mom and dad when they were playing at George Mason University, and I know that Mark played with some guys that I coached. What it means is that Christian grew up with soccer around him all the time."
He added: "Being around good examples is where you start to get an idea of what the game is all about."
Bradley first learned of Pulisic's talent when a former player, Richie Williams, told him about a kid he was coaching at the U.S. under-17 program in Bradenton, Florida.
"Everyone knew that Christian was a really talented young player who was coming through our program," he notes. "Obviously when I was then in Egypt, Norway and France and before he came through at Dortmund, I was very aware of what he was doing but I had not seen him play that often."
Yet you'd be hard-pressed to avoid clips of Pulisic's exploits on the pitch now. Every well-tuned football fan across the world is fully aware of the young American's talent and the waves he's been making at Dortmund this season. Although tightly edited into short Vines or elaborate YouTube videos, there's no denying that Pulisic's talent seems to have already transcended the initial, unjustified buzz most young players have thrust upon them after the slightest note of success.
"There's already pressure on Christian, and that extra burden doesn't make sense," Bradley said, referring to the euphoria on both sides of the Atlantic whenever the 18-year-old plays for Dortmund. "But you continue to see his progress. I love the way he plays, his movement, when he has the ball at his feet, and I think he's at a really excellent situation at Dortmund."
Yet it isn't just Dortmund that offers a bright future for the former PA Classics talent. 
At the international level, Pulisic now faces a United States team under new management in Bruce Arena, a coach tasked with taking the nation in a new direction from the varied yet somewhat ineffectual years of Jurgen Klinsmann. Therein lies a perfect opportunity to make himself indispensable to any new-look team for the future. 

"He's certainly going to be an important part of the national team," Bradley added when asked if U.S. Soccer can build a new team around the Dortmund talent. "He can play on either side, he can come inside a little bit—the final answer is how you put your team together."
When asked where Pulisic would play in his team, if he were still the manager, Bradley paused for a moment before answering: "Tactically, Tuchel is very clever. So even when they end up in something like a 4-3-3, where the wide players come inside and play off Aubameyang a little bit, [Pulisic] shows the ability to play from the outside in and put himself in good positions to create." 
He added: "I think the answer for every manager—whether it's club or country—is how you put your team together, knowing that you have a very talented player and you want to take advantage of all of his ability.
"Bruce [Arena] will be interested in utilising all his talents to build a really good team. I think he recognises Christian is going to be a really big part of that and the rest will take care of itself."
From a timid, 16-year-old boy arriving in western Germany to a Champions League and Bundesliga match-winner, Pulisic has enjoyed a truly meteoric rise in an astonishingly short period of time. Where he'll find himself in the next year or two is anyone's guess, but few would bet against him playing an even larger role for the German side and eventually for the United States national team for years to come. 
 
Note: The stats regarding Christian's parents at university were taken directly from a member of staff at the university upon request.
It looked good all the way.

And it was.

P.J. Thompson hits the @BoilerBall halfcourt buzzer-beater. s://t.co/RNq34ERLiS
Purdue Boilermakers guard P.J. Thompson doesn't care about his shooting percentage.
With time about to expire in the first half against the Michigan Wolverines in Friday's Big Ten tournament, the junior bombed a shot with room to spare before the midcourt line.
He drilled it.
Thompson's long-range triple slimmed Michigan's lead to 38-37 heading into halftime, but it wasn't enough. The eighth-seeded Wolverines dethroned the top-seeded Boilermakers 74-70.


With Selection Sunday just days away, we at Bleacher Report decided to form our own selection committee. But instead of examining strength of schedule and wins and losses, we're seeding schools based on their most famous alumni.
From our initial field of more than 50 likely NCAA tournament teams, we've narrowed the list down to an Elite Eight of schools with five stunning celebrity alums. These rosters are chock full of former presidents, pop stars and tech entrepreneurs. And although each of these squads is probably lacking in on-court talent, it has its own ways of capturing our attention. 

This is perhaps the most eclectic roster among the top eight. There’s a league commissioner (Adam Silver), a CEO (Tim Cook), an actor (Ken Jeong), a pop star (Mike Posner) and a president (Richard Nixon). If nothing else, it would be fascinating to be a fly on the wall during their pregame dinner conversations. —David Gardner

You could run a national special with the political debate hypothetically happening on the Orange sideline: Post-White House Joe Biden (hopefully with ice cream in hand), faux White House creator Aaron Sorkin and White House-targeting pundit Megyn Kelly all studied at Syracuse. Bob Costas could moderate (as long as he doesn't have conjunctivitis), while Vanessa Williams could soothe the political tensions with some of her too-often-forgotten songs. —Natalie Weiner

Although Michigan is the No. 6 seed, it could be the best actual basketball team of the lot. Tom Brady, Michael Phelps (who took a few classes while volunteering as an assistant swimming coach) and Derek Jeter (who dropped out after one semester to pursue his Yankees career) may no longer be in the prime of their athletic lives, but they still seem like a pretty formidable three-man roster. Add in James Earl Jones doing play-by-play and Madonna as the halftime performer, and I'm buying tickets. —D.G.

What do these five Wildcats have in common? Not much, as it turns out. While Kourtney Kardashian and Nicole Richie attended together in the late '90s, they probably didn't cross paths with superstar Saturday Night Live alum Kristen Wiig or notoriously shirtless Fox pundit Geraldo Rivera. Rivera could chop it up politically with former presidential candidate Bob Dole, though, and who knows? They might even help come up with a fair and balanced game plan. —N.W.

The wealthiest roster—Jeff Bezos is worth north of $70 billion—checks in as our No. 4 seed. And although Brooke Shields, David Duchovny and Ralph Nader are all plenty famous, let's face it: This list is all about Bezos and our beloved former first lady, Michelle Obama. —D.G.

The Wildcats certainly don't lack for emcees on their alumni roster, with Stephen Colbert, Seth Meyers and Jerry Springer all earning a spot in the starting lineup. Julia Louis-Dreyfus gets bonus points because her son, Charlie Hall, is actually on the basketball team (he's a freshman). Pharrell also gets bonus points because, well, even if he dropped out after two years, he still produced "Grindin'." —N.W.

It should be no surprise that the L.A.-area schools have produced the most famous alumni squads. Although Spielberg did not actually attend USC—he was rejected three times—he did earn an honorary degree in 1994 because of his fondness for the school. Spielberg and Lucas are two of the most acclaimed directors in the world, Forest Whitaker is an Academy Award winner, and Will Ferrell is a national treasure. He even has some hoops experience. O.J. Simpson rounds out the roster as perhaps the most infamous man in America. —D.G.

With Hollywood just a hop, skip and a jump away from campus, UCLA's celebrity bench is enviably deep—one might even say the school's starting five is filled with National Treasures (sorry). Although Kunis and Franco both had shortened stays at UCLA, they round out an impressive roster with versatile actor Nicolas Cage, Trekkie-turned-Facebook pundit George Takei and socially active basketball legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (back when he was Lew Alcindor). The Bruins easily take the top spot. —N.W.
Holy smokes, how did George Mason manager Bryson Johnson spot this contact lens from across the floor!? s://t.co/QNvNdr3amk
This George Mason Patriots team manager has impeccable court vision.
Early in the first half of Thursday's 82-71 overtime win against the Fordham Rams in the Atlantic 10 tournament, graduate manager Bryson Johnson spotted a contact lens all the way across the floor. It belonged to George Mason point guard Otis Livingston II.
Anyone with contacts knows how impressive this is. It's hard enough to spot a dropped lens inches away. Homing in on one from that distance is almost unfathomable.
Johnson's keen eye paid off big-time. Livingston was crucial in sending the game to overtime:
THREEEE for Otis Livingston!

Back-to-back triples for Mason. 

Patriots down just three (64-61) with 23 sec to go #GetPatriotic
OT!!!!! s://t.co/kBc98aDg5q
The sophomore guard scored 17 points and grabbed seven boards in 41 minutes.
[Twitter, h/t NBC Sports]
Dwyane Wade respects Paul George 💯 s://t.co/M9IvJK4T5W
"Back in the day," Chicago Bulls guard Dwyane Wade told Paul George he wanted a signed pair of the Indiana Pacers star's first signature shoe.
Earlier this week, D-Wade revealed on his Snapchat account that George sent him some autographed PG1s. The forward wrote, "Love & respect champ."
Wade gushed over PG-13, calling him one of his favorite players and "one of those guys that you wish your game was as smooth as his."
According to Wade, that's the first signed signature shoe he's received from another NBA player.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
A photo posted by Brandon Marshall (@bmarshall)
Last offseason, then-New York Jets wide receiver Brandon Marshall challenged Pittsburgh Steelers superstar Antonio Brown to a bet: Whoever had more receiving yards in 2016 got a fancy car from the other.
Marshall put up his Porsche, and Brown put up his Rolls-Royce.
The contest wasn't close.
AB racked up 1,284 yards, fifth-most in the NFL, while Marshall caught for 788 on the struggling Jets.
After Marshall agreed to a two-year deal with the New York Giants on Wednesday, the 32-year-old posted a picture of his contract. Brown quickly chimed in, reminding Marshall that he stills owes him a Porsche:
Done Deal!!!! #GMEN s://t.co/9sFpQBXjFx
Now u can send the Porshe bro 🔥🤔 s://t.co/iCnkxIe4Fe
In January, B-Marsh said on Inside the NFL that he'd donate the value of his Porsche, about $100,000, to Project 375, an organisation he co-founded to help promote mental health awareness.
[Twitter, Instagram]
While walking to a recent Pittsburgh Penguins game, a fan named Jimmy Mains encountered a homeless man who was asking for money.
Mains offered a spare ticket instead.
The homeless man, Rob, was said to have had a fantastic time as the Pens beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 5-2. From Mains' Facebook post:
We went in and the whole time he couldn't stop smiling. Once we got to our seats it was time for the National Anthem. Rob took off his hat and sang the whole time. Once the puck dropped he cheered the whole game. During intermission we got chicken tenders. At the end of the game he told me that I made his life.
Respect.
[Facebook, h/t CBS Pittsburgh]
LaMelo Ball, point guard at Chino Hills (California) High School and younger brother of UCLA star Lonzo Ball, has range.
Remember when he called his shot from half court and buried it last month? On Friday, the sophomore—who committed to UCLA when he was 13—tried to bomb another one.
It got blocked.
Ball tried to mimic his original viral shot, but point guard Miles Oliver was all over it.
The youngest of the Ball brothers redeemed himself with a silky-smooth, no-look pass later in the game as Chino Hills defeated Etiwanda 72-67.
Ballislife.com provided more highlights from the game:
[h/t Ballislife.com]
Seahawks’ Earl Thomas has a message for Tom Brady. s://t.co/XyLiudamkc
Hours after the Seattle Seahawks succumbed to the high-scoring Atlanta Falcons 36-20 on Saturday, injured safety Earl Thomas lashed out about Tom Brady on Twitter.
Thomas, who broke his leg against the Carolina Panthers on Dec. 4, was set off by the New England Patriots' 34-16 win against the Houston Texans.
Tom Brady has the easiest route... put his ass in our division and see what he does!!! #salty!!
Specifically, Thomas took issue with the Pats' road to the playoffs. Colin Cowherd of Fox Sports talked about the list of quarterbacks New England saw this year on his Friday show:
"New England's the most overvalued team in the playoffs... Kansas City's easily the most undervalued team." — @ColinCowherd s://t.co/eTOs9L0CF7
When fans called Thomas out for losing to Brady in Super Bowl 49, he gave a reminder about his separated shoulder:
@Earl_Thomas who's the safety in coverage here? s://t.co/j1DFY25FgW
Did you watch the game this year I owned Tom Brady!! That BS you showing I was hurt trying to help my team. s://t.co/ZB6ts0ObuQ
How much of a beast is #Seahawks S Earl Thomas? Played in Super Bowl with a separated shoulder &amp; torn labrum. Having surgery, out 6-8 months
Seattle defeated the Patriots 31-24 in Foxborough this season, back on Nov. 13.
Thomas, who seemed to contemplate retirement immediately after his injury, can't wait for his next crack at New England:
Brain washed ! I expect that! See you next year!
Ok I'm done venting now. Everyone knows I'm a competitor...hate to see my brothers come up short  &amp; our biggest rivals win.


Long before he was an NBA champion and LeBron James' superstar sidekick, the Cleveland Cavaliers' Kyrie Irving attended St. Patrick High School in Elizabeth, New Jersey.
Uncle Drew hasn't forgotten his roots. On Friday, ZagsBlog's Adam Zagoria reported that Irving is covering the tuition for 12-year-old Spencer Joyner, who was diagnosed with "pseudotumor cerebri, a debilitating condition that results in migraine headaches and can cause vision loss" in November.
St. Pat's closed in 2012 and was replaced by the nondenominational Patrick School, which Joyner attends.
"It made me feel really good and lucky to have one of my favorite players do that," Spencer told Zagoria.
Irving also paid for the funeral of 14-year-old Nixon Geraldo, another Patrick School student who collapsed during basketball practice and later died. Kyrie donates money to the school regularly and provides athletic gear for the basketball team.
Spencer has yet to meet the 24-year-old All-Star. The Patrick School team visited Spencer and his family after Christmas, and that's when head coach Chris Chavannes told the Joyner family about Irving's gesture.
"I'm just thankful that I have a great support system and great financial team that allows to give back to our community and support those kids," Irving said, "not only just the athletes but the students that we have at the school."
[h/t ZagsBlog]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
During the second quarter of Thursday's 113-108 loss to the Dallas Mavericks in Mexico, Phoenix Suns forward TJ Warren toppled over Deron Williams on the baseline.
Warren went down near photographers and first-row fans, which is common for NBA games.
But things got weird when a fan latched onto Warren and tried to take a selfie.
The 23-year-old looked peeved as he ripped his arm away, and rightfully so. Nobody was hurt, but fans grabbing players is a recipe for disaster.
A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
Retired boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr. loves his cash.
On Thursday, the man who last season made over $280,000 on bets in just six quarters of basketball strolled around ESPN studios with what he said was $80,000 in a backpack.
Mayweather wasn’t carrying the backpack himself, though. He said there's also a "trick bag" to throw off potential robbers.
The 39-year-old was at ESPN to support Saturday’s fight involving Badou Jack, who’s represented by Mayweather Promotions.
He also took the opportunity to call out UFC lightweight champion Conor McGregor. The two have been trading jabs over a potential bout for months.
[Instagram, ESPN, h/t Fox Sports]
In a very cozy and private ceremony, today we retired @MattBonner_SAS 's flannel shirt. #ThankYou15 s://t.co/BXW8NyZC0R
How do you say goodbye to a legend?
The San Antonio Spurs have figured it out.
On Thursday night, they honored newly retired forward Matt Bonner, who was with the team from 2006 through 2016. Manu Ginobili tweeted a picture of a makeshift jersey—a flannel shirt with Bonner's name and No. 15 on the back—saying the team retired his number.
"In a very cozy and private ceremony," Ginobili wrote.
Here's a closer look, provided by Jeff McDonald of the San Antonio Express-News:
Without ceremony, the Spurs have retired Matt Bonner's jersey s://t.co/TUD20tXOZi
Bonner, always a character, loved it:
@manuginobili Wicked hilarious guys... you got me good! Whose shirt was that? 😂😂😂😂
What do you think? Next year's NBA Christmas jerseys?  s://t.co/66rLB1SS1V
The 36-year-old, redheaded sniper has since joined the Spurs broadcast team.


Steve Smith Sr. quit his sports job by sending a brief, witty letter to the NFL commissioner. Kobe Bryant went out by turning back the clock and putting up 60 points in his final game.
Sure, athletes could retire via a stuffy news conference after a lackluster season. Or, they could make a hilarious video. They could—if they're lucky—end their career with a jaw-dropping performance or even a championship.
There are meh ways to go out, and there are great ways to go out. No one in sports has quite hit the peak this video producer did, but if current trends continue, that's where things could be headed. Sports folks have retired spectacularly in the recent past. Here are the 10 best ways to go out.
    
Via Ominous Social Media Post
Former Seattle Seahawks running back Marshawn Lynch tweeted this during Super Bowl 50:
✌🏿 s://t.co/wesip4IhOR
The photo of cleats hanging up led For the Win's Nate Scott to wonder, "Did Marshawn Lynch announce his retirement with this cryptic tweet?"
In short, yes. Who said retirement announcements had to be clear and direct? Leave it to Beast Mode to put his own unique spin on his NFL departure.
    
Retire 'On the Peak'
Look, it's not that sports fans want to see talented stars retire in their primes. Then again, folks spend plenty of time criticizing the ones who "waited too long," too. So, good for Nico Rosberg for getting out at the top and, more importantly, for doing it his way.
Just five days after winning the Formula One world championship, the 31-year-old German driver announced he was done:
"We're all taken aback"

Our F1 commentator @jack_nicholls with the latest on Nico Rosberg's retirement s://t.co/ERT3b4UqqX
Per Ben Curtis and Oliver Brown of the Telegraph, he said: "For 25 years in racing, it has been my dream, my 'one thing' to become Formula One world champion. Through the hard work, the pain, this has been my target. And now I have made it. I am on the peak, so this feels right."
    
With a Witty Letter to the Commish
Former Baltimore Ravens wide receiver Steve Smith Sr. confirmed his retirement this month after 16 years in the league. Famously outgoing (and unafraid to talk trash), Smith penned a letter to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell that was so...him:
It's official my letter to the @NFL 
#agent89 out ✌
#stevesmithsr #RavensFlock 
#SSmithWPMOYchallenge s://t.co/CMW2PXDPkd
   
With a Killer Last Game 
Bryant retired in 2016 after a legendary 20-year NBA career with the Los Angeles Lakers. He did make fans endure all the retirement-tour hoopla, but he also went out giving them one final gift. In his last game, a regular-season win over the Utah Jazz, the Mamba dropped 60 points:
That’s just Kobe being Kobe s://t.co/hMndWMcjQa
Not every athlete leaves the game with a dominant performance. Like David Robinson did with his NBA Finals double-double, Bryant gave fans a glimpse of his former self in his final game. And it was boss.
     
By Walking into a Better One
Real talk. Alex Rodriguez had a far better 2016 as a sports broadcaster than as an athlete. He batted just .200/.247/.351 in 65 games and retired in August, not even finishing out the regular season.
Rodriguez will surely go down as one of the game's all-time great talents, but his baseball career was tumultuous, to say the least.
The New York Yankees retained him as a special adviser, but A-Rod also joined Fox Sports as an analyst for MLB's postseason coverage, and guess what? People loved him:
.@AROD &amp; @PeteRose_14 shirtless?! 

Oh yeah, it's the final from the vault featuring two legendary photos.  s://t.co/Ka4lewFMYP
A-Rod, likable? That's what a sports career change can do for a guy.
    
With a Heartfelt Letter
Los Angeles Dodgers broadcasting legend Vin Scully retired in 2016. It was a memorable final season and for Scully, but one of the best things about his retirement was this touching letter he wrote to the fans during his final homestand in September:  
To you, from #VIN.🎙 s://t.co/DNlwUKUmMc
The letter (which can be read here, per Mark Townsend of Big League Stew) was warm, personal and of course included a trademark anecdote from the master storyteller. If you are going to quit your sports job, injecting a little authenticity into the process is a nice way to go.
    
You Know, Don't
One way to quit your sports job is to not actually quit, as weird as that might sound.
For instance, you could always go the Conor McGregor route and feign retirement when things aren't going great at work:
I have decided to retire young.
Thanks for the cheese. 
Catch ya's later.
Or, consider the Ray Allen approach: Don't play, but don't announce your retirement either. Allen quit playing but left his door open for a possible comeback for two seasons before officially hanging it up in November.
    
Fade Quietly into the Night
Drama is overrated. San Antonio Spurs great Tim Duncan also retired in 2016, but to far less fanfare than fellow NBA legend Bryant. In fact, the end of the season came and went, and no one had heard a peep from the Big Fundamental on the subject.
When Duncan did officially retire in July, he did it ultra-chill via "press release (with no direct quotes from Duncan or anyone else)," per Jack McCallum of Sports Illustrated:
After 19 seasons, Tim Duncan announces retirement » s://t.co/kQimgv8oIB

#ThankYouTD s://t.co/aLua8MRZtS
Sometimes, the best way to retire is to just Irish goodbye everybody. Tim Duncan style.
    
With a Hilarious Video
Clearly, a hilarious retirement video is in the top here. In February, defensive end Jared Allen rode off into the sunset (literally) with this cheeky video:
Riding off into the sunset s://t.co/wZXovseGKS
More recently, former San Antonio Spurs forward Matt Bonner, aka the "Red Mamba," announced his retirement in a slightly quirky yet charming, self-deprecating (in a funny way) video:
Creativity is key, folks.
    
With a Championship Title
Yes, former Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning announced his retirement via the old standby, the news conference. And no, he didn't put up gaudy numbers in his final game (a paltry 141 yards and no touchdown passes, actually). He did, however, go out the way most athletes likely hope to—with a title:
Peyton Manning is a legend. #MakeHistory s://t.co/pJ0NoGOGd9
All the hilarious retirement videos in the world don't equal a championship.
I'll just leave this here @BleacherReport @SportsCenter @tatefrazier @houseofhighligh s://t.co/tX1UXiD35H
Duke Blue Devils guard Grayson Allen found himself on the wrong side of another "did he do it?" controversy during the team's 88-72 loss to the Florida State Seminoles on Tuesday night.
While pursuing a loose ball near the FSU bench with Duke trailing 75-61 in the second half, it looked like Allen shoved a coach.
Could it have been incidental? Absolutely. Most players would be given the benefit of the doubt—after all, there's no smooth way to topple over a bench.
Allen's past—which includes a laundry list of tripping incidents—forces us to look at this encounter under a stronger microscope, though.
Update from Wednesday, Jan. 11
Florida State assistant coach Dennis Gates, the person on the other side of the play, came to Allen's defense, calling it "a great hustle play": 
I want to make this very clear! #givegraysonabreak @ESPN @TDOnline @Warchant @Noles247 @GraysonJAllen @DukeMBB s://t.co/3gKBNWfUIC
--End of Update--

"He paused in mid-air...and dunked it with his ears."

- @dandakich, on @OAnunoby's highlight @IndianaMBB dunk s://t.co/Y2rIgII8uw
Indiana Hoosiers sophomore forward OG Anunoby has old-school hops.
With 10 seconds to go and his team trailing the Maryland Terrapins 73-70 on Tuesday, the Sporting News preseason All-American unloaded an angry one-handed mega-poster dunk on Terps big man Damonte Dodd.
Here's another look:
Melo Trimble buried a pair of free throws after Indiana fouled to stop the clock, and Robert Johnson missed a last-second three-pointer.
Despite the 75-72 loss, Anunoby has reason to smile after that slam.
[Twitter,  Vine]
Stephen Curry tried to take a charge against Miami Heat forward James Johnson with time winding down in the opening quarter Tuesday night.
It didn't work.
The two-time reigning MVP beat Johnson to the spot, but the 29-year-old journeyman took off before making contact with the Golden State Warriors point guard. When he did touch Curry, Johnson was well on his way to flushing a mammoth two-handed jam.
Curry fell to the floor as Miami ended the first quarter with a 29-27 lead.
[Vine]
MANU, FTW! 

jk. s://t.co/pq0b0trIxM
You knew the San Antonio Spurs were going to get a good look.
Coming out of a timeout with the game on the line? That's when Gregg Popovich butters his bread.
Sure enough, as the clock ticked down from 6.7 seconds with the Spurs trailing the Milwaukee Bucks 109-107, veteran Manu Ginobili found himself wide open in the corner for a triple.
He put the shot up with a second to go. The buzzer sounded. The ball...hit the top of the backboard?
Yup. Thud.
GifJif provided this humorous comparison:
@World_Wide_Wob s://t.co/bjMuonmoAU
Milwaukee improved to 19-18, while San Antonio dropped to 30-8.


Luke Walton and Lamar Odom were Los Angeles Lakers teammates from 2004 through 2011.
Could they one day become coaching colleagues?
On Tuesday, Odom told TMZ he has talked with the 36-year-old head coach about a potential role on the sideline. Walton confirmed the news before L.A. hosted the Portland Trail Blazers that night, per Mark Medina of the Los Angeles Daily News:
Luke Walton confirmed Lamar Odom reached out to him about helping staff. Luke sounded interested but understandably mindful of his recovery
Here is a transcript of Walton's comments, per Serena Winters of Lakers Nation:
Below is the full transcription of Luke Walton’s answers about Lamar Odom today.

[Here is the video to accompany: s://t.co/GT5emzf06d] s://t.co/zu5znxLOih
Though nothing is imminent, if Odom's substance-abuse issues are a thing of the past, he could help Walton with the development of a young, well-rounded stud like Julius Randle.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Gerald Green has never been kind to rims.
Tuesday night against the Toronto Raptors, the Boston Celtics' high-flying forward was especially mean to the iron when All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas floated a lob from the top of the key.
Green rocketed in and unloaded a downright nasty two-handed jam, extending Boston's lead to 95-87 with about eight minutes to go in the fourth quarter.
Al Horford's reaction said it all.
Dwight playin' with ex-teammate Jeremy Lin 😂 s://t.co/nOX8n4tMDg
Got 'em.
During the second quarter of Tuesday's Atlanta Hawks-Brooklyn Nets game, Hawks big man Dwight Howard duped his old pal Jeremy Lin. During a stop in the action, the 7-footer offered a hand to his former Houston Rockets teammate.
Lin took the bait.
Howard dabbed on him.
It was all in good fun, as both players laughed afterward. It sounded like the Barclays Center crowd was amused, too.
[Twitter, Vine]
Creative: The @sixers are sending the media ingredients to make Shirley Temples, @JoelEmbiid's favorite drink, in All-Star vote campaign s://t.co/sru7HWnEzG
The Philadelphia 76ers want to get rookie big man Joel Embiid into the 2017 NBA All-Star Game.
Badly.
Embiid, whose proficiency on Twitter has helped him garner a gargantuan number of fan votes, will also need the help of media members and his peers to get into the game. On Tuesday, the Sixers sent media members a Shirley Temple kit.
Of course, Brian Geltzeiler reported in 2015 that while recovering from foot surgery, Embiid was putting on weight thanks to pitchers of his favorite drink.
Embiid's since made jokes about the claim (warning: NSFW language):
The Sixers did, too:
.@darrenrovell #NBAVote Joel Embiid s://t.co/hdMqYaKJwu
In addition to sending out the kits, the Sixers will be selling Shirley Temples at Wells Fargo Center during Wednesday's game against the New York Knicks:
In honor of its All-Star vote push for Joel Embiid, the 76ers &amp; vendor Aramark will sell 16 oz Shirley Temples on tomorrow vs Knicks for $5 s://t.co/jvHoRjKwLX

A photo posted by New York Giants (@nygiants)
The New York Giants wide receivers aren't too big on shirts.
On Monday, the group snapped a viral photo while posing shirtless on a boat in Miami. Odell Beckham Jr. rocked Timberland boots, via Justin Witmondt of USA Today:
So OBJ, Sterling Shepard, Victor Cruz, and Roger Lewis flew to Miami last night, went clubbing, and are on a boat. Living life. #Giants s://t.co/SE6QqfuYfT
OBJ, Victor Cruz, Sterling Shepard and other receivers took the field before Sunday's Wild Card Weekend game against the Green Bay Packers dressed like they were going on another boat trip.
Just to be clear, it's cold, as Gary Myers of the New York Daily News noted:
Temperature in Green Bay right now is 1 lonely degree. Supposed to be 13 degrees by kickoff. Wind chill now is minus 12. Ice Bowl III.
Running back Rashad Jennings joined the party, too:
It doesn't matter what the temperature is! Let's heat it up!! #2017Playoffs #GiantsNation s://t.co/8TZnaIPSgR
Beckham eventually donned some layers. ESPN.com's Jordan Raanan captured the star wideout honoring Giants legend Lawrence Taylor with a hoodie:
Odell Beckham warms up in LT jersey. Didn't have problems catching balls. First game (college or pro) w/temps under s://t.co/7oFWFVd0QG
Jarvis Landry, Beckham's friend and former LSU teammate, wore a similar sweatshirt before his Miami Dolphins took on the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. Landry honored former Dolphins running back Ricky Williams, via Jeff Darlington of ESPN:
Jarvis Landry rocking a killer Ricky Williams jersey during warmups. s://t.co/BS3ibulU9i
Oh, and OBJ's cleats? Cartoon mice—including Mickey Mouse and Itchy, from The Simpsons—with a cheese-pattern background:
Odell Beckham Jr. is going after the cheese @k_obrand s://t.co/DK8FrQhKzc
Packers...cheeseheads...get it?
[Twitter, Instagram]
Hey, this Antonio Brown guy isn't bad.
Maybe the Miami Dolphins should cover him.
Less than three minutes into Sunday's Wild Card Weekend game, the Pittsburgh Steelers star receiver busted loose for a 50-yard touchdown on a screen pass from Ben Roethlisberger. It was the first postseason touchdown of Brown's career.
He didn't have to wait long for No. 2.
On Pittsburgh's next possession, Brown took a pass over the middle 62 yards to the house.
Decent start.
8 minutes in and AB already has a ridiculous stat line:

3 CATCHES 
119 YARDS
2 TDs 🔥 s://t.co/VpMcBXAQ4i


The reigning Super Bowl champion Denver Broncos failed to make the playoffs this season.
At 9-7, Denver finished behind two AFC West rivals in the Kansas City Chiefs and Oakland Raiders, who were both 12-4.
With the second-seeded Chiefs on a bye, the Silver and Black, sans quarterback Derek Carr, fell to the Houston Texans in the first game of Wild Card Weekend on Saturday.
Broncos linebacker Brandon Marshall loved it.
The 27-year-old trolled Raiders fans on Twitter, both with his own words and the retweeted messages of other Denver fans:
I been waiting all game to Troll these raider fans! Where y'all at? There's plenty of room on my couch for you lol
@BMarshh54 @osmaninthacut s://t.co/heqRRG30la
@BMarshh54 eating up these sorry ass Raiders fans like lunch meat 😤 s://t.co/3Ysk40l0R5
@BMarshh54 Hey Raider fans! s://t.co/SYXsEMChO8
Oakland and Denver split their season series. The Broncos defeated the Raiders in Week 17, when a win would've given Oakland a first-round bye.

Bubba Bolden is not a kicker.
So when the USC commit booted the ball during a field-goal attempt in Saturday's U.S. Army All-American Bowl, it was a big deal. The 4-star defensive back from Las Vegas' Bishop Gorman High School leaped over the offensive line and beat the opposing kicker to the ball.
He then picked it up and returned it for a touchdown.
Previously committed to the Trojans, Bolden re-opened his recruitment over the summer. But he donned a USC cap once again Saturday:
DB Bubba Bolden commits to #USC: s://t.co/jG6LnnenqT
[Vine, Twitter, h/t the Big Lead]
Jadeveon Clowney looked like a No. 1 pick to begin Saturday's Wild Card Weekend game against the Oakland Raiders.
After nearly picking off rookie Connor Cook on Oakland's opening drive, the third-year Houston Texans defensive end got him on the second.
Clowney got inside the 10-yard line after his tipped interception, setting up Texans running back Lamar Miller for an easy four-yard score.
Houston led 10-0 after Nick Novak's extra point with 6:16 to go in the opening quarter.


Remember Smash Mouth?
Hey now, you're an All-Star…
Yeah, those guys. On Saturday, the band went after Golden State Warriors star Draymond Green, who exploded on Kevin Durant after an ill-advised isolation late in Friday's collapse against the Memphis Grizzlies.
Smash Mouth, which is based in San Jose, brought up Green's past disputes, including the notorious one with Dubs head coach Steve Kerr that ESPN.com's Ethan Sherwood Strauss reported on in October:
Green has yet to respond.

Scary moment as a car flipped in front of our bus en route to LSU. Glad we were able to help this lady get out of her car. #HailState s://t.co/YanATdwrJe
On Friday, head coach Ben Howland and the Mississippi State basketball team helped a woman, Carolyn Ashley, whose car flipped on a highway.
The team, which was traveling to Baton Rouge for a matchup against LSU, saw the woman's SUV slide before it slipped off the road.
"She just spun out and went flying off the road," Howland told ESPN.com's Myron Medcalf. "There were multiple tumbles and turns."
Bulldogs players got off the bus to help, but fearing another accident, Howland told them to stay put and worked to free Ashley from the car along with director of operations Michael Moynihan and strength coach David Deets.
Once they got Ashley out, team trainer Ryan Dotson examined her and determined Ashley escaped without major injuries. Players and staffers then helped her onto the bus, where she waited for medical personnel before the team continued its journey.
"It's really a blessing she walked away from that," Howland said. "The car was totaled. I'm really thankful we weren't seeing something that was more of a disaster. Wearing her seatbelt saved her life."
[h/t ESPN.com]
This Tennessee Volunteers fan is dedicated.
After seeing "Roll Tide" on the back of a truck Thursday, he exited his vehicle, ran up and wiped it out. Then he wrote "Go Vols" and high-tailed it back, as the previously red light turned green.
Per WBIR, the swap took place in Knoxville—so, the heart of Vols country.
Alabama will take on Clemson in the College Football Playoff National Championship on Monday at 8 p.m. ET.
[Facebook, h/t For The Win]
Hey @JimIrsay - You can block us on twitter, but they will leave things on the doorstep... s://t.co/1Ew5vsRfqW
Indianapolis Colts fans are fed up.
After missing the playoffs in 2015 and 2016 with back-to-back 8-8 seasons that featured impressive play by quarterback Andrew Luck (when healthy) but a sieve of an offensive line and poor defense, fans are taking action.
On Friday, a cardboard sign bearing the words "Stop wasting Luck" popped up in front of a team facility.
It's likely a response to a report by the Indy Star's Zak Keefer that owner Jim Irsay is likely to retain head coach Chuck Pagano and general manager Ryan Grigson.
Keep an eye out for more signs.
Does this need to start happening everyday? Maybe he listens? Anyone know if this is technically legal... asking for a friend.
[Twitter, h/t Indy Star]
Proud to announce that world famous recording artist @Usher will be an honorary captain for @UMichFootball in 2017 s://t.co/7dGaeRaqcV
Meet the Michigan Wolverines' 2017 honorary captain, everyone: Usher Raymond IV.
Head coach Jim Harbaugh met the pop star at the Reach Higher and Counselor of the Year Event hosted by Michelle Obama on Friday morning and later posted a picture captioned by the announcement.
The first lady, who's worked with Harbaugh on promoting higher education, zinged him during her speech, too.
"Coach Jim Harbaugh and his beautiful wife, who's a lot better looking than him," she said while recognizing guests, per Angelique S. Chengelis of the Detroit News.
Harbaugh also provided an update on the baby he and his wife, Sarah, are expecting:
Baby John expected 1 month from today. Same birthday as Bob Marley, Ronald Reagan and Babe Ruth #MicDrop s://t.co/EznzExo91z
A day in the life.
[Twitter, h/t College Football Talk]
A photo posted by Sports Videos (@houseofhighlights)
Late in the fourth quarter of the Golden State Warriors' collapse against the Memphis Grizzlies on Friday, Kevin Durant called his own number.
He asked Steph Curry for the ball at midcourt, held it and misfired on an attempt from distance.
Draymond Green was not pleased.
It's unclear exactly what set Green off, but he was noticeably irritated when KD took the ball from Curry. Following a Grizzlies timeout, Green seemed to lay into his new teammate, but there was no bad blood, as they ended the exchange with a high-five.
Golden State blew a 24-point second-half lead and fell to Memphis in overtime, 128-119.
A photo posted by Edgerrin James (@edgerrinjames)
Retired NFL running back Edgerrin James didn't make the cut for the Pro Football Hall of Fame's 2017 class.
He's got a way to fix that.
On Friday, the former Indianapolis Colts star reposted an image from fellow retired back Clinton Portis that showed James leads the NFL in all-time success rate, an advanced stat that accounts for a rusher's consistency based on down and distance, per Football Outsiders.
While that's certainly an impressive stat, it was James' caption that drew the most eyes:
"And they don't wanna let me in the 'HOF'.... but 'IDGAF'... But when they do, I'm gonna have the Biggest Party with the most Skkrrippers Canton has ever seen and pay for every Voters lap dances all nite long... (Heart Attack alert)...compliments of The Edge." Lol #ONE
The Edge, folks. If he gets in, Canton will never be the same.
[Instagram]
Hey @russellmartin55 rockin your number tonight for bluejays night. #favouriteJay @WHLPats @BlueJays s://t.co/FUK7jBAavX
Baseball and hockey collided (in a good way) Friday in Canada's Western Hockey League, a 22-club organization focused on player development.
During their 6-2 win over the Calgary Hitmen, the Regina Pats held Blue Jays Night, which featured jerseys modeled after those of the MLB team.
Pretty cool:
Blue Jays jersey night tonight. @MStrooo6 what do you think? @BlueJays @WHLPats s://t.co/VFPgO7ZxwJ
4 faves from tonight's big 6-2 win @keithhershphoto @tyler_brown31 @chobbs15 @ssteel23 @nhenry19 @TheWHL #JoinTheRegiment #yqr @BrandtCentre s://t.co/UZW6QHjfBU
Toronto outfielder Ezequiel Carrera was in attendance:
Hey @WHLHitmen, mind if we use Zeke tonight? 

#JoinTheRegiment s://t.co/NMnYIaHSav
Special night with Ezequiel Carrera @BlueJays @keithhershphoto @TheWHL #yqr #JoinTheRegiment @BrandtCentre s://t.co/UbaYIGZCF4
[Twitter, h/t The Score]
According to @50cent, a boxing match between Kenyon Martin &amp; Tim Thomas has been added to the undercard of the Chris Brown/ Soulja Boy bout s://t.co/snYLrUv3aL
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
Retired NBA big men Tim Thomas and Kenyon Martin have beef.
On Friday, rapper 50 Cent took to Instagram to claim that Thomas and K-Mart will settle things in the ring on the same card headlined by rappers Soulja Boy and Chris Brown. Retired boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr. is promoting the bout.
That'd be a star-studded undercard scrap.
Thomas and Martin have been foes for years, as Jason McIntyre detailed at The Big Lead.
The fight is said to be taking place in Las Vegas this March.

.@Sevens rocking these R2-D2 jerseys for Star Wars night tonight. D-League does it right man. s://t.co/lgVgYp2hkz
Before hosting the Orlando Magic affiliate Erie Bayhawks Friday night, the Delaware 87ers showed off some sweet R2-D2 jerseys for Star Wars night.
Chris Reichert of the Step Back passed along the first look.
According to the Sevens, they will auction off the jerseys to benefit Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children. In addition, the team will donate 20 percent of tickets purchased with the promo code "NEMOURS" to the hospital.
While the jerseys are the star of the show, here's another cool nugget: "Jedi Master Yoda" will serve as the public address announcer.
A good promotion, this is.

.@GaryPayton_20 &amp; KG join the #InsidetheNBA crew from @KGArea21 to talk Harden, Westbrook, the MVP race &amp; as always, Chuck vs KG 😂 s://t.co/M7tRjxHfz4
Note: Skip ahead to 4:40 for the exchange between the two legendary big men.
During Thursday night’s Inside the NBA broadcast, Charles Barkley jabbed Kevin Garnett over being a "borderline" Hall of Famer.
KG, who retired in September, is obviously not eligible. When he is, in 2021, there's zero doubt he'll get in.
Still, Garnett had to respond to Sir Charles' teasing. The Big Ticket immediately snapped into the trash-talking persona that defined much of his playing career, repeating the word "champion" over and over.
Of course, Barkley never won a title—so Garnett called him a "borderline champion."
That's a knockout shot.

"I go to the playoffs every year in Madden" 😂😂 s://t.co/juibOKQLhj
New York Giants defensive tackle Damon "Snacks" Harrison has never been to the playoffs during his five-year NFL career.
But he does have postseason experience. Just ask him.
"I just won a Super Bowl last night on Madden with the Green Bay Packers. I go to the playoffs every year on Madden, so I have some playoff experience," Snacks told reporters ahead of Sunday's Wild Card Round game against the NFC North champions.
Harrison kept a straight face before mentioning Aaron Rodgers, whose life he will aim to complicate this weekend.
"I was using Rodgers pretty good on Madden, so hopefully I know some of his weaknesses, because, you know, Madden doesn't lie," Harrison said while laughing.
When asked if real-life or digital Rodgers was better, Snacks kept joking.
"Depends on who—you see these thumbs right here, man?" he said, showing off his dexterity. "I can make anybody great on Madden."

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Pau Gasol is a dedicated flopper—so much so that he's now exaggerating contact from his teammates.
During Thursday's 127-99 win over the Denver Nuggets, San Antonio Spurs star Kawhi Leonard stole the rock from the big man near the top of the key. Gasol, assuming Leonard was a defender, threw his arms up in hopes of drawing a whistle.
It never came.
Leonard drove to the hole and scored on Danilo Gallinari. He finished with 24 points, six boards and five assists.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Over the course of a basketball game, uniforms can take a beating or come undone. It's common.
What isn't common is when a player drops his shorts to the hardwood to adjust...during a game.
That's what Toronto Raptors center Lucas Nogueira did as Utah Jazz forward Derrick Favors attempted a free throw in the third quarter Thursday night. Dropped 'em right down.
The Raptors won 101-93. Nogueira, clearly comfortable, totaled four points and six boards in 26 minutes.
During the Belmont Bruins' 71-66 win over the UT Martin Skyhawks on Thursday night, one fan ate a scoop of mayonnaise from a giant jar behind the broadcast crew.
It appeared to be the real thing too (not a similar-looking product such as ice cream). The woman sitting next to him recoiled in disgust.
That wasn't the only time he consumed the condiment, either:
@SportsCenter @vine I really eat mayonnaise. It's quite tasty. Kinda like that @Belmontwbb win over UT Martin. #itsMAYOtime s://t.co/QpfkFC3Uk0
One has to wonder how he managed to enter the arena with a jug of mayo.
Anyhow, he got on TV and went viral. Mission accomplished.
[Vine]
Nick Young celebrated a deep three-pointer before it went in Tuesday night.
This time, though, it actually found the bottom of the net.
Swaggy P's thrusting was warranted, as his Los Angeles Lakers held a 57-48 lead on the Memphis Grizzlies after two quarters. Young was 6-of-10 from long distance with 20 points heading into the fourth, and the Lakers had stretched their advantage to 91-77.
[Vine]
Talk about a walk-off.
With 5.6 seconds to go and the score tied at 88 on Tuesday night against the Kansas State Wildcats, Kansas Jayhawks guard Sviatoslav Mykhailiuk came up clutch. The Ukrainian junior went nearly coast-to-coast and laid in a smooth game-winning layup.
While Jayhawks fans celebrated, KSU seemed to have a serious gripe with the officials—it looked like Mykhailiuk took three steps.
Or four.
Of course Kansas gets three steps for he win and it not be a walk. Did anyone expects @KU refs to call this? Wow. @Big12Conference s://t.co/O3gmTwwpQi
Kansas came out on top, though, extending its home winning streak to 50 games—the longest in the nation.

This is what "the process" is all about.
After blowing a 26-point lead against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night, the Philadelphia 76ers won in dramatic fashion. With 1.6 seconds to go, rookie Dario Saric lofted an inbounds pass to Robert Covington, who laid the ball in while falling to the floor.
Down 93-91, the Wolves couldn't score with 0.2 seconds remaining.
Philly improved to 9-24, while Minnesota slid to 11-24.
[Vine]
😂😂😂 s://t.co/tYsfmzSkwJ
During the San Antonio Spurs' game against the Toronto Raptors on Tuesday, the Spurs mascot trolled pop star Mariah Carey over her disastrous performance on New Year's Eve.
Unfamiliar? Her lip-syncing was anything but synchronized, and for most of the show, she held the microphone away from her face.
The Spurs spoofed Carey's can't-look-away-it's-so-bad performance with the same song, "Emotions," and similar visuals.
After apparent microphone trouble, the Coyote stormed off the floor.
[Twitter, YouTube]
Insane.

Dunk of the year candidate from DII Clark Atlanta. (via @HBCUGameday) s://t.co/awlNdMSEH1
Clark Atlanta Panthers guard Derek Harper treated one LeMoyne-Owen Magicians defender like a step-up ladder Monday night.
With 3:05 to go in the second half and his team up 71-69, the senior drove into the paint and launched himself off a defender, who was trying to draw a charge.
Harper channeled his inner Allen Iverson and stepped over the fallen defender, too.
He scored a team-high 20 points in the 76-73 victory.

Anyone who's ever been to a high school basketball game will tell you parents can get a tad wild.
This was a different level.
After the Wooster Generals defeated the Cardinal Conference rival Lexington Minutemen 63-41 on Friday, adults brawled in the stands.
Per Connor Casey of the Mansfield News Journal (via Courtney Day of the News Journal), students from Wooster were also involved in the scuffle. Day reported that no charges had been filed, though police were investigating.
The teams were held in their locker rooms until the officers gained control of the situation.
Above is a report by Dave Nethers of Fox 8 in Cleveland that features comments by conference commissioner Ron Dessecker, who said he was "embarrassed" and blamed the adults involved.
Here are some uncut videos of the melee (warning: NSFW language):
[YouTube, Fox 8]

Seattle Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett is one of the NFL's most quotable players.
He continued his soundbite dominance when speaking about the Detroit Lions, his team's first-round playoff opponents, on Tuesday.
First, the 31-year-old talked about Zach Zenner, Detroit's 25-year-old second-year running back out of South Dakota State. Zenner has three rushing touchdowns in the Lions' past two games.
Here's Bennett on Zenner, per Dave Birkett of the Detroit Free Press:
I think the running back, man, he's—there's not many white running backs in the NFL but he has to be the best right now. He's doing such a great job of cutbacks and hitting the hole. He's a really good back. I know all the stuff he did in college, three straight seasons of 2,000 yards. I don't care where you're at, if you can do that you have got amazing talent.
Next, Bennett took a playful jab at Lions wide receiver Golden Tate, who spent his first four pro seasons with the Seahawks:
Golden Tate is just one of those players he can do so much. He can catch the ball, run the ball. His YAC [yards after catch] is just outstanding. And sometimes, he got the weirdest looking body but he can always make plays. I always think he looks like a bird, but I can never understand how that body does what it does.
Seattle hosts Detroit at 8:15 p.m. ET Saturday.
[h/t Detroit Free Press]
Michael Bennett's sweatshirt at today's #Seahawks presser: "Two pumps gets you a baby, three pumps gets you a fine." #Q13FOX @mosesbread72 s://t.co/6jCbNqsRQZ
After getting flagged following his rowdy sack dance against the Los Angeles Rams in Week 15, Seattle Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett reached deep in to his endless bag of soundbites:
Michael Bennett on being flagged for sack dance: "I’m never clear on the NFL rules.” “Two pumps get you a baby. Three pumps get you a fine."
Here's the dance in question:
three pumps: the video

starring michael bennett s://t.co/OjbG4cS0jj
Those words resurfaced Tuesday, when the 31-year-old donned a sweatshirt with an image of himself uttering the quote.
This isn't the first time Bennett has put the "pump rule" celebration on clothing. He did so last week with an ugly Christmas sweater:
.@mosesbread72's holiday sweater is 👌🏼👌🏼👌🏼 #Seahawks #threepumps s://t.co/3N1Jwe1U87
Bennett is selling the newest version on his Black Santa 72 website. There's another model that features Bennett thrusting in front of the words "two pumps only."
A photo posted by black santa (@blacksanta72)
"Sales are going through the roof," Bennett said Tuesday, via Stephen Cohen of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer:
#Seahawks DE Michael Bennett's got a new sweatshirt with his "two pumps gets you a baby, three gets you a fine" quote. s://t.co/ijU89AvJFm
[Twitter, Instagram]
GOT HEEEEEEEM #BackThePac s://t.co/nTgrZNJl3k
With time winding down in the first half of Friday's Hyundai Sun Bowl, North Carolina Tar Heels quarterback Mitch Trubisky fumbled.
It was a clean strip…by the referee. Here's another look:
Just great defense, folks.
If there are no consequences for a ref forcing a fumble, what's stopping a ref from straight up intercepting a pass?
Sophomore defensive end Dylan Jackson pounced on the loose ball for Stanford. The Cardinal converted the turnover into a field goal and went into halftime with a 13-7 lead.
[Twitter, Vine]
kevinmcguire: That John Diarse TD for TCU is worth multipl… #LibertyBowl ESPN Liberty Bowl:… s://t.co/aaVAYP056o s://t.co/6oPWkeJvOj
With 2:08 left in the third quarter of Friday's Liberty Bowl, TCU wide receiver John Diarse hauled in an unreal nine-yard touchdown to give his team a 23-21 lead.
The junior LSU transfer kept control of the rock despite swarming defense from Georgia Bulldogs cornerback Deandre Baker. As Baker got physical, Diarse protected the ball with his left hand while falling to the ground.
There's nothing you can do as a defender here:
This 9-yard touchdown catch by John Diarse gives TCU a 23-21 lead. s://t.co/BiKVD4EZOm
This was Diarse's second score of the afternoon. He previously caught a 10-yard touchdown to give the Horned Frogs a 16-7 lead in the second quarter.

Well worth the wait for @MilesWood28! He's leaving D.C with two points and an @ovi8 autographed picture. s://t.co/OQIuHLDqxB
New Jersey Devils winger Miles Wood, even as an 11-year-old, meant business.
Before Thursday's game against the Washington Capitals, reporter Julie Robenhymer passed along a challenge Wood made to Alex Ovechkin 10 years earlier:
Ten years ago @MilesWood28 sent Ovechkin a hockey card to sign w/ a note: If you don't, I'll check you 1st chance I get when I make the NHL.
Ten years ago, @MilesWood28 vowed to fulfill a promise to @ovi8 if they ever met in the @NHL. Tonight they will. s://t.co/GEctDnVuOz
Word must have passed along to Ovi, who made good on the request with a signed photo that said, "Take it easy tonight."
.@NJDevils We good now, @MilesWood28? @NHL @ovi8 s://t.co/Tgubvz630u
The two met after the Devils won 2-1. Ovechkin wore a red robe while apologizing for leaving Wood hanging, per NHL.com's Tom Gulitti:
@ovi8 to @MilesWood28 "Sorry about the card." s://t.co/YC15ODPC9S

An Auburn player invaded Georgia's huddle, and Georgia didn't even notice

(Video via @EdwardsMichaelG)
s://t.co/3ZG7BSSMvw
We've seen players sneak into enemy huddles before. Chicago Bulls point guard Rajon Rondo is a fan of this tactic.
But have we ever seen the huddle welcome an opponent into the group?
That's what the Georgia Bulldogs did at the 1:39 mark of the second half in Thursday's game against the Auburn Tigers. When Tigers senior guard T.J. Dunans infiltrated Mark Fox's huddle, Bulldogs Juwan Parker and Derek Ogbeide wrapped their arms around him.
The infiltration was successful until a Georgia assistant pointed Dunans out to officials.
It didn't matter in the end, though. Georgia won, 96-84.
[Twitter, h/t CBS Sports]

This Uber driver had the one-star review coming to him.
On Tuesday, ESPN’s Adam Amin tweeted about an awkward encounter he and former Texas coach—and current broadcasting colleague—Mack Brown had with a San Antonio driver:
Mack &amp; I get in an Uber in San Antonio.

Uber driver: "What do you think about the new Texas coach? Cause Mack sure couldn't coach."

Me: 😐
Mack: "He sure couldn't."

Uber driver: *turns around....YOU'RE MACK BROWN."

Mack: "Hey there."
Props to Brown, who won a national championship with the Longhorns at the conclusion of the 2005 season, for being a good sport. He retired in 2013.
Oh, and about the rating? It wasn't a joke:
One star review.
[h/t SB Nation]
s://t.co/2V2JUEfWLb
Phil Jackson and Los Angeles Lakers president and co-owner Jeanie Buss have called off their engagement, the 71-year-old New York Knicks president announced Tuesday night.
The pair got engaged in December 2012. According to ESPN.com’s Darren Rovell and Ramona Shelburne, they had been dating since 1999, when Jackson began coaching the Lakers.
Jackson tweeted out the joint statement just before 11 p.m. ET as the Lakers battled the Utah Jazz in a showdown of young Western Conference squads.
Buss, the 55-year-old daughter of late Lakers owner Jerry Buss, responded with messages bearing similarly positive tones:
Nothing but love and respect for this man. @PhilJackson11 s://t.co/jlgNhnZvOA
The love of my life is the Los Angeles Lakers. I love Phil &amp; will always. It's not fair to him or Lakers to not have my undivided attention

For Taylor Deckard, a 10yo boy battling a severe heart condition, his Christmas wish was to meet @CameronNewton. Today his wish came true. s://t.co/1MNmpdNLk4
Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton played Santa Claus on Tuesday for one young fan.
Per Sports Illustrated, 10-year-old Austin Deckard, a huge Auburn Tigers fan with a severe heart condition called pulmonary hypertension, wanted to meet the reigning NFL MVP.
He got his wish.
When Newton walked into the Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta at Egleston hospital room, the young fella was in awe and smiled at his family. Then he and the star quarterback shared a lengthy, powerful embrace.
Courtney Cooper, Austin’s teacher, posted a Facebook message Dec. 20 about his situation and his desire to meet Newton:
It gained over 3,000 shares and clearly caught the attention of someone close to Newton. She also shared some of Austin's story with WRBL News 3:
According to Larry Gierer of the Charlotte Observer, Austin will have a procedure Wednesday.
[Facebook, Twitter]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook are a deadly pick-and-roll duo.
That was on display Tuesday night against the Miami Heat. With 6:15 to go in the second quarter, the Oklahoma City Thunder took a 47-29 lead when Westbrook tossed a lob to Adams, who hammered a one-handed slam over a helpless Hassan Whiteside.
Adams hung on the rim a bit for good measure.

Sevilla midfielder Samir Nasri was accused of cheating on his ex-girlfriend in a string of now-deleted messages that came from his own Twitter account.
It all started here:
We provided @SamNasri19 a concierge Immunity IV Drip to keep him hydrated &amp; in top health during his busy soccer season with @SevillaFC 💧💯 s://t.co/bfDNeM5vQu
Here’s a look at some of the NSFW posts that followed:
Samir Nasri has A LOT of explaining to do after these DELETED tweets: s://t.co/l6brvdeThb
Nasri’s account began deleting some of the tweets, but whoever was behind the hack kept on coming strong (again, NSFW):
Samir Nasri's twitter tonight... s://t.co/fy1mw6GaTL
I admire that Samir Nasri is refusing to shut his account down, rather attempting to wrestle it back like a TV remote.
Anara Atanes, Nasri's ex-girlfriend, commented on Drip Doctors' Instagram page, leaving fans to connect the dots and suspect it was her behind the Twitter posts:
Told y'all it was Anara behind it. This is a real comment s://t.co/Nx3kFBuxzT


Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey is a numbers guy. His time with the Rockets has been marked by the use of analytics.
Apparently, he’s a theater guy, too.
According to Hunter Atkins of the Houston Chronicle, the veteran GM is combining two of his passions into a musical appropriately titled Small Ball. Morey is collaborating with playwright Mickle Maher.
Here's Atkins:
The premise: The people of Lilliput, a fictional island nation that appears in the 1726 novel "Gulliver's Travels," want to join an international basketball league. But to be competitive enough for that, they import "Michael Jordan," a man who turns out not to be the NBA Hall-of-Famer but happens to have the same name.
While amusing, Morey remains steadfast Small Ball is the real deal. Per Atkins, Morey said the show will debut in Houston within an 18-month timeframe.
"It's definitely happening," he said.
[h/t CBS Sports]
A photo posted by LeBron James (@kingjames)
LeBron James is an executive producer of NBC's new game show The Wall, and the Cleveland Cavaliers superstar gave a sneak preview Friday on Instagram of one family that won $1.3 million.
James delivered the prize himself, along with business manager and friend Maverick Carter.
The family went nuts when it saw the King—even more so when it saw what he brought.
The Wall premieres Jan. 2 on NBC at 10 p.m. ET.
[Instagram]
During a recent SportsCenter "Hang Time" segment on ESPN, New York Knicks star Kristaps Porzingis fulfilled what he called a "childhood dream" by going to Disneyland.
KP spent the day going on rides, strutting around in a Winnie the Pooh hat and watching fireworks.
A few takeaways:
It's only a matter of time before KP returns.
[ESPN]
Lots of smiles and hugs from the Cowboys OL and @EzekielElliott right now. s://t.co/SdK2tCFgxw
Ezekiel Elliott's gifts for his offensive linemen s://t.co/S60ZBxCm24
The Dallas Cowboys offensive line has been good to running back Ezekiel Elliott this season. The former Ohio State stud needs 258 yards to break Eric Dickerson's rookie record of 1,808 yards with two games to go.
On Friday, Elliott repaid the big fellas with custom camouflage John Deere ATVs, which cost $25,000 each, per the Dallas Morning News.
.@EzekielElliott ATV #Cowboys Christmas gift videos 4 - zipping into the Ford Center s://t.co/I7apXELKGL
Keep in mind Zeke is on a rookie contract.
After embracing the running back, members of the O-line took their new toys to the Ford Center field.
The Gators are currently being raced on Ford Center field.
Ezekiel Elliott driving one of his gifts for his O-linemen. Only the Dallas Cowboys s://t.co/ejQDQ5m7jl
Here's Elliott behind the wheel:
The 12-2 Cowboys have clinched a first-round bye and home-field advantage. They take on the Detroit Lions Monday night.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Carmelo Anthony just wants a ring.
In Bleacher Report's parody of the classic A Charlie Brown Christmas, the New York Knicks star discusses his desires with a distracted Kristaps Porzingis and a piano-playing Derrick Rose.
Phil Jackson gets the ol' teacher voice.
Making matters worse for Melo, he watches champions like Kobe Bryant, Shaquille O'Neal and Michael Jordan (the guy with the goat head) grooving at the end.
Good grief.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Eagles Players Beau Allen and Jason Kelce Surprise Local HS with BBQ
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
B/R Introduces New Show 'Delete Your Account' Featuring Deon Buggs and Kenny Mac
No Combine, No Cry: Bob Marley's Grandson Signs NFL Contract with Redskins
The 6-9 Philadelphia Eagles knocked off the 10-5 New York Giants on Thursday night, cementing the 12-2 Dallas Cowboys as NFC East champions.
Rookie stars Dak Prescott and Ezekiel Elliott "unwrapped" the trophy in a parody of this famous Christmas morning video.
The Cowboys also clinched the conference's top record, giving them a first-round bye as well as home-field advantage throughout the NFC playoffs.
That's definitely worth cheering about.
Odell Beckham was growling to himself, losing it outside locker room. Team security &amp; John Mara guided him into locker room eventually s://t.co/ebdB8dH787
Odell Beckham Jr. was heated after his New York Giants fell to the Philadelphia Eagles, 24-19, on Thursday night.
According to Pat Leonard of the New York Daily News, OBJ was "growling to himself, losing it outside [the] locker room" in the aftermath of the loss.
SNY passed along more video, shown below. While Beckham was undoubtedly seething, he didn't lose control. Team security and owner John Mara escorted him back to the locker room:
A distraught @OBJ_3 after the Giants loss in Philly s://t.co/r0P8CMGky5
Beckham racked up 150 yards on 11 catches against the Eagles.
The 10-5 Giants can still clinch a playoff berth this weekend, their first since 2011, and the first of Beckham's three-year career:
Giants can still clinch a playoff berth this weekend with any of the following:

DET loss or tie
GB loss or tie
TB loss or tie
ATL loss

North Dakota, down 11, tried to beat the buzzer. 

Fran McCaffery wasn't a fan, so he had Iowa walk off the court. s://t.co/PLkItzgxq0
During an 84-73 loss to the Iowa Hawkeyes on Tuesday night, the North Dakota Fighting Hawks played until the final buzzer. With time winding down, they stole the ball in the backcourt and tried to score.
Iowa head coach Fran McCaffery didn't like that.
The 57-year-old refused to shake hands with opposing head coach Brian Jones or any of the Fighting Hawks. He instructed his team to do the same as he stormed into the locker room.
Pat Harty of AllHawkeyes.com provided some context:
Fran said he was concerned about what might happen in the handshake line because of how the game ended.
Fran apparently was not pleased with how North Dakota played in the closing seconds, I guess. Probably still should have done the handshake.
Here's McCaffery:
On BTN, Fran McCaffery explains why he left without shaking hands and signaled his team to follow. s://t.co/5CdUBw0jQW
   
Update from Wednesday, Dec. 21
After having time to think about what transpired, McCaffrey was apologetic on Wednesday morning.
"I feel bad about it. I have a lot of respect for Brian Jones," McCaffery told ESPN. "I wish it didn't happen. I wish I shook hands."
--End of Update-- 

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
During the first quarter of the Golden State Warriors' bout with the Utah Jazz on Tuesday night, Dubs big man JaVale McGee went coast to coast.
He passed Joe Ingles with a smooth behind-the-back move at midcourt and surged toward the hoop.
You know what happened next.
McGee botched the layup (though Ingles' defense shouldn't be overlooked) and earned himself yet another appearance on Shaqtin' A Fool.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Who says the King isn't clutch?
With less than 30 seconds to go and his Cleveland Cavaliers trailing the Milwaukee Bucks 108-107 in overtime Tuesday night, LeBron James buried a three-pointer from way﻿ downtown.
The Cavs held on to win 114-108. James finished with 34 points, 12 boards and seven assists.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
Miami Heat shooting guard Tyler Johnson got paid over the summer.
This is why.
Early in the fourth quarter against the Orlando Magic on Tuesday night, the 24-year-old went backdoor on Elfrid Payton and sprung to the rim for a massive left-handed throwdown.
Midway through a second overtime period, Johnson had 25 points on 10-of-16 shooting.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Carmelo Anthony had himself a monster third quarter Tuesday night against the Indiana Pacers.
The New York Knicks forward finished the period with 15 points, and arguably his best highlight came on a step-back jumper after he dropped Thaddeus Young with a crossover.
Four-and-a-half minutes later, with 1.7 seconds to go, Anthony drilled a contested three-pointer over Young to cut the Pacers' lead to 87-84 heading into the fourth.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Anthony finished with 35 points on 13-of-25 shooting, including 7-of-11 from downtown, and the Knicks won, 118-111.
Malcolm Brogdon got buckets on Uncle Drew on Tuesday night.
With less than 2:00 to play in the first quarter, the Milwaukee Bucks rookie guard drove hard to the hoop with Cleveland Cavaliers star Kyrie Irving on his hip.
The Virginia product shielded the ball as he flew to the rim before finishing the one-handed slam over Irving. Brogdon cut Cleveland's lead to 30-21.
Update: 10:05 p.m. ET Tuesday, Dec. 20
Two quarters later, Brogdon dunked all over another superstar.
This time, it was...wait for it...LeBron James.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
[Vine]
Lakers announce that a statue of Shaq will be unveiled at Star Plaza outside Staples Center prior to the Lakers game on March 24, 2017. s://t.co/4tZxNOp1Py
Add another nickname to Shaquille O'Neal's catalog: The Big Statue.
Before the Los Angeles Lakers host the Minnesota Timberwolves on March 24, the team will unveil a nine-foot, 1,200-pound bronze statue of the legendary center throwing down a two-handed dunk.
Best of all, it'll be suspended 10 feet above the ground.
The unveiling ceremony will feature a speech from O'Neal and some former teammates. It will be free for the public to attend.

Congrats to #FanFriday winner @YungYle! See you at #NYGvsPHI. #FlyEaglesFly s://t.co/12z1giETUU
Philadelphia Eagles fan @YungYle is gaming the system.
As noted by Rich Hofmann of Philly Voice, the Eagles run a contest for free tickets prior to every home game. The goal is to find Swoop, the team's mascot, and be the first to high-five him.
Since the 2014 playoffs, @YungYle has won 12 times. Per Steven Ruiz of For The Win, @YungYle has won five of seven contests in 2016.
This week, in a shocking turn of events, he won. Again.
A few other examples:
3rd time's the charm! Congrats to loyal #FanFriday follower @YungYle on finally winning tix, thanks to @CSNPhilly. ://t.co/Os7wOvpL7d
Congrats to #FanFriday die-hard @YungYle on winning this week's #MIAvsPHI tickets from @CSNPhilly! s://t.co/jm1bydoWHV
Congrats to #FanFriday winner @YungYle! We'll see you at the game on Monday night. s://t.co/ELqpXDeH4b
Octagon Digital's Katie Tang called this guy the "most determined fan ever":
Met @YungYle a couple times during this promo. Most determined fan ever. Takes "History is made by those who show up" to a new level. s://t.co/elIy8AGaVv
Is he cheating? Nope—he says it's just dedication:
They hate me cause they ain't me !!! #MAYBEIFTHEYWEREDIEHARDFANS #THEYWOULDWIN #LIKEME #FlyEaglesFly s://t.co/WAFnZ6fHia
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
On Thursday, New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady hid three pairs of signed Uggs around Boston.
One fan went all-out to find 'em, but he came up empty-handed and, even worse, empty-mouthed. The poor guy lost a tooth and commented on Brady’s post:
The quarterback caught wind of the fan's experience and offered a free pair. All the guy had to do was email a picture of himself to "uggs4toothlessluke@gmail.com."
He did:
Brady and the Patriots travel to Denver to take on the Broncos on Sunday at 4:25 p.m. ET.
[Facebook]

Los Angeles Rams running back Todd Gurley was a consensus first-round pick in fantasy football drafts this summer.
He's been a bust.
After finishing as last year's No. 5 rusher, despite only getting serious action four weeks in, the 22-year-old former Georgia Bulldog ranks 19th in fantasy production, per FF Today.
That's fine for an RB2, but Gurley was drafted to be a superstar.
In Thursday night's 24-3 loss to the Seattle Seahawks, which marked the semifinals in most fantasy leagues, Gurley rushed 14 times for 38 yards. One Twitter user was so frustrated that he challenged Gurley to a fight:
@TG3II if I ever see you in public we're fist fighting over your fantasy football performance this year
The running back countered:
Pull up then. s://t.co/EmZBhVvZk0
The mic-drop line came from the heckler, though:
Been waiting on you in the end zone. Where you at? s://t.co/LoeqGavYDJ

"There will never be another one."

Well said, Shaq. Well said. #SagerStrong s://t.co/1fY84T6vlZ
Following the death of Turner Sports broadcaster Craig Sager on Thursday, the NBA on TNT crew took some time to reflect on the beloved sideline reporter.
Kenny "The Jet" Smith talked about how Sager put his profession on the map.
"Craig gave it a name," Smith said. "He really did almost like what Dennis Rodman did for rebounding."
Chris Webber shared a story from his playing days, and TNT played a video of Sager's interaction with a young Shaquille O'Neal.
Shaq, after comparing Sager's relationship with NBA stars to Howard Cosell's bond with Muhammad Ali, talked about his legacy.
"I will say this for the rest of my life about Craig Sager: There will never be another one," Shaq said.

In the third quarter of Tuesday's matchup against the Phoenix Suns, New York Knicks big man Kristaps Porzingis got into an altercation with Marquese Chriss.
A quarter later, KP soared past the rookie for a one-handed slam off a lob from Justin Holiday.
The 7'3" forward's dunk gave the Knicks a 90-89 lead with 6:29 to go.
[Vine]
Porzingis wasn't having it 😳 s://t.co/icZGq081O8
Early in the third quarter against the New York Knicks on Tuesday night, Phoenix Suns rookie Marquese Chriss threw Kristaps Porzingis to the floor.
KP was not having it.
The 7'3" Latvian big man popped up and shoved Chriss before players from both sides separated the two. Joakim Noah restrained Porzingis with a bear hug.
Chriss was given a flagrant-1, while Porzingis, Brandon Jennings and Eric Bledsoe were all given technicals.

With less than 40 seconds to play and the Golden State Warriors leading his New Orleans Pelicans 111-108 on Tuesday night, Anthony Davis rolled to the hoop and caught a pass in stride from Jrue Holiday.
The Brow appeared poised to cut the lead to one.
Kevin Durant had other plans.
Golden State's newest superstar soared in to swat Davis' shot before hitting the deck. Golden State won 113-109.
[Vine]
Here's a list of NBA players who could make this two-handed, no-look bounce pass from the midcourt logo:
1. LeBron James.
List over.
The King zipped the impressive dime to Kevin Love in the fourth quarter of the Cleveland Cavaliers' victory over the Memphis Grizzlies on Tuesday night.
Love posted 29 points and 13 boards in the 103-86 victory, and James added 23 points and eight assists.
[Vine]
Did you catch the Wright State Raiders' 85-34 demolition of the Urbana Blue Knights on Tuesday night?
You should've.
Late in the first half, Raiders senior forward Steven Davis took flight on Blue Knights junior Dalton Payton. Davis used Payton as a launching pad before hammering home an angry one-handed dunk.
Davis finished with a game-high 26 points.
[Vine]

Aim high, Alex Martins.
Over the weekend, the 52-year-old Orlando Magic CEO promised fans the team will hoist some hardware in the next 14 years. Here's what he told Brian Schmitz of the Orlando Sentinel:
"I certainly believe by 2030 we will have won at least one championship. And I say 'at least.' I firmly believe we're going to get there, and once you get there, you got the kind of team that hopefully can come back."
Kidding aside, the Sentinel has covered other 2030-themed topics, so Martins' comments didn't come out of thin air.
It's still a peculiar quote, though.
[h/t Yahoo Sports]
Carolina Panthers running back Jonathan Stewart often runs like a bowling ball.
On Sunday, that description became literal.
Midway through the second quarter, the 29-year-old took a 1st-and-10 handoff from Cam Newton. As he rumbled toward the first-down marker, J-Stew did a full-fledged somersault over San Diego Chargers safety Jahleel Addae.
Stewart popped right up and chugged for another 10 yards.   
The Tennessee Titans and Denver Broncos brawled during the second quarter of Sunday's game.
It started when Titans wide receiver Harry Douglas dove at Broncos cornerback Chris Harris Jr.'s leg. Harris went down in pain, and Aqib Talib went after Douglas.
The Broncos and Titans are fighting for their playoff lives! # s://t.co/HhNPLbgPe5
Once the dust settled, Harris returned to the game. Douglas wasn't flagged for the hit, but Talib was called for a personal foul. Cameron Wolfe of the Denver Post thinks a fine is coming Douglas' way, though:
Harry Douglas should expect a healthy fine on that low hit on Chris Harris. Every look at the replay it's more dirty.
Tennessee led 13-0 at halftime.
Update: 5:10 p.m. ET Sunday, Dec. 11
Harris addressed the hit after the game:
Chris Harris Jr. on Harry Douglas: "That was so illegal. I've never had someone try to end my career like that."
---End of update---
[Vine, Twitter]
You almost had him, Ryan Tannehill.
In the second quarter of Sunday's home contest against the Arizona Cardinals, the Miami Dolphins quarterback attempted to throw a screen pass to Jarvis Landry. The ball squirted away from Tannehill as he threw it, resulting in a dreadful backward pass that became a fumble.
Three Arizona defenders swarmed to the ball but were unable to recover it. The Dolphins lost 21 yards on the play.
[Vine]
The Cleveland Browns, while terrible, are fun.
During the second quarter of Sunday's clash with the Cincinnati Bengals, Browns head coach Hue Jackson called a flea-flicker with his team backed up near its own end zone.
After receiving the pitch from running back Duke Johnson Jr., Robert Griffin III dialed up a pass for wide receiver Terrelle Pryor—who was in triple coverage. The ball was picked off by George Iloka.
That led to a five-yard touchdown pass from Andy Dalton to tight end Tyler Eifert—their second hookup of the afternoon.

J.J. Nelson is kind of fast.
During the first quarter against the Miami Dolphins on Sunday, the Arizona Cardinals wide receiver took a handoff from Carson Palmer 56 yards to the house.
The slender second-year man blazed right through the Miami defense, which bought a fake to running back David Johnson.
Here's the full play:
Around the corner... and he's GONE!  s://t.co/BuDRvbtKHc
Chandler Catanzaro missed the ensuing extra point, so the Dolphins maintained a 7-6 lead.
[Vine]
Opposing players love paying homage to the Cleveland Cavaliers after scoring against the Cleveland Browns.
Two weeks ago, New York Giants star Odell Beckham Jr. mimicked LeBron James' "The Silencer." On Sunday, Cincinnati Bengals running back Jeremy Hill copied J.R. Smith's three-point celebration.
Hill gave the Bengals a 13-0 lead with the one-yard plunge.
Update: 3:20 p.m. ET Sunday, Dec. 11
Smith took notice of Hill's celebration and posted a comparison of the two. He captioned the photo "Respect!"
A photo posted by JR Smith (@teamswish)
---End of update---

A photo posted by Von Miller (@vonmiller)
Before Sunday's game against the Tennessee Titans, Denver Broncos linebacker Von Miller showed off a pair of "rooster cleats."
They look exactly like they sound—orange, brown and white feathers line the top of the gray Adidas kicks.
A photo posted by Von Miller (@vonmiller)
Last month, Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton wore a pair of zebra cleats with tails on the backs.
Which animal will the fashionable stars debut next?
[Instagram, Twitter]
A photo posted by Johnny Manziel (@jmanziel2)
Louisville quarterback Lamar Jackson won the Heisman Trophy on Saturday night.
After the ceremony, he hung out with former NFL quarterback and Heisman winner Johnny Manziel.
A photo posted by Johnny Manziel (@jmanziel2)
Earlier in the night, a photo of Johnny Football and Tim Tebow standing together on stage went viral:
We need a reality tv show where Tim Tebow and Johnny Manziel live together s://t.co/FJObo1F4Bk
On Dec. 2, Manziel agreed to a plea deal with Dallas prosecutors that resulted in the dismissal of his domestic violence case. Per USA Today’s A.J. Perez, Manziel will avoid jail time and undergo counseling.
[Instagram, Twitter]
WWE superstar John Cena hosted this week's episode of Saturday Night Live, and one of his best bits was a Rob Gronkowski impression.
Cena spoofed the New England Patriots tight end's dude-like mannerisms and party habits (including his infamous cruise) in a skit about an athlete game show titled Where'd Your Money Go?
Kenan Thompson portrayed Charles Barkley as the host of the show, which also featured Alex Moffat as Conor McGregor and Bobby Moynihan as John Daly.
But Cena stole the show as Gronk.
[YouTube]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
2018 Wide Receivers Set to End Heisman Drought
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Oklahoma Sooners stars Baker Mayfield and Dede Westbrook are both finalists for the 2016 Heisman Trophy, which will be awarded Saturday night.
But above all else, they're just teammates.
During one of Westbrook's interviews Friday, his quarterback gave him a wet willy. The wide receiver finished his answer before wiping his ear and laughing.       
After game, Steph Curry took sneakers off &amp; signed for little kid. Someone tried to steal, but kid got them. Steph barefoot to lockerroom.☺️ s://t.co/Z97iyRaCOL
After dropping 26 points in Thursday's 106-99 win over the Utah Jazz, Golden State Warriors superstar Stephen Curry signed a pair of sneakers for a young fan.
The two-time reigning MVP handed the kicks to a security guard to pass along, but two grown men tried to swipe them from the kid.
More security intervened, and the young fan—who was, of course, wearing a No. 30 jersey—got them back. The little guy, once he finally received the Under Armours, was pumped.
Meanwhile, according to sideline reporter Rosalyn Gold-Onwude, Curry walked to the locker room barefoot.

Draymond Green on his late laugh with KD:"We was laughing that Quin Snyder kept calling timeouts. Like bro, you down 10 with 6 seconds left" s://t.co/U4rOqFjKIz
With less than 10 seconds left in the Golden State Warriors' 106-99 victory over the Utah Jazz on Thursday night, Kevin Durant was slapped with a technical foul.
While Joe Ingles knocked down the ensuing free throw, cutting the score to 105-98, KD shared a laugh with Draymond Green.
Warriors up 8 with 9.3 seconds remaining, and Draymond is enjoying a laugh with Durant s://t.co/wk5ZYja1BM
The reason? Jazz coach Quin Snyder's late timeout.
"It's kind of over, my man," Green told reporters. "Let's go to the restaurant, have a good dinner and just chill. That's what we were laughing at."
Snyder called a timeout following the free throws, but that was after Green and KD were laughing. Before that, he requested a timeout with 49.4 seconds left and Utah down 104-94.
Durant told the media that the technical was "stupid" on his end:
Kevin Durant called his late technical 'stupid': "I can't talk to him. If I do, I get a $2,000 tech" s://t.co/UzW4ucts7B

Gregg Popovich with a great response when asked it was his fault his players weren't motivated to play tonight s://t.co/jdIUHB34Eh
Gregg Popovich has mastered the art of the subtle tirade.
After his San Antonio Spurs fell to the Chicago Bulls 95-91 on Thursday night, the 67-year-old head coach went on a rant about being ready to play.
Here's what Pop told reporters when asked if his team's lack of readiness fell on him:
Guys get a lot of money to be ready to play. No Knute Rockne speeches. It's your job. If you're a plumber and you don't do your job, you don't get any work. I don't think the plumber needs a pep talk. If a doctor botches operations, he's not a doctor anymore. If you're a basketball player, you come ready. It's called maturity. It's your job.
Thursday marked the 18-5 Spurs' first road loss of the season. They entered the contest 13-0.
San Antonio gets the Brooklyn Nets at home Saturday.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
2018 Wide Receivers Set to End Heisman Drought
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
On Saturday, one of college football's biggest stars will join its most elite fraternity: the Heisman Trophy winners.
Candidates for this year's award are Jabrill Peppers (linebacker, Michigan), Baker Mayfield (quarterback, Oklahoma), Dede Westbrook (wide receiver, Oklahoma), Deshaun Watson (quarterback, Clemson) and Lamar Jackson (quarterback, Louisville).
While Jackson enters as the clear favorite, the award would be in good hands with any of these guys.
The presentation begins Saturday at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN.
Kevin Garnett forgets to hit the cuss button and curses on live TV lmao s://t.co/AK6Yh7Yn0y
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
When Kevin Garnett joined the Inside the NBA crew in early November, he and fellow former big man Rasheed Wallace showed off their "Cuss Button."
On Thursday night, the Big Ticket forgot to use it.
After the gang razzed him about being too old to wear tight jeans, Garnett responded, "Ain't too old to do s--t, homie."
Ernie Johnson, Shaquille O'Neal, Charles Barkley and Kenny "The Jet" Smith doubled over in laughter. E.J. added, "We gotta fix that thing."

Midway through the second quarter Tuesday night, New York Knicks guard Justin Holiday tried to derail a dunk attempt by Miami Heat center Hassan Whiteside.
It didn't work.
Whiteside tested the rim's strength with a monster slam despite contact. After the whistle, the big fella stared at Holiday in disbelief.
[Vine]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Marcin Gortat has had better possessions.
During the first quarter Tuesday against the Orlando Magic, the Washington Wizards big man fell, received a pass from John Wall, dished to Otto Porter Jr., got the ball back and was blocked by Bismack Biyombo.
Then, Gortat went down again.
The big fella smiled as he jogged back to the defensive end of the floor.
In the opening minutes of Tuesday's game against the Purdue Boilermakers, Arizona State Sun Devils forward Obinna Oleka threw down a punishing one-handed slam.
The senior caught a lob pass from junior Shannon Evans II and finished it over Purdue's P.J. Thompson to tie the game at two.
Talk about a strong start.
[Vine]

You know it's a superteam when Brian Cashman says so.
After the American League East rival Boston Red Sox traded for left-handed pitcher Chris Sale on Tuesday, the New York Yankees general manager likened them to the NBA's Golden State Warriors, per Erik Boland of Newsday:
Cashman on Chris Sale trade: "that's a wow...Boston's like the Golden State Warriors now of baseball."
Full Cashman quote: "Boston’s like the Golden State Warriors now in baseball. They got their Durant and their Green and Thompson and Curry."
Adding Sale to a rotation that includes Rick Porcello and David Price, each with a Cy Young Award in the past five years, is definitely an all-in move.
[Twitter, h/t Sports Illustrated]
lol s://t.co/fw1kUoetBj
The Detroit Lions defeated the New Orleans Saints, 28-13, on Sunday.
Afterward, they let their doubters hear about it.
The Lions’ Twitter account trolled 10 ESPN analysts who picked the Saints to win and then gave Pro Football Focus the same treatment:
.@PFF_Gordon 👌 s://t.co/INHnX8pmOT
Detroit, now 8-4 on the year, takes on the 3-9 Chicago Bears next week.

Matt Ryan goes for 2. Eric Berry has other plans s://t.co/taPMPLeqaz
Talk about a roller-coaster ride for the Atlanta Falcons.
After scoring what should’ve been a go-ahead touchdown late in the fourth quarter against the Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday, Dan Quinn opted to go for two. A conversion would’ve put the Falcons up a field goal, 30-27, with 4:32 to go.
Instead, Chiefs safety Eric Berry gave his team the lead.
Berry picked off Matt Ryan and visited the end zone for the second time, giving his team a 29-28 lead. He returned an interception for a touchdown in the second quarter:
Eric Berry makes the 🏠📞 in his hometown of ATL, and then delivers the ball to his Mom. s://t.co/Qohxf7pxjY
The Chiefs held on to win, 29-28, thanks to Berry's eight total points.
Eric Berry has outscored the…
Dolphins
Texans
49ers
Rams

Ok @TheRea1DJones, this is just getting RIDICULOUS!

Another night, another FLIGHT for the @Suns rookie with @nazsuns.... s://t.co/4joG9BK75D
Derrick Jones Jr. has played only one game for the Phoenix Suns this year, but the rookie is making his mark in the NBA Development League.
On Saturday, the 19-year-old from UNLV threw down an epic one-handed alley-oop poster dunk.
Adding to the highlight, Jones was fouled on the play.
This is the same guy who flushed home a windmill alley-oop less than a week ago:
Jones has been doing this for some time now. Here's hoping he gets a shot at the NBA Slam Dunk Contest one day.
[Twitter, Vine]
Has there been a more perfect embodiment of the Los Angeles Rams' season?
During Sunday’s game against the New England Patriots, head coach Jeff Fisher tried to challenge a play. One problem—he couldn’t find that pesky red flag.
As ESPN’s Field Yates noted, Fisher actually had to verbally request the review:
Jeff Fisher just tried to challenge a play but literally couldn't find his challenge flag. Had to verbally ask the official.
Could the flag have been stolen?
Jeff Fisher. Trying to challenge. Can't find his red flag. Maybe Danny Woodhead has it. Maybe Eric Dickerson has it.

Update: Per ESPN's Alden Gonzalez, even Fisher found humor in the incident: 
"So when I walked up to the official, I said, 'I want to review the catch. I think it's a catch.' And he goes, 'Well, where's your flag?' I said, 'It's right here. I can feel it, but I can't find it.' And he goes, 'Well, you need the flag.'"
"It was hilarious," Fisher said. "It was just one of those funny moments on the sideline."
[Twitter, Vine]
Sunday’s contest between the Green Bay Packers and Houston Texans featured a fair amount of snow, so Randall Cobb did the right thing after snagging a touchdown pass from Aaron Rodgers.
He made a snow angel.
Cobb’s score came from nine yards out with 8:10 to go in the second quarter:
Rodgers to @rcobb18 for 6! #GoPackGo s://t.co/nJAqlklGgD
After an extra point from Mason Crosby, the Packers took a 7-0 lead.

Baltimore Ravens free safety Lardarius Webb put his body on the line Sunday to make this second-quarter interception against the Miami Dolphins.
Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill lofted a would-be touchdown pass for DeVante Parker, but the 31-year-old defensive back flew in to pick it off.
Here’s another angle. Webb came out of nowhere:
Nice interception. #Ravens s://t.co/uvBrqFDXV3

When you make catches like this, you can be as cocky as you want.
On 2nd-and-2 early in the second quarter against the New Orleans Saints on Sunday, Detroit Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford floated up a bomb down the sideline for wide receiver Golden Tate.
With cornerback Delvin Breaux draped all over him, the 28-year-old somehow corralled the pass and picked up 35 yards.
Then, in classic Tate fashion, he strutted his stuff.
Golden Tate just looks outrageously pleased with himself after every catch.

Dorial Green-Beckham is wearing Yeezy cleats today for, in his words, the "Yeezy Foundation." Talk about #CleatsForACause s://t.co/iRYxysJavT
On Sunday, players across the NFL will honor a cause of their choice with their cleats.
Arizona Cardinals running back David Johnson is fighting against bullying, for example. Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Antonio Brown is supporting a youth-mentoring program. Atlanta Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan will honor Children's Healthcare of Atlanta.
Matt Ryan's 🔥 cleats for today's game in honor of Children's Healthcare of Atlanta #MyCauseMyCleats s://t.co/hs1flRZmaf
The entire #MyCauseMyCleats campaign is all positive stuff.
Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver Dorial Green-Beckham, however, took a more questionable approach.
According to Eliot Shorr-Parks of NJ.com, DGB will be wearing Yeezy cleats for the "Yeezy Foundation." 

Philadelphia 76ers rookie Dario Saric hit Boston Celtics forward Jonas Jerebko with a lethal behind-the-back crossover Saturday night.
Jerebko wound up on the floor, and Saric buried the jumper for good measure.
Joel Embiid provided his analysis on Instagram:
JOJO STRIKES AGAIN s://t.co/fSsyvLPL1k
Philadelphia lost, 107-106, though Saric finished with 21 points, 12 rebounds and two assists on 7-of-12 shooting in 27 minutes.
[Twitter, Vine]
JaVale McGee remains the @shaqtin MVP 😂 s://t.co/sUYxTICwRM
JaVale McGee is the only NBA player to win two Shaqtin' a Fool MVP awards.
It seems a third is imminent.
In the second half of Saturday night's 138-109 win over the Phoenix Suns, the Golden State Warriors' big man tried to inbound the ball after Ian Clark, his teammate, made a free throw.
McGee quickly recognized his brain fart and ran down the court smiling with his finger in the air. It's a good thing he found it amusing, because the Warriors bench was doubled over in laughter.
After the game, McGee got his teammates on camera laughing about the play:
Damn guys can y'all wait until y'all take y'all jerseys off before y'all watch me take the ball out for the opposite team? 😂😂😂😂🙈 s://t.co/kBsjTHtnpw

A photo posted by UNINTERRUPTED (@uninterrupted)
When the Cleveland Indians lost to the Chicago Cubs in the World Series last month, LeBron James lost too.
The King and fellow NBA superstar Dwyane Wade, a native of Chi-town, had a wager on the series. The stakes were simple: Whoever's team lost had to wear the winner's uniform.
The #WorldSeries bet is on! @DwyaneWade (@Cubs) sends @KingJames (@Indians) the official wager. s://t.co/h71F22FqJA
So on Friday night, James will enter the United Center for the Cleveland Cavaliers' game against the Bulls wearing a full Cubs uniform.
Leading up to tipoff, Uninterrupted has released Claymation videos that playfully tease LBJ:
As @KingJames prepares to honor his bet payoff to @DwyaneWade, let’s revisit a pivotal moment in the wager between the two hometown heroes. s://t.co/njLWMXLeAn
Wade reposted one of himself announcing James' arrival like it's a fashion show:
"Look at the socks, people."
[Instagram, Twitter]
The Lamar Jackson Heisman Trophy ticket that's worth $10,000 if he wins sold for $8,500 tonight on @PropSwapVegas. s://t.co/RupjVJ134a
Before the start of the college football season, one fan put $100 on Louisville quarterback Lamar Jackson to win the Heisman Trophy.
It was a wise bet. Jackson entered the season as a +5000 underdog, but as of Nov. 14, he was the overwhelming favorite at -5000, according to OddsShark.
The ACC Player of the Year has scored five-plus total touchdowns in five different games this year.
On Friday, the fan sold the ticket for $8,500. If Jackson wins, the ticket is worth $10,100.
[Twitter, h/t theScore]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
The Dream Quarterback-Wide Receiver Duos in 2018 Recruiting Class
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
The No. 4 Washington Huskies and No. 9 Colorado Buffaloes are not perennial powerhouses like Stanford or Oregon.
But on the strength of the best season for both in 15 years, they meet in the Pac-12 Championship Game on Friday night.
Washington (North) and Colorado (South) will duke it out at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, California.
Kickoff is at 9 p.m. ET.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
In the first half of Thursday's 113-94 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers, Cleveland Cavaliers legend LeBron James threw down an epic windmill jam.
Here's The King's actual dunk:
The edit above might be a more accurate representation of the slam's impact, as its force sent fellow All-Star Chris Paul flying backward.
James finished with 16 points, five assists, five rebounds and five turnovers.
[Vine]
A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
The Force was with the Dallas Cowboys on Thursday night.
Led by their rookie superstars, running back Ezekiel Elliott and quarterback Dak Prescott, America’s team became the Galaxy’s team with Star Wars treatment following the 17-15 win.
Next up is a Sunday night road showdown with the New York Giants, the only team to defeat the 11-1 Cowboys this season.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
When players 6'10" and taller square off against one another, ankles are rarely broken.
Milwaukee Bucks rookie Thon Maker changed that narrative Tuesday night against the Cleveland Cavaliers.
With the Deer cruising to a victory late in the fourth quarter, the 7'1" power forward hit Chris Andersen with a step-back jumper that sent Birdman to the floor.
Maker buried it.
Milwaukee won 118-101.
[Vine]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Add this to the J.R. Smith Hall of Fame.
Following a first-half timeout during Tuesday's game against the Milwaukee Bucks, the Cleveland Cavaliers shooting guard briefly stepped off the floor to hug Jason Terry.
It's unclear if the Jet was pulling a fast one on Smith, but Tony Snell—Smith's man—cut to the basket for an uncontested dunk.
Expect to see this on Shaqtin' A Fool.
UPDATE: 11:40 p.m. ET Tuesday, Nov. 29
Smith talked about the play after Cleveland's 118-101 loss, per Jason Lloyd of the Akron Beacon Journal:
Ladies and gentlemen, J.R. Smith s://t.co/SXFjZv8z6A
Only J.R.
---End of update---
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
At 39, Paul Pierce isn't what he used to be.
After blowing an open and-1 dunk Tuesday night against the Brooklyn Nets, his former team, the Los Angeles Clippers veteran was given a few joking chest compressions by Chris Paul.
Pierce played along before sinking both free throws. Los Angeles led 65-53 at the half.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
We might have to replace "Cardiac Kemba" with "Crossover Kemba."
Late in the first half of Tuesday's game against the Detroit Pistons, the Charlotte Hornets point guard sent Ish Smith to the floor with a step-back crossover before he nailed a three-pointer to tie the game at 46.
Just after Smith got back to his feet, the ball found the net.
Cold.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Sometimes, a violation like the one committed by Brooklyn Nets guard Bojan Bogdanovic on Tuesday is too blatant.
After picking up his dribble at the top of the key, Bogdanovic got harassed by Los Angeles Clippers guard J.J. Redick. Then, he decided to take another bounce—just one!—before passing.
The referees, perhaps in a state of disbelief, failed to whistle the violation.
[Vine]

Boston Celtics center Al Horford missed Monday's 112-104 win over the Miami Heat for the birth of his daughter.
CSNNE's Mike Felger wasn't a fan of the move.
During the postgame show, Felger argued that Horford, who was in Atlanta, should've taken a private jet to Florida, then returned to his wife and newborn after the game.
"If there were complications, then OK, take that all off the table," he said. "If the mother or the child or something happened where there were complications, then I totally understand. But if it's just a generic child birth? Play the game."
You can watch the whole segment here:
Horford's sister, Anna, went after Felger on Twitter (warning: NSFW language):
Yeah, Mike Felger can fuck right off ☺️👍🏽 s://t.co/J7fsIHhMbt
Tell him to @ me s://t.co/c2eqJgJJG8
Apparently a lot of you guys dislike Mike Felger 😂 Look at us all bonding over unlikeable people 😍
The four-time All-Star addressed the situation Tuesday:
Here's why @celtics Al @Al_Horford decided to be w/his wife for the birth of their 2nd child rather than play in Game 17 of an 82-game sked. s://t.co/4fmkgAY51u
Horford is not expected to miss any more time, per Jay King of MassLive.com.
[Twitter, h/t SI.com]
In Baltimore, foul that occurs in the field of play by offense doesn't extend the period. If foul was in end zone &amp; created safety, it would
The Baltimore Ravens ended Sunday's win over the Cincinnati Bengals in peculiar fashion.
On 4th-and-8 from their own 23-yard line with 11 seconds left, the Ravens preserved their 19-12 lead by having punter Sam Koch hold on to the ball until time expired. Then, he stepped out of bounds in the back of the end zone for a safety.
While Koch milked the clock, Baltimore did whatever it could to stave off the Bengals—which included drawing a fair amount of holding penalties.
Because the play ended in a safety, though, that was it. The game was over.
Former NFL vice president of officiating Mike Pereira explained:
The Ravens won 19-14.

Using a trick play against Jeff Fisher is like running the triangle against Phil Jackson.
New Orleans Saints head coach Sean Payton fired one up against the Los Angeles Rams on Sunday, as wide receiver Willie Snead took a screen from Drew Brees before launching a bomb to running back Tim Hightower, who had one man to beat.
He beat ‘em.
Hightower converted the 50-yard touchdown, giving New Orleans a 49-21 lead after a successful Wil Lutz extra point in the fourth quarter. 
After what would've been a monster punt-return touchdown against the Cleveland Browns on Sunday, Odell Beckham Jr. paid homage to his friend LeBron James.
OBJ mimicked James' chalk toss as well as "The Silencer" in the end zone.
But it was all for naught. The touchdown was called back on a holding penalty, and Browns punter Britton Colquitt celebrated as if he scored.
Beckham scored earlier in the game on a 32-yard catch-and-run. The Giants led 20-6 with less than 11 minutes to go in the fourth quarter.
Update: 4 p.m. ET Sunday, Nov. 27
Beckham scored later in the fourth, so he broke out the LeBron celebration once more:
[Twitter, Vine]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
After converting a first-quarter and-1 against Cleveland Cavaliers veteran Richard Jefferson on Sunday, Philadelphia 76ers rookie Joel Embiid got cocky.
The 36-year-old didn't care for The Process' barking and went back at him. Officials and teammates, including LeBron James, had to step between the two.
Perhaps sparked by their big man, the Sixers led 58-52 at halftime.
Cincinnati Bengals villain linebacker Vontaze Burfict pulled a fast one Sunday.
After roughing up Baltimore Ravens wide receiver Steve Smith Sr., Burfict blatantly flopped after the slightest bit of contact from the 37-year-old.
It worked.
Smith was flagged 15 yards for unnecessary roughness on the third-down play, but Justin Tucker still came on to nail a 52-yard field goal and give the Ravens a 10-0 lead.
[Vine]
The Arizona Cardinals have had a lot of question marks at wide receiver this season, but Larry Fitzgerald remains as sure-handed as ever.
On 3rd-and-2 in the first quarter against the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday, the veteran picked up 17 yards with an impressive one-handed snag.
Arizona scored four plays later on a one-yard catch by tight end Jermaine Gresham.
[Streamable]
DeAndre Hopkins is having a down year for the Houston Texans, but the wide receiver still has unreal hands.
Hopkins showed 'em off in the first quarter against the San Diego Chargers on Sunday.
Quarterback Brock Osweiler connected with the 24-year-old for a juggling 19-yard pickup, and Hopkins then celebrated the first down. 
Now this is range.
Back in September, Australian trick-shot group How Ridiculous broke the Guinness World Record with a 593-foot shot off a dam in Switzerland. The video was first posted Nov. 20.
Shockingly, the feat took only three attempts (33.3 percent). Andre Drummond shot 35.5 percent from the foul line last season.
As For The Win's Alysha Tsuji noted, this is the fourth time How Ridiculous has broken the record since 2011. With its latest basket, it took the honor from Dude Perfect.
[YouTube, h/t For The Win]
Awesome surprise on Senior Day for Lawrence Erekosima from his mother! #RollTide s://t.co/nHns9VMLT9
For a walk-on, this senior day wasn’t too bad.
Before the No. 1 Alabama Crimson Tide defeated the Auburn Tigers 30-12 on Saturday, running back Lawrence Erekosima posed for a picture with his family and head coach Nick Saban.
It was then that Erekosima was surprised by his mother, who was returning from a military tour in Kuwait.
After the game, the usually numb Saban talked about getting emotional during that moment:
[Twitter, YouTube]
After missing the Carolina Panthers' Week 5 loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers with a concussion, quarterback Cam Newton returned to form Sunday.
With about three minutes to go in Sunday’s shootout against the New Orleans Saints, the reigning MVP faked a handoff to Jonathan Stewart and took off for the end zone.
Newton crossed the plane and then proceeded to convert a two-point try, tying the game at 38. His heroics weren't enough to notch the victory, however, as the Saints won, 41-38, sending Carolina to 1-5 on the year.
Odell Beckham Jr. is having fun again.
With 1:24 to go and the New York Giants trailing the Baltimore Ravens 23-20 on Sunday, the third-year receiver took a slant 66 yards to the house.
Then he went nuts.
Beckham, who was flagged for taunting, “proposed” to the kicking net following his second touchdown of the day. After his first, the 23-year-old decided to lay under it.
 One of Beckham's former teammates, Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback Prince Amukamara, was quick to congratulate the happy couple:
She said yes!!! 😱😱💍💍💍 congrats @OBJ_3 #nettiebeckham s://t.co/UtJOSkj7zb
The touchdown dash put OBJ at 222 yards on eight catches. New York held on to win, 27-23.  
Golden Tate has had a disappointing year.
Until Sunday.
The Detroit Lions wide receiver broke out for a cathartic 165 yards and a touchdown on eight catches against the Los Angeles Rams on Sunday. He celebrated his fourth-quarter score by taking pompoms from a cheerleader and doing a dance.
Tate had good reason to party, as his 23-yard touchdown helped Detroit tie L.A. at 28 with about six minutes left. The Lions would go on to win 31-28.

Odell Beckham Jr. took his relationship with the New York Giants’ kicking net to another level on Sunday.
Three weeks ago, OBJ brawled with the net. Last week, he embraced it.
Following a 75-yard touchdown against the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday, he laid inside of it.
Beckham’s score gave Big Blue a 17-13 lead over Baltimore.
[Streamable, Vine]
Cam Newton took a shot, but he finished the job.
With 6:56 left in the third quarter of Sunday’s contest against the New Orleans Saints, the Carolina Panthers quarterback threw a leaping, flailing touchdown to tight end Ed Dickson.
Few (if any) other quarterbacks could make that play.
Newton’s highlight cut the Saints’ lead to 24-17.

Los Angeles Rams wide receiver Kenny Britt was all over the Detroit Lions on Sunday.
The eighth-year man out of Rutgers totaled five catches for 121 yards and one score prior to the fourth quarter, but his most sensational play came with his legs.
Trailing Detroit 21-14, Britt hauled in a 47-yard pass from Case Keenum by clasping the rock between his legs while keeping it away from the defender.
Here's the full play:
Kenny Britt showing his hands 👐🏼💯 s://t.co/ThZWJWxPyJ
[Vine, Twitter]
Warning: Content is NSFW.
Pittsburgh Steelers fans are sick.
After seeing Ben Roethlisberger exit Sunday’s game against the Miami Dolphins with a knee injury, you can’t blame them.
Dolphins scored a rushing touchdown and the next camera shot was of Lawrence Timmons vomiting on the field after the play.
Following Dolphins running back Damien Williams’ second-quarter touchdown run, Pittsburgh linebacker Lawrence Timmons felt queasy too:
I'm no doctor... But this can't be a good thing for Lawrence Timmons... #PITvsMIA s://t.co/Uba4MSvC6T
[Vine, Twitter]
This full-extension @1kendallwright TD catch. 😱

#CLEvsTEN s://t.co/X1hJIrbt8k
Tennessee Titans wide receiver Kendall Wright gave this 48-yard touchdown grab everything he had.
Quarterback Marcus Mariota chucked up a deep ball early in the second quarter on Sunday, and Wright made the diving snag before stumbling into the end zone.
He went all-out:
Wright appeared shaken up on the play, but he was able to walk off the field.
Tennessee took a 14-6 lead over the Cleveland Browns.
[Vine]
Kap’s back.
Early in the second quarter against the Buffalo Bills on Sunday, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick connected with Torrey Smith on a 53-yard score.
It was the QB’s first touchdown pass since Oct. 18, 2015. That's 364 days.
The Niners took a 10-7 lead.
[Vine]
The Pittsburgh Steelers seem to deploy a new weapon every game.
Last week, it was Sammie Coates. This week, it was a different wide receiver: Darrius Heyward-Bey.
With 5:39 left in the first quarter, Pittsburgh ran an end-around to the 29-year-old DHB, who surged through the Miami Dolphins 60 yards to the house.
The Steelers ran a successful two-point conversion and took an 8-3 lead.  
As he entered New Era Field before his first start of the season, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick wore a shirt bearing the image of deceased boxer Muhammad Ali.
The 28-year-old dual-threat signal-caller has made noise with his pregame protests during the national anthem this year, but he will look to let his game do the talking against the Buffalo Bills.
It’s Kap’s first start since Nov. 1, 2015. Kickoff is at 1 p.m. ET.  
The Golden State Warriors took time to meet with Gavin, an 11-year old boy battling leukemia in Las Vegas, and his friends after the game. s://t.co/4QG8b1HLJV
After knocking off the Los Angeles Lakers 112-107 in Saturday's preseason matchup, the Golden State Warriors' superstars met with Gavin, an 11-year-old fan with leukemia.
First, Kevin Durant and Draymond Green signed autographs and took pictures for Gavin and his friends, per ESPN's Arash Markazi. 
Then, Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson came by and did the same:
@youngready_ They all came out at some point. s://t.co/5JZQMaS2xt
Props to the Dubs for going out of their way to spend a few minutes with the group. It clearly meant a lot.

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Friday night’s #BRVarsityLive Facebook stream featured a bevy of highlights, and among the wackiest was this 32-yard touchdown from Sylvan Hills wide receiver Jamar Lane.
With four minutes, 33 seconds left and his team trailing the anti-punting Pulaski Academy, Bears quarterback Jordan Washington floated a deep ball into the end zone. It actually bounced off a Bruins defensive back, and Lane corralled it while keeping his feet inbounds.
Then he brushed himself off.
Pulaski held on to win 35-23.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Everyone loves big-man touchdowns.
This play from Pulaski Academy (Arkansas) defensive lineman Will Hart, though, is as good as it gets.
With five minutes, 35 seconds left in a 28-17 game during Friday night’s #BRVarsityLive Facebook stream, the 6'1" senior snared a point-blank pass from Sylvan Hills quarterback Jordan Washington.
As if coming down with the pick wasn’t enough, Hart rumbled about 56 yards for a score.
Pulaski took a 35-17 lead.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Jordan Washington is the Sylvan Hills high school quarterback.
But when the Bears need a big play defensively, the senior checks in as a defensive back.
This was the case late in the second quarter on Friday night against the Pulaski Academy Bruins, a team that doesn’t punt and always goes for the two-point conversion.
With Pulaski leading 14-10, quarterback Layne Hatcher tried to go deep, but his QB counterpart picked him off with a leaping two-handed grab.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Pulaski Academy (Arkansas) head coach Kevin Kelley is not messing around when he says he doesn’t punt.
With seven minutes to go in the first half of Friday night's #BRVarsityLive Facebook stream, Kelley instructed his team to go for a first down…on 4th-and-30 from its own 10-yard line.
That's not how they drew it up before the game.
Pulaski quarterback Layne Hatcher was forced to float up a prayer, which was picked off by Sylvan Hill’s Anthony Duncan.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Pulaski Academy (Arkansas) isn’t your average high school football team.
The Bruins don’t punt.
They go for two every time they score.
Best of all, they enter the field led by people in Harambe and T-Rex costumes.
Pulaski led the Sylvan Hills Bears 8-3 after the first quarter of the #BRVarsityLive Facebook stream on Friday night.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
That was quick.
Just a handful of plays into their opening drive on Friday night, the Pulaski Academy Bruins (Arkansas) found the end zone to kick off the #BRvarsitylive Facebook stream.
Wide receiver Ray Jackson surged into the secondary and quarterback Layne Hatcher hit him in stride with a sweet deep ball.
Pulaski, the team that’s been known to never punt and always go for two-point conversions, took an 8-0 lead over the Sylvan Hills Bears.
Get an exclusive look inside the newly rebooted locker room complex featuring @Jumpman23 shoe wall w/ every Air Jordan ever

#CarolinaFamily s://t.co/ob3RkfqUy0
Being Michael Jordan’s alma mater pays dividends.
On Friday, the University of North Carolina posted a look inside of the basketball team’s new Coach Bill Guthridge Locker Room complex. The highlight? A wall of every Air Jordan shoe ever made.
That’s sneakerhead heaven.
Exclusive Tar Heel locker room renovation photo gallery s://t.co/QtYp2M3bpu #UNCBBall #CarolinaFamily s://t.co/IKCcu3om7n

Of course, all 31 models boasted Tar Heel baby blue. You can scroll through all of the editions here.   

JR Smith forever. 🐬 s://t.co/mC0iRcDZ1r
Free-agent shooting guard J.R. Smith describes himself as a dolphin.
Yes, a dolphin.
Here’s what the 2016 NBA champion told Charles Bethea of the New Yorker:
"The dolphin is my favorite animal. It’s graceful. When it jumps out of the water, it’s one of the most peaceful things you can see. Especially when the sun is hitting off the water. There’s something just so calm and peaceful about it. At the same time, if it goes down, a dolphin is like, O.K., let’s go. ... I’m a dolphin. That’s all people need to know."
Smith makes a valid argument. And it’s not the first time he’s been likened to the marine mammal, either.
In August, LeBron James described the 31-year-old as a dolphin while offering a different (but equally reasonable) explanation on the Open Run podcast (h/t SLAM):
"I don’t know man, JR is like a dolphin, man…You know why? I watch a lot of these… what is it called, Open Water? Or National Geographic, and dolphins like, they’re really killers. Sharks are afraid of them. But, they gotta have a group around them to become the best of their ability… And incredibly smart.”
The man-dolphin remains a free agent, and ESPN.com’s Marc Stein reported Friday that it’s "only a matter of time" before Smith starts entertaining teams outside of Cleveland.       
[h/t New Yorker]

Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Before Game 4 of a National League Division Series, one San Francisco Giants fan brought a live goat named Spock to AT&T Park in an effort to channel the infamous curse placed on the Chicago Cubs in 1945.
Andrew Baggarly of the Bay Area News Group talked to Spock's owner, Rodnel Magat, outside the stadium. He made it clear the goat's appearance was about the curse:
Meet this goat. His name is Spock. s://t.co/dJDr0phCNi
Chicago held a 2-1 series lead over San Francisco heading into Tuesday night's game, but the Giants led the contest 5-2 in the bottom of the seventh inning.
[h/t MLB.com's Cut4]
D'Angelo Russell's new tattoo of Muhammad Ali s://t.co/TsuxXaPguP
D'Angelo Russell has some new ink.
On Tuesday, Twitter user Andrew Martinez (@IamDrewInLA) posted a picture of a Muhammad Ali tattoo on the Los Angeles Lakers point guard's right calf.
As reported by Broderick Turner of the Los Angeles Times, Russell attended the same Louisville high school as the late boxing legend. Here's what the 20-year-old told Turner after Ali died in June:
It's crazy to see somebody with that type of legacy go. I went to his high school and I'm from the same city, so for somebody like him to pass away, it hurts. I'm young, so when I first met him, he was struggling a little bit and I didn't get to see him at his best. I just knew how great he was back in the day.
D-Russ was clearly impacted by The Greatest and his death, and it resulted in the depiction on his leg.

Tim Tebow an amazing individual. Tends to a man who had a seizure s://t.co/ttYrQiqePh
Forget about Tim Tebow's baseball pursuits for a moment and take in this story from ABC 15's Kari Van Horn.
While signing autographs after an 0-for-3 performance in his Arizona Fall League debut Tuesday, the former NFL quarterback placed his hand on a fan having what was described as a seizure.
Per Van Horn, the man breathed:
Tebow signing autographs. Fan has what looks like seizure. Not moving. Tebow puts hand on him and says a prayer. Man breathes. WOW.
Tebow stayed with the fan until medical personnel arrived:
My friend had a seizure at Mets game and Tebow prayed for him and stayed with him until paramedics arrived #Mets #MLB #ESPN #Tebow s://t.co/eVMP8iZ7b4
Classic Tebow.
[Twitter, h/t The Big Lead]
Enemies, no longer.
Two weeks after getting whacked in the face with a kicking net during a frustrating loss to Washington, New York Giants star receiver Odell Beckham Jr. made nice with the piece of equipment in Sunday night's bout with the Green Bay Packers.
A lot can change in two weeks...@OBJ_3. s://t.co/0VpK5zwWoo
Following OBJ’s first touchdown of the season, an eight-yard strike from Eli Manning in the back of the end zone, he kissed the kicking net.
For most receivers, this would be an incredible grab. For Beckham, it was almost routine:
Beckham's touchdown cut Green Bay's lead to 23-16 with 2:54 to go.
[Vine]
The Toronto Blue Jays made quick work of the Texas Rangers with a sweep in the American League Division Series.
Game 3 went into extra innings tied at six on Sunday night, and it ended with a near-double play on a Russell Martin ground ball in the bottom of the 10th with men on first and second base.
Rangers second baseman Rougned Odor's throw from second was off the mark, and Josh Donaldson dashed around to score in a close play at the plate.
The Blue Jays will play the winner of the Boston Red Sox-Cleveland Indians series in the American League Championship Series.
[MLB]
Pittsburgh is stronger than cancer. #NFLPink s://t.co/q4fV2Fq19R
Before Sunday's 31-13 win over the New York Jets, Pittsburgh Steelers running back DeAngelo Williams met with and hugged a group of breast cancer survivors on the sideline.
Williams' mother died of the disease in 2014.
He dyed his hair pink that September and has kept the look ever since. Last season, D-Will wanted to wear pink accessories for all 16 games—instead of exclusively in October—but the NFL denied that request, according to ESPN.com's Field Yates.
Props to Williams for finding other ways to both honor his mother and raise awareness.

The Dallas Cowboys put on a show against the Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday, and the star was running back Ezekiel Elliott.
With 11:47 to go in the third quarter and the ‘Boys leading 21-0, the rookie gashed the visitors with a 60-yard dash to the house.
Elliott was virtually untouched on his second score of the day. Through three quarters, Zeke piled up 133 rushing yards on 14 carries.
Your thoughts, Tony Romo?
#Cowboys QB Tony Romo knows what's up: "It's over." s://t.co/FY8jkpv7Ze

Los Angeles Sparks guard Alana Beard iced a 78-76 victory in Game 1 of the WNBA Finals on Sunday.
Point guard Chelsea Gray drove into the paint and kicked it to Beard with about two seconds left. The 34-year-old former Duke star rose and fired, finding the bottom of the net as the horn sounded.
Clutch.
Alana Beard scores just 4 points ... but the last 2 won the game. Buzzer-beater from AB gives the Sparks a 78-76 victory. Wow.
Game 2 between the Sparks and Lynx will be Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET in Minnesota.
[Vine, Twitter]
This embodied the first half of Sunday's game between the Dallas Cowboys and Cincinnati Bengals.
With about five minutes to go before the break, rookie quarterback Dak Prescott hit tight end Jason Witten with a strike across the middle. The veteran caught the ball in stride and then dropped Bengals safety Derron Smith with a ruthless right-handed stiff-arm.
The Cowboys scored a touchdown on the next play, and Dallas led the Bengals 21-0 at halftime.
[Vine]
.@KingJames is ready to #RallyTogether. 

Let's go!!!! s://t.co/1vuBXVOgxi
Nothing gets Cleveland fans amped up quite like the presence of their King, LeBron James.
Before Game 2 of the American League Division Series, LBJ and a handful of Cavaliers teammates took Progressive Field to rally the troops before the Indians tried to assert a 2-0 series lead over the Boston Red Sox. 
He was greeted with "MVP" chants:
Crowd chants "MVP!" as LeBron takes the mic before Game 2. #RallyTogether s://t.co/Z8ItTJXjRD
"Us against the world," James said. "Always us against the world. Cleveland against the world. Let's go!"
The fans loved it.
[Twitter, Vine]
JR Smith now has an emoji app. Yes, there are shirtless options s://t.co/H3gfDGzmbO
J.R. Smith’s life lends itself to an emoji app.
There are just so many options to choose from, including his shirtless escapades following the Cleveland Cavaliers’ 2015-16 NBA Championship victory over the Golden State Warriors.
On Friday, ESPN’s Darren Rovell posted a preview of Smith’s new app, called “Swishmoji,” which was designed by his New Generation Management marketing team. It’s available for $2 in the app store.
Here’s another look:
You can get your very own "Swishmoji" available in the app store right now! s://t.co/2XBtMRsYYG


Joel “The Process” Embiid.
Has a nice ring to it, eh?
According to John Smallwood of the Philadelphia Daily News, the Sixers big man requested that announcer Matt Cord introduce him as such before his first home preseason game Thursday.
hero. s://t.co/mdWTGBv3sb
Embiid was not announced as “The Process,” an obvious nod to the phrase attached to former 76ers general manager Sam Hinkie, whose decision to tank resulted in a handful of lottery picks.
But the 22-year-old big fella did change his Instagram page to reflect his new desired moniker:
Joel Embiid changed his Instagram name to reflect the new nickname he wants: The Process s://t.co/gWBMvPN9SH
It was quickly added to Embiid's Basketball Reference page, as well:
Hey @JoelEmbiid we got you: s://t.co/gMGjMCBHqA s://t.co/efplnSKKLy

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
Last year, the struggling Texas Longhorns knocked off the then-ranked No. 10 Oklahoma Sooners and celebrated in epic fashion.
On Saturday, the Red River Rivalry will be renewed.
Both the Longhorns and the No. 20-ranked Sooners are 2-2 coming into what should be a high-scoring offensive affair.
Kickoff is at noon ET on Fox Sports 1.
Urban Meyer and Jim Harbaugh are unlikely to ever get in a fistfight.
But if they did, Houston Cougars coach Tom Herman is betting on his former boss.
Here’s what the 41-year-old said in an interview with Dan Patrick on Friday:
"Yes, absolutely he could. That's where my money would be. He would be the Vegas favorite." -Tom Herman on if Urban could take Harbaugh
Having worked as Ohio State's offensive coordinator from 2012 to 2014, Herman is biased. It would be a good scrap, though, that’s for sure.
[YouTube, Twitter]
A photo posted by Alexander Ovechkin (@aleksandrovechkinofficial)
You’d think Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin’s hockey skills would lend itself to the golf course.
Apparently it doesn’t.
On Friday, the 31-year-old captain posted a video of himself trying to tee off. The key word there is “trying.”
Ovechkin got a whole lot of grass on his first swing. He laughed it off, refocused and connected. Then, he celebrated like a madman.
[Instagram]
A photo posted by Ethan Sherwood Strauss (@sherwoodstrauss)
DeMarcus Cousins still can’t believe it.
After falling to the Golden State Warriors in Thursday’s preseason contest, the Sacramento Kings All-Star shook his head—seemingly in disbelief—and laughed after seeing Kevin Durant taking questions as a member of the Dubs.
We’re with you, Boogie.
KD dropped a game-high 25 points in the 105-96 victory.
[Instagram]
Dad level: All-Star.
Last week, Gavin MacCall posted a video of his five-year-old daughter, Lylah, dominating an intricate American Ninja Warrior obstacle course he built in their backyard.
As Lylah scaled the wooden beams and walked across the roofs of sheds, her dad narrated and her stuffed animals cheered her on.
While certainly amusing, it's still impressive. Lylah even one-armed the zipline.
MacCall posted a GoFundMe link to raise money for an even bigger course.
[Facebook]
Blaine Gabbert last night: 18/31 162 yards, 1 TD, 2 Ints

49ers fans seemed fed up #WeWantKaep (via @ai) s://t.co/4jmVotuFHy
Some San Francisco 49ers fans are ready for a change.
As quarterback Blaine Gabbert struggled against the Arizona Cardinals on Thursday night, chants in favor of subbing in Colin Kaepernick spread throughout Levi’s Stadium.
Gabbert finished 18-of-31 for 162 yards, two interceptions and one touchdown in the 33-21 loss. Head coach Chip Kelly said he would address the position later in the week, per Chris Biderman of Niners Wire:
Chip Kelly says he's not discussing making a quarterback change tonight. "We're going to look at everything" on offense.
It’s important to note that Kap is reportedly still not 100 percent healthy following multiple offseason surgeries to his shoulder and thumb.


The Cleveland Browns are getting no respect from their home state.
According to a recent survey from Public Policy Polling (via Bill DiFilippo of Uproxx), 62 percent of Ohio natives believe Urban Meyer’s 4-0 Ohio State Buckeyes would beat the 0-4 Browns in a game.
C'mon.
This is like the “Could College Team X beat the Philadelphia 76ers?” debate during the prime of the Sixers’ tanking years. It’s fun to joke about, but the pros are pros for a reason.
[h/t Uproxx]
With two men on and one out in the bottom of the 11th inning, Toronto Blue Jays first baseman Edwin Encarnacion sealed Tuesday's American League Wild Card Game with a booming home run to left field.
The 33-year-old turned on a pitch from the Baltimore Orioles' Ubaldo Jimenez, who struggled mightily in a brief appearance. The 2010 All-Star gave up three hits on five pitches.
The Blue Jays walked off with a 5-2 victory and will face the Texas Rangers in the American League Division Series.
That'll be uneventful.
[MLB]
C'mon, fans.
During the bottom of the seventh inning in Tuesday's American League Wild Card Game, a can thrown from the Toronto Blue Jays stands nearly hit Baltimore Orioles left fielder Hyun Soo Kim as he got set to field a Melvin Upton fly ball.
Kim completed the catch before turning to look at the crowd. Center fielder Adam Jones was heated:
Here's that fan in Toronto tossing a can of beer at Hyun-soo Kim (via @FanSportsClips) s://t.co/FTlRvsRmXd
The Blue Jays and Orioles were tied 2-2 heading into the eighth inning.
[Vine, Twitter]
Nothing says "farewell" quite like a massive mosaic made of donuts.
On Tuesday, that's what Dunkin' Donuts created for retiring Boston Red Sox star David Ortiz. The coffeehouse chain, which was born in Massachusetts, used 10,000 donuts to create the work of art.
From a distance, you'd never know it was a giant dessert.
Even better, in a nod to Big Papi's number, 34 cents from every donut purchased was donated to The Greater Boston Food Bank.
[Dunkin' Donuts]
Derek Carr has ice in his veins.
With two minutes and 12 seconds left in the Oakland Raiders' game against the Baltimore Ravens, the third-year quarterback helped erase a 27-21 deficit with a strike to Michael Crabtree in the back of the end zone.
Take another look:
Carr’s 23-yard touchdown pass proved to be Sunday's game-winner. He finished with 199 yards and four touchdowns, three of which went to Crabtree, in the 28-27 victory.
[Twitter, Vine]
Sunday belonged to Julio Jones.
The Atlanta Falcons superstar decimated the Carolina Panthers all game long and topped his performance off with a 75-yard catch-and-run for a fourth-quarter touchdown.
That score put Jones at 300 yards on the afternoon. You read that right—12 catches for 300 yards.
The all-time record for receiving yards in a single game is 336, set by Willie “Flipper” Anderson in 1989.

With the Oklahoma City Thunder in Spain for two preseason games, Russell Westbrook caught up with Real Madrid's Cristiano Ronaldo.
The two superstars swapped jerseys.
Oklahoma City's point guard posted a picture of himself and his fellow fashion mogul afterward:
Enjoying life. s://t.co/aYx6I1hs4M
Real recognize real.
[Twitter, Vine]
Kicker Cody Parkey—who signed with the Cleveland Browns on Sept. 24 after Patrick Murray was placed on the injured reserve list—may still be getting used to his new team.
On Sunday, the 24-year-old mistimed his runup and was called for a false start. Long snapper Charley Hughlett started his motion but never let go of the ball. It looked like a Madden glitch.
The Browns moved five yards back, but Parkey still knocked the 45-yard field goal through the uprights to give Cleveland a 20-17 lead with 9:25 left in the third quarter.
[Vine]
.@Dodgers Could you do us a Giant favor today? 🙏 🙏 🙏 s://t.co/3mkidAZk8I
The St. Louis Cardinals want the second National League wild card so bad they're asking the Los Angeles Dodgers for help.
St. Louis needs to beat the Pittsburgh Pirates on Sunday to have a shot at the playoff spot. If the Cards lose, the San Francisco Giants have a date with the New York Mets.
But if the Cardinals win and the Giants fall to the Dodgers, St. Louis would host a tiebreaker game Monday.
Before the start of games Sunday, the Cardinals swallowed their pride and posted a Twitter meme calling for some assistance.

The Ryder Cup is quickly getting personal.
After sinking a putt for birdie Sunday, American Patrick Reed bowed and gave Rory McIlroy, his singles opponent, a finger wag.
The Northern Ireland star responded with a birdie of his own and a "shhh" motion to Reed:
On the next hole, Rory makes birdie on top of Reed and then goes "shhhh". This match is my everything. #RyderCup s://t.co/oI43w1H2Ka
The two continued to go back and forth, but the celebrations were good-natured:
Is this really happening?? Incredible. 

#RyderCup #GoUSA s://t.co/guA2h1BjGK
[Twitter, Vine]
Rob Gronkowski might be rubbing off on his head coach.
After the Buffalo Bills marched for a touchdown on their opening drive against the New England Patriots on Sunday, Bill Belichick was displeased.
The 64-year-old head coach spiked his tablet in frustration.
It wasn't quite a "Gronk spike," but it was a strong display of emotion for Belichick.
[Vine]
It's safe to say Jimmy Graham is back.
During the first quarter of the Seattle Seahawks' Week 4 game against the New York Jets, the veteran tight end made a ridiculous one-handed catch for a first down on a Russell Wilson pass.
Take another look:
Remember when Jimmy Graham was freaking awesome? It's still in there somewhere: s://t.co/HsQzDB0aJH
Graham, who had six catches for 100 yards and a score last week, tore his patellar tendon in Week 12 last season.
[Twitter, Vine]
WHOA. Pregame shoving between the #Bills and #Patriots. Malcolm Mitchell and Robert Blanton getting things started. @News_8 s://t.co/nbntMSK2hX
Before Sunday's AFC East rivalry game between the New England Patriots and Buffalo Bills, things got heated.
Bills safety Robert Blanton shoved Patriots rookie quarterback Jacoby Brissett, which led to Pats wide receiver Malcolm Mitchell fighting back.
Bills safety Robert Blanton shoved Jacoby Brissett, leading to Malcolm Mitchell getting in Blanton's face.
Here's another angle:
Robert Blanton and Malcolm Mitchell go at it here at midfield as #Bills and #Patriots take field for warm-ups s://t.co/CDbZ2eLtid
The players were separated before the scuffle got out of hand. New England president Jonathan Kraft later jabbed Bills coach Rex Ryan over the scrap, per Phil Perry of CSNNE.com:
Jonathan Kraft takes a shot at Rex Ryan when asked about the pregame scrap involving Jacoby Brissett,  Malcolm Mitchell and Robert Blanton.
Kraft: "I think if you are less-than-disciplined in your personal approach, your team takes on the attitude of the coach..." (1/2)
Kraft: "...My guess is Rex probably loves that. That's why Rex is Rex. And that's why Bill is Bill." (2/2)
Kickoff is at 1 p.m. ET. This should be fun.

Cam's kicks

#CARvsATL #KeepPounding s://t.co/1Lxilkpm4B
Before Sunday's road contest against the Atlanta Falcons, Carolina Panthers superstar Cam Newton turned heads with his footwear.
Surprising, right?
The reigning NFL MVP's latest choice was a pair of music-themed cleats with funky colors. They were pink, yellow and turquoise and featured an array of instruments.

🎶 This is the story of a champion 🎶

LeBron was in the mosh pit at the Kanye concert in Cleveland tonight 👀(via kingjames/Instagram) s://t.co/yFYfdVFXqh
LeBron James and some Cleveland Cavaliers teammates attended Kanye West's Saint Pablo Tour show at Quicken Loans Arena on Saturday night.
Tristan Thompson, J.R. Smith and Richard Jefferson joined the King.
Things got wild when the reigning NBA champions hit the floor:
LeBron James &amp; the #Cavs were mobbin' with the other Kanye West fans at the #SaintPabloTour stop in Cleveland
 
@KingJames loves it! s://t.co/X7PrVpIMOp
After the show, James posed with West, who was rocking a sweet Tupac T-shirt:
A photo posted by LeBron James (@kingjames)
Here's a snippet of the backstage interaction:
West has made a habit of shouting out LBJ in his lyrics. Among his best references to James is the following from "New God Flow" in 2012: "Went from most hated to the champion god flow; I guess that's a feeling only me and LeBron know."
[Instagram, Twitter]
Sunday night vibes ! The KING !! 🏌👑 s://t.co/MxZe9QzAZn
Antonio Brown will honor the late golfer Arnold Palmer on Sunday night against the Kansas City Chiefs. Palmer died last Sunday at age 87.
The Pittsburgh Steelers superstar's cleats will feature Palmer's likeness.
"Every week, I'm going to try to keep some motivation or put a picture of somebody that means the most to me or inspires me to keep me encouraged," Brown told ESPN.com's Jeremy Fowler, adding that he will adhere to the NFL's color policy.
As noted by Charles Curtis of For The Win, Brown tweeted out a video of himself and Palmer earlier this week:
Blessed to meet the legend Arnold Palmer ! His tenacity on the course + in business is so inspirational !!

Positive precious life #callGod s://t.co/x4sIKTcbiG
"A guy like Arnold, his legacy and what he meant not only to the world, but to Latrobe, to Pennsylvania, his legacy will live on," Brown said, per Fowler. "An inspiring guy. I'm glad I got a moment to share with him."
After this week's game, perhaps Brown will have a cold one:
Antonio Brown on making an Arnold Palmer: "You mix the lemonade with the ice tea. Pretty basic."
[h/t ESPN.com, Twitter]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
The Dream Quarterback-Wide Receiver Duos in 2018 Recruiting Class
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
No. 7 Stanford and No. 10 Washington are both undefeated.
That ends on Friday night.
The host Huskies will look to contain Christian McCaffrey, who put together 300 all-purpose yards and two scores in a 31-14 Cardinal victory a season ago.
Kickoff is at 9 p.m. ET on ESPN.
This is Joel Embiid holding a regulation size NBA ball s://t.co/5Ro4yxGMxt
Everyone knows Philadelphia 76ers big man Joel Embiid is a massive dude.
The 22-year-old is arguably taller than his 7-foot listing, and he also weighs 250 pounds.
But as impressive as those measurements are, look at Embiid's hands. In this case, the visual is more powerful than any numerical listing.
"Trust the Process," indeed.

Yasiel Puig offered his bat for 50 push-ups, and even offered support along the way. s://t.co/PzConJYxRs
Los Angeles Dodgers star Yasiel Puig has no problem giving out autographed memorabilia.
You just have to earn it.
On Thursday, the 25-year-old outfielder took up a 12-year-old's simple offer written on the young fan's sign, per ESPN.com's Doug Padilla: "Will do pushups 4 a bat!!"

The young fella banged them out, and afterward, in addition to the bat, received a quick towel-off and drink from Puig.




Welcome to the NBA, rook!

Brandon Ingram sings "Diamonds" by Rihanna at Lakers Rookie Talent Show 😂 (via @JClark5on) s://t.co/mgkjD1e2Qi
Brandon Ingram could very well become a star one day.
But for now, he's just a rookie.
On Thursday, the Los Angeles Lakers had a talent show for their first-year players, and it included performances from Ivica Zubac, Zach Auguste, Julian Jacobs and the No. 2 overall pick from Duke.
Ingram curiously took the court wearing a poodle mask and white onesie before belting out a passionate rendition of Rihanna's "Diamonds."

Yeah, Hunter Renfroe got all of that one.
On Wednesday, the San Diego Padres outfielder blasted a two-run homer off Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Jose De Leon in the third inning.
It reached historic heights:    
Padres say a home run has never landed on the roof of the Western Metal Supply building before today.
Renfroe’s shot gave San Diego a 5-3 lead heading into the fourth inning.
[Vine, Cut4]
A photo posted by Von Miller (@vonmiller)
Von Miller and J.J. Watt are arguably the most physically dominant players in the NFL. Because of that, there seems to be a mutual respect between the two.
On Wednesday morning, the Houston Texans placed Watt on injured reserve with a back injury. Hours later, the Denver Broncos' star linebacker chimed in:
"Adversity reveals character" & WE ALL know you'll be right back!!! Get Healthy big dawg! Nobody grinds like you family! #DBWH @justinjames99 LOVE #99Savage #Resilient
It’s hard to picture anyone disagreeing with the reigning Super Bowl MVP's message.    
[Von Miller]
Texas Rangers veteran third baseman Adrian Beltre had some childlike fun during an 8-5 win over the Milwaukee Brewers on Wednesday.
After clubbing a double, the 37-year-old slid into second base and played patty-cake on the bag. Props to Brewers shortstop Orlando Arcia for keeping the tag on throughout.
Beltre finished the night with two hits, an RBI and a run in four at-bats.
[Vine]

This is vintage Eli Manning.
Days ahead of the New York Giants’ Monday night showdown with the Minnesota Vikings in Minneapolis, the veteran quarterback was asked if this particular opponent has his number.
After all, the Vikings dismantled Big Blue, 49-17, in Week 16 last year.
Manning didn’t take the bait, per Pat Leonard of the New York Daily News:
Eli Manning's funny full quote about the #Vikings who "have his number." He really dragged it out. s://t.co/9MgyAaApHl

What do you do on your bye week? You get your first bow buck! Thanks @DougBurgum for the help!!! #ndlegendary #Sitka s://t.co/QQQCN6TL70
Philadelphia Eagles star Carson Wentz has had a wild three weeks to start his NFL career.
After taking the league by storm with a 103.8 quarterback rating, five touchdowns, zero turnovers and three victories, the 23-year-old rookie kicked back with his team on its bye in Week 4.
According to his Twitter account, the No. 2 overall pick returned to North Dakota to do some hunting.
The Detroit Lions, ironically, will host Wentz and Co. in Week 5.

The @MinnesotaLynx's @SeimoneAugustus paying homage to the late Prince tonight. s://t.co/ue7yBSqRla
Minnesota Lynx guard Seimone Augustus honored late pop star Prince before facing the Phoenix Mercury in Game 1 of the WNBA semifinals on Wednesday.
Aaron Rupar of ThinkProgress tweeted her purple Kyrie Irving Nike kicks with Prince's logo on the right foot. The left features the "1999" lyric "Life is just a party."
Via my bro, @seimoneaugustus' shoes tonight. Crazy to think it was less than year ago #LosLynx partied with Prince after winning title. 😢 s://t.co/mugOyfBa17
Last year, the musical icon—who was born in Minneapolis—threw a private party (featuring a Lynx-themed concert) for the team following its 2015 championship.
It seems Augustus hasn't forgotten.

Daaaaaaaaaaaaae-Ho and I. Credit to Rollins for the unintentional photo bomb. s://t.co/gTmrafZRpw
Rookies have to dress up sometimes. That’s just how it goes.
On Wednesday, the Seattle Mariners razzed their first-year players, and 34-year-old first baseman Dae-Ho Lee sported a Kool-Aid Man outfit.
According to Ryan Divish of the Seattle Times, this was Robinson Cano's doing:   
It's rookie dress up for the last flight and Cano bought Dae-Ho Lee a Kool-Aid Man costume. Dae-Ho was not impressed
Here’s a group shot:   
Heading home dressed to impress s://t.co/mvrrurDMd0
That's some look.   
[Twitter, h/t theScore]
It doesn’t get more “storybook ending” than this.
On Sunday, Los Angeles Dodgers second baseman Charlie Culberson hit a solo shot to left field in the 10th inning of what was a 3-3 stalemate with the Colorado Rockies.
The home run clinched the Dodgers’ fourth straight division title and also sent legendary announcer Vin Scully, who is retiring, out in style. Listen to the call above.
Following the 4-3 victory, Scully addressed fans before the team played a version of "The Wind Beneath My Wings" sung by the 88-year-old broadcaster himself.
The rendition was originally a gift to his wife, per Uproxx’s Bill Hanstock:
The Dodgers are playing a version of Vin Scully singing "The Wind Beneath My Wings" as he says goodbye to Dodger Stadium.
VIN SCULLY PROFESSIONALLY RECORDED A COVER VERSION OF WIND BENEATH MY WINGS AS A GIFT TO HIS WIFE &amp; IS NOW PLAYING IT IN A BASEBALL STADIUM
vin scully says goodbye to dodger fans at home by playing "wind beneath my wings." we'll miss you vin! s://t.co/oJPm9tlRGP
Classic stuff.

[Twitter, MLB]
Safe to say Jalen Ramsey and Steve Smith are not going to be friends.

"He's a good player.. but I don't respect him as a man."

#Jaguars s://t.co/2sSypS02XD
Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback Jalen Ramsey has made a habit of speaking his mind early in his NFL career.
Two weeks after calling out Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, the rookie cornerback had some words for Baltimore Ravens receiver Steve Smith.
Ramsey said Smith approached him after the Ravens victory because he was mad the 21-year-old was “locking him up.”
Jalen Ramsey and Steve Smith still yapping after game.  Almost had some pushing and shoving until others intervened. #ASJax
The first-round pick went on to say that he respects Smith as a player, but not as a man:
Jaguars rookie Jalen Ramsey had some choice words for Steve Smith Sr. 👀 s://t.co/kxCvosibWP
UPDATE: Sunday, Sept. 25, at 7:55 p.m. ET
The 37-year-old receiver snapped back at Ramsey after hearing what was said postgame:
In 5 to 10 u will be retiring and they will be taking my measurements for something you... s://t.co/Vpkmplz3a5 s://t.co/cKdV2FMJce
I gave U every opportunity to speak face to face . But you found your voice safely behind closed doors. Young man I don't need ur respect! s://t.co/kaGDEhTkIF
--End of update--
Jacksonville fell to 0-3 after the 19-17 loss. Baltimore moved to 3-0.

Postgame with @CameronNewton. 🎩 #MINvsCAR s://t.co/KGcA1dijdG
Cam Newton and the Carolina Panthers are 1-2 following Sunday's loss to the Minnesota Vikings, but the man's hats are undefeated.
Following last week's carnival cap, the reigning MVP sported a top hat featuring a pin that said "Don't be a puppet" after his team fell 22-10 in Week 3.
Newton threw for 262 yards, but he also had three picks against Minnesota. He rushed for 26 yards and a score.
We look forward to next week:

FIRST LOOK: Warriors confirm they will be wearing a "Run TMC" retro for six games this season, jersey will go on sale on Monday s://t.co/aElvBxNINC
The Golden State Warriors are embracing the throwback look.
According to ESPN's Darren Rovell, the Dubs are going to bring back the "Run TMC" jerseys from the days of Tim Hardaway, Mitch Richmond and Chris Mullin.
Here's a look at the original:

Per Rovell, Golden State will rock the retro threads for six games in 2016-17.

Earlier this month at a Nike event, Kevin Durant said he and former Oklahoma City Thunder teammate Russell Westbrook are "still cool," per the Oklahoman's Erik Horne.
Westbrook wasn't as warm at OKC's media day Friday.
When asked about the Golden State Warriors superstar, the 27-year-old point guard kept his answer short and (not so) sweet:
Russell Westbrook on if he's "still cool" with Kevin Durant: "I haven't talked to him." That was the full answer.
OKC will travel to Oracle Arena on Thursday, November 3. Don't miss it.
[Twitter, Vine]
.@Kaepernick7 mural. Spotted on 22nd st. &amp;Telegraph ave. in #Oakland.
... Rightnowish. s://t.co/7QOYtxc9A3
On Thursday, journalist Pendarvis Harshaw spotted a mural in Oakland, California, that depicts San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
The portrait of Kaepernick features the words "We got your back," a clear reference to the 28-year-old's decision to protest the national anthem to bring attention to treatment of minorities.
"The illustration speaks volumes," Harshaw told NBC Bay Area's Lisa Fernandez. "It's about the community rallying around the athlete."
Harshaw also noted the significance of the location, as the mural is in Oakland Raiders territory.
All that's known about the artist is three letters, "FLC," which appear in the bottom right corner.
[Twitter, h/t NBC Bay Area]
Its good to give back to the man who's always been by my side.🤘🏼 @CoachWalser s://t.co/W4Sb5tMPim
On Thursday, a Texas high school student surprised his coach and teacher with a pair of Air Jordans he's wanted since he was 12 years old.
"This is for you, for always keeping it real with me," Hector Montez said. "You told me sophomore year this was your favorite shoe, and you told me your size, but you don't even remember."
Thomas Walser, whose Twitter bio lists him as a defensive coordinator, was elated. He posted a picture of his new Air Jordan 12 "Taxi":
Remember the student who gifted his teacher his favorite sneakers? Nike returned the favor with a special note 🙌 (via @chayes2bars) s://t.co/Vv8PyPTj0M
Remember the student who gifted his teacher his favorite sneakers? Nike returned the favor with a special note 🙌 (via @chayes2bars) s://t.co/Vv8PyPTj0M
Walser hugged Montez three times and then put the kicks on.
When your kids buy you the shoes you've wanted since you were 12! I love my AVID kids so much! S/O @Augustine__09 s://t.co/yXPHXbhzMI
Awesome.
UPDATE, October 3
If you look up the definition of karma, this story could be the perfect example.
Less than 10 days after Montez gave his teacher the Air Jordan 12s, the student received a special package.
@Augustine__09 you're an amazing guy and I am so proud of the young man you've become! I can't wait to see what else life hold for you bro
Nike hooked him up with a brand-new pair of Jordan sneakers. Talk about a feel-good story.
--End of Update--
[Twitter, Instagram]
The Texans deleted this poll after failing to score last night against the Patriots. Even their social media team was humiliated last night. s://t.co/UJKPtzzchm
Prior to getting bludgeoned 27-0 by the New England Patriots on Thursday, the Houston Texans were somewhat confident.
After all, the poll above assumed they would score multiple touchdowns.
There's the mistake: Never assume anything against Bill Belichick.
Instead, it was Patriots running back LeGarrette Blount who found the end zone twice, including a 41-yard dash in the fourth quarter to seal the win:
As The Comeback noted, the Texans deleted the poll.


On Tuesday, players from around the NBA reacted to the Terence Crutcher shooting in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
You can read about Crutcher's death at CNN.com.
The players used similar photos, but each posted a unique caption.
Here's Dwyane Wade's:
A photo posted by dwyanewade (@dwyanewade)



Nick Young's was similar:

A photo posted by Nick Young (@swaggyp1)



Chris Paul wrote "Our country is better than this:"
A photo posted by Chris Paul (@cp3)




Rajon Rondo included a silhouette of a man with his hands up:
A photo posted by Rajon Rondo (@rajonrondo)
Russell Westbrook reposted a lengthy, passionate caption from John Gray, a religious figure:
A photo posted by Russell Westbrook (@russwest44)
Former Milwaukee Bucks big man Larry Sanders also chimed in, via TMZ, saying he's scared for his children: "It's a terrible cycle of fear."
[Instagram]
#DONTLOOKATME 🙈 s://t.co/tlEcc8RY08
Madison Bumgarner probably won't want to look at this.
On Tuesday, one day after the San Francisco Giants ace got into a heated exchange with Yasiel Puig of the Los Angeles Dodgers, the outfielder and his teammates trolled their rival with "#DontLookAtMe" shirts.
#PuigYourFriend #DontLookAtMe 👀 #Puignotlookingatyou 🙈 @JDL_87 @Adrian_ElTitan s://t.co/2r1JULNyMK
Of course, that's what started Monday night's near-brawl—Bumgarner told Puig not to look at him:
After winning the first game of the series 2-1, Los Angeles will look to keep rolling at home Tuesday.
Update: 10:05 p.m. ET Tuesday, Sept. 20
According to ESPN's Marly Rivera, Puig took the joke a step further.
He signed one of the shirts and sent it to Bumgarner:
According to @MarlyRiveraESPN, Yasiel Puig signed a #DontLookAtMe shirt and sent it to Madison Bumgarner. Fresh.
Adding a little fuel to the fire... All in good fun! s://t.co/d2ImfpyuB3 s://t.co/AImnda42n2
[Twitter, MLB]
During halftime of the Minnesota Vikings’ home opener against the Green Bay Packers on Sunday, there was a ceremony to honor late pop star Prince.
The musical icon, who died on April 21, was born in Minneapolis.
U.S. Bank Stadium was draped in purple lighting as an orchestra covered one of Prince’s biggest hits, “Purple Rain.”
One of the best halftime shows I've ever seen. @mn_orchestra paying tribute to Prince #PurpleRain s://t.co/LPtwg11Qtf
Here's another look:
Prince tribute. Purple Rain. s://t.co/6cIEUyS7yZ
The Vikings led Green Bay 10-7 at the half.
[Twitter, Vine]
Ogletree's postgame attire: Crying Jordan 🎥 | s://t.co/O84dN2l6rD s://t.co/6R4zcTnxch
After Sunday's 9-3 upset over the Seattle Seahawks, St. Louis Rams linebacker Alec Ogletree wore a peculiar piece of postgame attire.
No, it wasn't a carnival hat (like Cam Newton).
Ogletree wore a watercolor "Crying Jordan" shirt.
While it's unclear if he was directly trolling the division-rival Seahawks, the choice of apparel is still amusing.
[Rams]
This was exactly how the Atlanta Falcons drew it up.
With nine minutes and 37 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter against the Oakland Raiders on Sunday, quarterback Matt Ryan fired a third-down pass to Tevin Coleman.
The ball bounced off the running back’s chest and flew near the goal line, landing in the hands of soaring wide receiver Justin Hardy as he entered the end zone.
The incomprehensible score gave Atlanta a 28-21 lead.

Cam is ready to join the barbershop quartet 🎩 s://t.co/iXM9IMq8xL
Cam Newton’s postgame outfits are constantly must-see.
His hats, in particular, always attract attention:
cam newton will put anything that you tell him is a hat on top of his head. s://t.co/3Rp0qoXZDo

After Sunday’s 46-27 Week 2 victory over the San Francisco 49ers, the Carolina Panthers superstar rocked quite a hat, which looked like it was either from a barbershop quartet or a carnival.
Of course, the internet reacted:
"Were you sent here by the devil?" s://t.co/pYOQTdYnYa
#Panthers Cam Newton. Pretty much. s://t.co/a29tL5omIJ
Remember when Cam Newton wore that hat? Pepperidge Farm remembers. s://t.co/7rcqWtZHJk
Cam Newton and Melo must have the same hat guy s://t.co/qc1VebjJS4

Larry Fitzgerald is playing like he's 25 years old again.
In the first quarter of Sunday's Week 2 showdown against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, the 33-year-old Arizona Cardinals receiver snagged a four-yard touchdown pass from Carson Palmer despite airtight coverage by cornerback Brent Grimes.
Fitzgerald's third touchdown of the season and the ensuing extra point gave Arizona a 7-0 lead six seconds into the second quarter.
[Vine]
What @CMaxAkin did last night was just amazing, you are a sweet guy Max😌 s://t.co/RUSzAKMO9C
Keller Fossil Ridge (Texas) senior quarterback Max Akin named his school’s homecoming king on September 9 after racking up 260 total yards and four touchdowns in the first half of a win.
Akin didn’t accept the crown, though.
He gave it to his friend and fellow nominee, team manager K.L. Norwood, who has cerebral palsy.
@ridgepanthers s://t.co/gifu1kxot1
“I think it should’ve gone to the person who positively uplifts the school and everybody around him, and that person is K.L., for sure,” Akin told WFAA’s Ted Madden.
Norwood clearly appreciated the gesture, and he was all smiles throughout the joint interview.
Nothing like Ridge Nation! s://t.co/RotjgrKk9d
“I thought it was the best hearing them chant K.L.’s name right after halftime, and I know he liked that, too,” Akin said (Norwood agreed). “Everybody was going wild for him. Everybody loves K.L. at this school.”
[USA Today High School]
His cover is blown but Theo Epstein still has his stache on in the Wrigley stands (via @briancassella) s://t.co/TLxSj18CqG
Chicago Cubs president Theo Epstein knows how to build a team.
His ability to build a disguise, however? Questionable.
(Keep in mind, this is the same guy who exited his job with the Boston Red Sox wearing a gorilla suit.)
The 42-year-old took in Friday’s game against the Milwaukee Brewers from the Wrigley Field bleachers. Even better, Epstein did so while wearing a fake mustache.
Here are a couple more angles:
Another one from my friend on FB....  Theo Epstein, President of the #Cubs, and just completely awesome.  @LenKasper s://t.co/cUw59ijuFF
Theo in the bleachers s://t.co/TR0JgluEin

At 7’1”, 400 pounds, lineman Brave Williams is a big dude.
The senior at Lake Shore High School in Angola, New York, is taller and heavier than any player currently on an NFL roster, according to MaxPreps’ Lynden Ostrander.
"I've been bigger than everybody my entire life," Williams told Ostrander. "In kindergarten, I was already 5’3” and towered over everyone."
Williams reportedly picked up football just three years ago, and he started three games at nose tackle last season. He also played on the varsity basketball team (presumably at center).
Still raw, Williams is clearly a physical monster. He told Ostrander “his workouts include squats of 1,000 pounds three times and bench presses of 200 pounds 20 times.”
Williams has not received a scholarship offer yet, but he hopes to earn one this season.
[MaxPreps]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
There are only so many perennial titans in college football.
The Ohio State Buckeyes and Oklahoma Sooners are two of the few.
On Saturday, Urban Meyer’s No. 3-ranked team will visit Bob Stoop’s No. 14-ranked squad, which will look to avoid a second loss after falling to Houston in the season opener.
Kickoff is Saturday at 7:30 p.m. ET.
In honor of The Greatest! We pay tribute to the late Muhammad Ali. s://t.co/WMF3xzBCL1
The No. 10 Louisville Cardinals will honor the late Muhammad Ali during their game against No. 2 Florida State on Saturday.
Louisville’s chrome helmets will feature a butterfly decal with “Ali” in the middle—a clear reference to the legendary boxer’s famous "Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee" line.
We will be debuting our new red chrome helmets this Saturday for @CollegeGameDay! s://t.co/dqTp0atc0m
As David Wharton of the Los Angeles Times noted, Ali was a native of Kentucky and supporter of the Cardinals.
According to a press release from the school, Ali’s wife Lonnie and son Asaad will be in attendance and participate in on-field tributes. Fans in the student section will wear shirts that read, “The Champ.”
In addition, a 30-foot painting of the helmet decal “will sit in the northwest corner of the end zone.”
#UofL to honor the GOAT with a tribute in the northwest end zone #Ali s://t.co/eW6G13telN
Louisville with the beautiful tribute to Muhammad Ali. s://t.co/wfgdijciQE
[Twitter, Louisville Athletics]
A photo posted by Kyrie Irving (@kyrieirving)
Kyrie Irving hit Miami Beach with Iman Shumpert on Friday morning for some yoga.
And Pokemon Go.
"Shump, give it a break," Uncle Drew told his Cleveland Cavaliers teammate as he tried to catch a Staryu.
Shumpert eventually stopped hunting and got to work with Irving. He used the hashtag "#defendtheironthrone" in the picture below:
A photo posted by Iman Shumpert (@imanshumpert)
[Instagram]
Eric Decker was an absolute headache for the Buffalo Bills on Thursday.
He probably gave this fan a headache, too.
The New York Jets receiver hauled in six catches for 126 yards and a touchdown in the 37-31 win. After scoring in the second quarter, Decker spotted a Gang Green supporter at New Era Stadium.
He celebrated by head-butting the fan. One problem: The dude wasn’t wearing a helmet.
Eric Decker celebrated a TD on #TNF by headbutting a fan 🤕😂 (via @JordanHeckFF) #Jets #NFL s://t.co/26nMURZJ9r
While it probably stung once the adrenaline wore off, having that story is likely well worth it.
[NFL]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
Who’s taking the Megaphone Trophy this year?
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish have defeated the rival Michigan State Spartans in their past three matchups dating back to 2011. The two have not squared off since 2013, but the rivalry is being renewed in 2016.
No. 12 MSU will look to hand the No. 18 Irish their second loss of the season on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. ET.

"Matt from San Diego," huh?
Some believe this caller on a New England radio show is actually the athlete he talked about: Patriots quarterback Tom Brady.
On Wednesday, CBS Boston’s Toucher and Rich took a call from a guy named Matt, who defended TB-12 after the hosts were razzing him about his over-the-top relationship with receiver Julian Edelman.
Matt said he was originally from San Diego—Brady was born in California—but has been in New England as a fan for over 20 years.
Here’s the meat of the caller’s take:
[I]t occurs to me that being true New England guys, you have to have something to complain about. So, you got three GOATs on the same team: Belichick, Brady, and Gronk. You got the Red Sox in first place. So, all that leaves you to go to is the fact that the man’s the greatest of all time, he’s got a good relationship with his receiver, and his wife’s Gisele Bundchen. I just think it’s very indicative of New England sports fans. Gotta have something to complain about.
Listen to it here:
At first, Matt really does sound like Brady. But as the call continues, he just sounds like a regular Patriots fan. Toward the end, especially when he laughs, he again sounds similar to the four-time Super Bowl champion.
Toucher and Rich investigated:
According to their sources, some people “close to” Brady believe it’s him:
Regarding the "Tom Brady" call. s://t.co/c2gMfhKQTF
Even if it wasn't Brady, there is another suspect:
Look who made it to the game... #fakebrady s://t.co/DeLJ7zPPkN
 
UPDATE: Tuesday, Sept. 20, at 10:50 a.m. ET
In a radio interview with Westwood One's Jim Gray (h/t For The Win's Charlotte Wilder), Brady denied making the call.
"And you get me exclusively, can you believe that … No, there’s none of me — like I said, you’re the only one I’m talking to,” Brady told Gray during his weekly spot.
Let's see if this ends RadioGate once and for all.
    
[h/t Deadspin]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Luckily, more than three copies of NBA 2K17 were released on Friday.
The highly anticipated installment of the popular video game was made available to those who pre-ordered it, which made for a mini-holiday. It will go public Tuesday.
B/R gave the release a Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory spin, as Charlie Bucket finds not a golden ticket, but a copy of 2K.
Get ready to hop on the sticks, Grandpa Joe.
A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
Adrian Beltre's 30th home run of the season came in style.
In the top of the second inning against the Houston Astros on Tuesday night, the 37-year-old dropped to a knee as he walloped a 1-0 breaking ball from pitcher Brad Peacock to left field.
This has become a recurring theme for the star veteran. It's almost like his power-up move.
Beltre's dinger gave Texas a 1-0 lead.
[Instagram]
Retired NFL running back Marshawn Lynch was an animal on the field.
Apparently, he's an animal in the wilderness, too.
During an appearance on NBC's Running Wild with Bear Grylls, the former Seattle Seahawks superstar took on what the outdoors had to offer—including a hog:
Marshawn Lynch with Bear Grylls is the greatest thing ever s://t.co/TyAanq67aG
After a dangerous chase for the animal, Lynch said Grylls better not dangle him over a cliff again:
Here's hoping Beast Mode gets his own wilderness show one day.
[YouTube, Twitter]
David Johnson is a beast s://t.co/SQJFPyW7jJ
David Johnson wasn’t a fluke.
The second-year Arizona Cardinals running back followed up his explosive 2015 campaign with a big night against the New England Patriots on Sunday.
With about 11 minutes go in the fourth quarter, Johnson shook off a handful of New England defenders before rumbling for 45 yards down the sideline.
While he didn’t reach the end zone, Johnson’s dash brought back memories of last year’s Week 15:

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Eagles Players Beau Allen and Jason Kelce Surprise Local HS with BBQ
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
B/R Introduces New Show 'Delete Your Account' Featuring Deon Buggs and Kenny Mac
No Combine, No Cry: Bob Marley's Grandson Signs NFL Contract with Redskins
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was not in attendance for his team's Week 1 matchup with the Arizona Cardinals, as he's suspended for the first four games of the year. 
Prior to kickoff, however, a Brady lookalike invaded some tailgates and hung out with Patriots fans at University of Phoenix Stadium. All of them went wild upon seeing their star quarterback's doppelganger.
Dude in Tom Brady mask at Cardinals tailgate. Almost looks real. @photochowder s://t.co/r7xkC1PEjR
Look who made it to the game... #fakebrady s://t.co/DeLJ7zPPkN
Just to be clear, the guy rocking the "#FakeBrady" shirt is wearing a (very convincing) mask.

Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Terrance Williams had a costly late-game mental lapse against the New York Giants on Sunday.
With Dallas marching sans timeouts late in the fourth quarter and trailing the Giants 20-19, the 27-year-old failed to get out of bounds after catching a pass from rookie quarterback Dak Prescott.
Some teammates, including Dez Bryant, were trying to wave him toward the sideline:
Had Williams gotten out, Dan Bailey would've had a chance to boot a game-winning field goal around 60 yards out.
Instead, the clock expired, and Big Blue held on.
Terrance Williams Awareness Rating ⬇️⬇️⬇️

#NYGvsDAL
[Vine, Twitter]
Victor Cruz is back.
During Sunday’s game against the Dallas Cowboys, the New York Giants wide receiver scored for the first time since Sept. 21, 2014.
Eli Manning threw a three-yard dart to the New Jersey native in the back of the end zone, giving Big Blue a 20-19 lead following a Randy Bullock extra point with about six minutes to go.
Naturally, Cruz broke out his classic celebration:
After Cruz's career was nearly destroyed the devastating Achilles injury he suffered in October 2014, it’s refreshing to see him back in action.
[Vine]

Trailing the New Orleans Saints 34-33 following a Seth Roberts touchdown reception with 47 seconds to go on Sunday, Oakland Raiders coach Jack Del Rio made the bold decision to go for two.
It worked.
Oakland held on to win, 35-34, but ESPN Stats & Info put a number on just how risky the move was:
Based on ESPN’s win prob. model, Raiders had 51% chance to win if they kicked PAT &amp; 44% chance if they went for 2 s://t.co/2FNbZxRwzj
Del Rio fired back:
Good thing ESPN isn't coaching the Raiders s://t.co/X6tB1YlZ4d
The coach also endorsed a tweet praising his daring call:
Jack Del Rio's two-point decision an example of a coach making a decision on what's going on in front of him, not convention.
👍 s://t.co/vuIyMzcUMz

Sterling Shepard has arrived.
Late in the first half of Sunday’s showdown with the Dallas Cowboys, the New York Giants rookie wide receiver hauled in a contested nine-yard touchdown pass from Eli Manning.
Shepard's score gave Big Blue a 13-9 lead heading into halftime.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
Watch the first 12 seconds of this video.
Now, take a moment to think about how LSU Tigers cornerback Tre'Davious White could possibly take that punt to the house.
Hit play.
After bouncing off tacklers and retreating past the Tigers' 20-yard line on the second-quarter punt, White whipped around and exploded for a 60-yard score Saturday night in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The TD helped give LSU a 27-10 lead over the Jacksonville State Gamecocks.
A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
Los Angeles Dodgers starting pitcher Rich Hill had a perfect game intact through 6.2 innings Saturday night.
Yasiel Puig made it seven.
Miami Marlins third baseman Martin Prado roped a ball to left-center field, and Puig got on his horse before making a diving grab to preserve the perfect game.
Hill was pulled after the inning for Joe Blanton, and Jeff Francoeur broke up the perfect game in the eighth.
Still, given Puig's circumstances, that catch deserves respect:
Yasiel Puig's first start in LF since June 25, 2013 (his 1st month in the majors). His only previous MLB start in left field. #Dodgers
Yasiel Puig was a minor leaguer last month.
[Twitter, Instagram]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Auburn Tigers wide receiver Kyle Davis made an incredible one-handed catch during his team’s Saturday night bout with the Arkansas State Red Wolves.
With four minutes left in the first quarter and the score knotted at 7-7 at Jordan-Hare Stadium, quarterback Sean White fired a bomb down the middle to Davis.
The freshman receiver snared it with his right hand while slicing between two defenders for a 42-yard pickup.
Here's another look:
Slow-mo close up of Auburn WR Kyle Davis one-handed catch s://t.co/8sMl9qS5eE

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
Auburn Tigers running back Kerryon Johnson used the whole field during a spectacular 47-yard touchdown run against the Arkansas State Red Wolves on Saturday.
Quarterback Sean White flipped Johnson the ball in desperation near his team's 45-yard line, and the sophomore reversed direction after evading several defenders.
At around the 10-yard line, Johnson hurdled an opponent and eventually dived for the end zone, helping Auburn take a 7-0 lead at home.
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
You probably won’t see any funny tweets from Alabama Crimson Tide offensive coordinator Lane Kiffin this week.
With 1:34 to go in the team’s 38-10 win over the Western Kentucky Hilltoppers on Saturday at Bryant-Denny Stadium, wide receiver Robert Foster fumbled at Bama's 26-yard line.
Western Kentucky’s offense then punched in a touchdown at the 46-second mark. That’s when Saban ripped into Kiffin.
After the game, the head coach still seemed heated, per the Tuscaloosa News' Cecil Hurt:
Saban on his interaction with Kiffin during the game: "There were no arguments. Those are called ass-chewings."

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Just a reminder to Michigan Wolverines head coach Jim Harbaugh: You're on national television.
During the No. 5-ranked team’s 51-14 win over the UCF Knights on Saturday, the 52-year-old appeared to pick his nose and then eat a booger.
Of course, this could’ve been a poorly timed fingernail bite. But the video seems to show otherwise.
UPDATE: Tuesday, Sept. 13 at 9:45 a.m. ET
Finding himself in the news for all of the wrong reasons, Harbaugh wanted to make a point to clear the air during a radio show appearance, via Mark Snyder of the Detroit Free Press:
I have never eaten a booger in my entire life. It might have looked like that was happening. But if you rub your nose and then you bite your fingernail, that's not eating a booger. There was no booger eaten.
For clarity here, for the record, I have never eaten a booger in my entire life.
Unless there's indisputable video evidence to prove otherwise, most fans will probably not buy Harbaugh's explanation. 
--End of Update--
[Vine, h/t SB Nation]
.@AdoreeKnows' mom was diagnosed with breast cancer last year and couldn't go to any games.

Today was a good day 🙌 s://t.co/oTlyLgicH8
Adoree' Jackson's mom missed all of last season's USC Trojans games because of breast cancer.
Now, she’s back, watching her son.
Following Saturday’s 45-7 win over the Utah State Aggies—which featured a 77-yard punt-return touchdown by Jackson—the junior’s mom shared a moment with him during a postgame interview.
We know that @AdoreeKnows.

Illinois' own Adoree' Jackson housing this punt is the @USC_Athletics #12Best Moment!

s://t.co/XB9idjnbTe
"I'm so proud of my son," she said before kissing Jackson on the cheek. "I'm so proud of you, baby."
[Pac-12 Network]
OOOF.

Nevada's kick returner screwed up a touchback to cost his team a safety against Notre Dame. s://t.co/clLJpT8KOY
Ouch.
With his Nevada Wolf Pack trailing the Notre Dame Fighting Irish 9-0 with 10:35 left in the second quarter Saturday, kick returner Ahki Muhammad had a brain fart.
The sophomore stepped out of the end zone but then took a step back in before kneeling. It was ruled a safety, extending Notre Dame's lead to 11-0.
[NBC Sports]
Alabama Crimson Tide linebacker Tim Williams channeled his inner Brock Lesnar on Saturday.
With about one minute to go in the first half of the No. 1-ranked team's second game of the year, the senior suplexed Western Kentucky Hilltoppers quarterback Mike White.
Williams slammed White well after the latter's pass and was flagged accordingly:
[Vine, Twitter]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Even in a career filled to the brim with highlights, this one stands out.
The iconic alley-oop from Kobe Bryant to Shaquille O'Neal in Game 7 of the 2000 Western Conference Finals against the Portland Trail Blazers booked the Los Angeles Lakers' trip to the NBA Finals.
They went on to defeat the Indiana Pacers in six games, giving both Shaq and Kobe their first titles. O'Neal, who had already won the 1999-2000 MVP award, also took home Finals MVP.
On Friday night, 16 years later, the Big Diesel will be inducted into the Hall of Fame.
Fallon on Westbrook's fashion: "Charles Barkley gives you a hard time about that."

Westbrook jokes, "Who?" s://t.co/ITUmBb7FPL
Russell Westbrook is not interested in criticism of his pregame fashion choices.
During Thursday's appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, the host asked the Oklahoma City Thunder superstar about Charles Barkley, who's made a habit of ribbing Westbrook for his attire:
Chuck doesn't understand Westbrook's latest pregame outfit. 😂  s://t.co/OFAtwBQDI0
When Fallon mentioned Barkley, Westbrook responded, "Who?"
The All-Star held a straight face for a few seconds but then cracked and laughed about it.
[Twitter, h/t SB Nation]
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
As he entered Staples Center for a Thursday night Drake concert, Los Angeles Lakers point guard D'Angelo Russell was peppered with taunts from fans.
"Hide your phones," they jeered in the TMZ video, referencing the 20-year-old's now infamous Snapchat scandal involving teammate Nick Young.
At first, Russell ignored the hecklers, who got loud once he stepped inside. Then, the southpaw poked his head out and traded remarks with them.
Keep in mind that this was at D-Lo's home court. Maybe those guys were Clippers fans.
[TMZ]
On Thursday, a group of NFL superstars were good sports and read their own superlatives on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.
Among the best ones were J.J. Watt's ("Most likely to say, 'Everything's bigger in Texas,' then look down and wink") and Drew Brees' ("Most likely to blow in your ear and whisper, 'You just got Breezed'").
Andy Dalton's and Joe Flacco's were also funny, but nothing topped Russell Wilson's: "Most likely to be the love child of Mario Lopez and Carlton Banks."
Upon reading it, the Seattle Seahawks quarterback immediately broke out the famous dance from The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air:
[The Tonight Show]
One day before his Hall of Fame enshrinement ceremony, Allen Iverson shed tears reflecting on the help it took to make him an all-time great.
"That's the only thing that got me here, my teammates and my coaches," he told reporters through tears, per MassLive. "That's the only reason I'm here. All those guys sacrificed their games and sacrificed different things for me to be honored like this. Without them, it wouldn't have happened."
A.I. also touched on his former coaches, dating all the way back through high school.
"Without my coaches putting me in a position to succeed—Mike Bailey did it my high school level, Coach [John] Thompson did it at the college level, and Larry Brown molded me into an MVP and a Hall of Fame player. Without those guys...I didn't do this by myself."
Of course Iverson had help. All the legends do. But The Answer wasn't half-bad himself:
Allen Iverson changed the game of basketball 🐐

He joins the @Hoophall this weekend s://t.co/WzlbmXgG44
You can watch the Friday night ceremony at 7:30 p.m. ET on NBA TV.
Iverson will be presented by Brown, Thompson and fellow Philadelphia 76ers icon Julius Erving.
[MassLive, Twitter]

Has anyone ever confused current Buffalo Bills assistant head coach Rob Ryan with rapper Lil Wayne?
Please say no.
Well, last preseason, the former New Orleans Saints defensive coordinator was nearly the victim of a robbery, according to a report from Ramon Antonio Vargas of the New Orleans Advocate. One of the would-be criminals apparently dialed the wrong number and, in a voicemail, mistakenly detailed to a federal worker the plot to rob Ryan.
"He don't got no security," the person said, per a court document obtained by Vargas. "He's just a regular football coach. ... He ain't ... big ... like [rapper] Lil Wayne or nobody ... that got bodyguards everywhere."
The Weezy connection—which certainly seems strange at first—is simple: Wayne is from NOLA.

"He ain't like Lil Wayne," the person said. "He just a ... football coach. ... Defensive coordinator of the Saints. He don't have no bodyguards ... in front his house."
The federal worker turned the voicemail over to the authorities. Police got involved.
Two suspects have since been jailed on other crimes and are awaiting trial. It was believed Ryan was one of several targets in affluent neighborhoods.
UPDATE: Wednesday, Sept. 7, at 12:10 p.m. ET
Per ESPN.com's Mike Rodak, Ryan discussed the situation with brother and Bills head coach, Rex Ryan, without going into full details:
Rex Ryan says Rob had called him about robbery plot. “But he never went into specifics. Obviously just a weird situation."
---End of update---
[New Orleans Advocate, h/t Deadspin]
Richard Jefferson just snapchatted what the Cavs' championship rings look like: s://t.co/sOaF7YRpwa
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Richard Jefferson appeared to leak the first look at his team's 2015-16 NBA championship rings.
The 36-year-old posted the above shot to his Snapchat account Tuesday before later deleting it.
As noted by Rob Perez of Fox Sports, the rings feature the Roman numeral "LII" in honor of Cleveland's 52-year sports title drought.
The jewelry also features the city's skyline.
It's a shame an iconic photo like this didn’t make the cut, though:

Or, even better, this one:

The Cavaliers will receive their rings Oct. 25 before hosting the New York Knicks.
[Twitter, h/t Fox Sports]
Tyrone Swoopes is a freight train.
Standing 6’4” and weighing 249 pounds, the Texas Longhorns senior quarterback used his size to punch in the game-winning touchdown against Notre Dame on Sunday.
It was a misdirection to the right, and once Swoopes dodged a defender in the backfield, he was gone. He soared across the goal line and solidified the 50-47 victory over the No. 10 Fighting Irish in double overtime.
Swoopes finished with 13 carries for 53 yards and three touchdowns while working with starter Shane Buechele.
[Vine]
Texas goes for the 3 point lead and...IT'S BLOCKED Notre Dame ties the game!!! s://t.co/TyucEZECWd
College football has returned with a vengeance.
On Sunday, Notre Dame pulled out a miracle following a touchdown from Texas running back D’Onta Foreman, which gave the Longhorns a 37-35 lead with 3:29 to go in regulation.
Then, the extra point got blocked.
Defensive lineman Jarron Jones sent it back, and defensive back Shaun Crawford took it to the house. The return counted for two points, tying the game at 37-37.
Madness.
If that play isn't evidence that there is a God and he loves Notre Dame then you're an idiot who doesn't get how sports work
When you think #Texas just took a lead on #NotreDame and the Irish block the PAT and return it to tie the game. s://t.co/rs9FUE9J1Z
For the 14th time tonight, everyone covering Notre Dame-Texas just ripped up their game stories.

Despite the loss, this cartwheel by Equanimeous St. Brown still gets a 10:10. s://t.co/wtfUsgxB1X
Notre Dame wide receiver Equanimeous St. Brown's second-quarter touchdown against the Texas Longhorns on Saturday made for one incredible picture.
But the internet couldn’t leave it be.
Here are some reactions to the acrobatic score, which looked like some sort of breakdance move:
#NDvsTex s://t.co/2pZJjVc4Jg
B-Boying with Equanimeous St. Brown
#NDvsTex s://t.co/9Hfl8BI66f
Equanimeous St. Brown's starring in the reboot. s://t.co/yRz10q5dFW
That Equanimeous St. Brown touchdown: s://t.co/KODW2Hz4Zy

Texas Longhorns quarterback Tyrone Swoopes dished out some punishment during his second-quarter touchdown run against Notre Dame on Sunday.
After the senior broke a 14-14 tie heading into halftime, he inadvertently knocked over a cameraman near the end zone before celebrating with his teammates.
Hopefully that footage is worth some bruises.
[Vine]
Wrong place, wrong time.
Early in the second quarter of the Texas Longhorns’ showdown with the No. 10 Notre Dame Fighting Irish on Sunday, a man on the Longhorns sideline got drilled with an errant pass from Fighting Irish quarterback Malik Zaire.
He tried to catch it, but the ball was thrown too hard. The poor guy took it off the chin, which knocked off his headset and sent him to the floor.
Here’s hoping he’s OK.
[Vine]
Note: Highlight starts around the 45-second mark.
This hurts to watch.
Imagine how much it hurt to experience.
During Puerto Rico FC's 3-0 NASL loss to Miami FC on Saturday night, defender Ramon Martin Del Campo tried to contest a shot from Dario Cvitanich.
It went poorly.
The shot found the net, and Del Campo found the pole.
Thankfully—what a glorious invention, those athletic cups—the 23-year-old appeared to be OK and was seen later in the match.
[YouTube, h/t SB Nation]
A photo posted by Ayesha Curry (@ayeshacurry)
Somewhere, Drake is smiling.
On Saturday, the line “Chef Curry with the shot” gained a newer, truer meaning when Ayesha Curry swooshed a jumper against her two-time MVP husband during a pickup game in China.
(Reminder: She gets paid to cook.)
Ayesha celebrated after the bucket and then ran over to guard Steph on the other end.
A photo posted by Wardell Curry (@stephencurry30)
It’s like a real-life version of Love & Basketball.
A photo posted by Ayesha Curry (@ayeshacurry)
[Ayesha Curry]
THEY RUSHED THE FIELD s://t.co/eTOJ4cvcVT
Those poor Kansas Jayhawks fans.
After Saturday's 55-6 win over the Rhode Island Rams, the Jayhawks football team's first triumph since Nov. 8, 2014, students and fans stormed the field—an understandable catharsis following such a drought.
The 665-day streak is over: #kufball earns first victory since 2014 season with 55-6 rout of Rhode Island. More coming.
The euphoria was short-lived. The public-address announcer got in their ears:
KU students rush the field. Are told by the PA to go back "for the respect of this program."
Wow. #kufball fans rush the field, and PA guy reprimands. "This is a new era in Kansas football, an era in which you should expect to win."
Eventually, according to Matt Galloway of the Topeka Capital-Journal, the admonishment worked:
The verbal lashing from the PA announcer seems to have worked. Student section returning to their seats, heading to exits. Posts safe.
Ah, sweet victory.

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
A 17-3 lead over the USC Trojans on Saturday night was not good enough for the Alabama Crimson Tide.
With less than two minutes to go in the first half, Alabama defensive backs Ronnie Harrison and Deionte Thompson got into what appeared to be an intense exchange on the sideline.
Linebacker Reuben Foster soon joined in and grabbed Harrison.
Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban tried to diffuse the situation and could be seen on the television broadcast telling the players to "settle down" on the bench.
It's unclear what the source of the altercation was, but it was clear these guys were heated.
    
UPDATE: Sunday, Sept. 4, at 12 a.m. ET
After throttling USC, 52-6, the Alabama players seem to harbor no hard feelings. Here's a tweet from Harrison:
We competitors, sometimes we wanna win so bad our heads clash. Still got love for my brother @EJackson_4 💯💯💯
Winning cures all.
---End of update---

Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Cavaliers Roll Out Red Carpet for Easy Kevin Durant Dunk in Game 1 of NBA Finals
This is powerful.
During its first series of the 2016 college football season, Nebraska intentionally neglected to send out a punter against Fresno State and took a delay-of-game penalty.
Over the summer, Cornhuskers senior Sam Foltz died in a car crash along with former Michigan State punter Mike Sadler. The two were returning from instructing a kicking camp in Wisconsin.
Nebraska’s Twitter account posted this after the emotional moment, which resulted in cheers from fans and tears from players:
We had to take a delay of game, weren't able to get all 11 guys out to punt in time.

Missing one of them. s://t.co/o3mzXQZqlO
Before the game, the Cornhuskers made a point of rallying around the memory of their former teammate:
We play for each other.

We play for Foltz.

Family. s://t.co/W41M2k4NMU
[Big Ten, Nebraska Football]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Nick Saban Is the King of College Football but the Challengers Are Coming
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Delete Your Account, Episode 2
Meet 'Billy the Wonder Kid': the 7-Year-Old Football Phenomenon
Surfing Dog Does Shreds the Waves to Help Kids & Veterans
Which 2018 QB Is the Most Clutch When the Game Is on the Line?
The Dark Horse Quarterbacks You MUST-KNOW in the 2018 Class
Meet Kalen Ballage: the Monster RB Coming for Saquon Barkley's Top Spot
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Steve Spurrier is a legend at Florida for two reasons:
On Saturday, a third reason was born when Spurrier broke out sprinter Usain Bolt's signature pose at midfield.
The 71-year-old was Florida’s honorary "Mr. Two Bits" before the team hosted Massachusetts on Saturday night. He was on hand because his name was recently added to the Gators’ home field.
Here’s hoping Spurrier takes the field more often.
[Vine, Twitter]
A photo posted by Cleveland Cavaliers (@cavs)
This is a Hall of Fame corn maze.
Months after the Cleveland Cavaliers rode LeBron James to their first NBA title, Ohio’s Mapleside Farms showed off a wildly detailed corn maze honoring the King.
There are three sections:
The Cavaliers reposted the image on their Instagram and accurately called it "championship-level.”
[Instagram]
Hmm, the Cowboys' new slogan sounds familiar .... What are your thoughts??? #DoYourJobGate
 s://t.co/C10NZtsJKb s://t.co/HnvWyoOEyz
Deflategate just ended.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have its replacement: "#DoYourJobGate."
On Wednesday, New England Patriots superstar Rob Gronkowski called out the Dallas Cowboys for jacking his team’s slogan. As Cameron DaSilva of Fox Sports noted, the Pats actually have the phrase trademarked.
Gronk noticed and put the ‘Boys on blast.
Your thoughts, Bill Belichick?

[Rob Gronkowski]
DeMarcus Cousins is usually the one giving referees headaches.
On Wednesday, DraftKings flipped the script and put Boogie in stripes after some training from an accredited ref.
The NBA’s technical fouls leader in 2015-16 then hopped into a pickup game, where he drew the ire of players for being too whistle-happy in this parody. That’s when they did the unthinkable and clapped at him.
How could they?
Cousins then went wild with his whistle and handed out more technicals than the players could handle.
[DraftKings]
Phil Mickelson Can Break a 150-year-old Record at Golf's Oldest Major This Year
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Move Over Jocks, Scholarships Are Being Offered for Video Games
The Mountain from Game of Thrones Is a Real Life Lifting Legend
Gatorade Player of the Year: Who Takes the Ultimate Honor in HS Athletics?
Watch Gatorade Surprise the 2017 Boy's HS Track & Field Athlete of the Year
Teachers and Students Faceoff in School's Final Lesson: Hardwood 101
DeAngelo Williams Is Latest NFL Star to Swap Gridiron for Pro Wrestling Ring
Drop the Clubs and Lace Up Your Cleats for FootGolf
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf Has Been Schooling Opponents Like This for Decades
First Fan-Run Football Team Is Real-Life Mashup of Madden and Fantasy
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
Wednesday is Kobe Bryant Day in Los Angeles, so this is only right.
In honor of the retired Lakers superstar, B/R placed a goat head on the Black Mamba, honoring the five-time champion's status as one of the greatest of all time.
Jon Jones hanging out with Snoop Dogg last night showing him how to throw a spinning elbow. s://t.co/RODndCXkTb
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
While a bout with Anthony Johnson could be in the works, per UFC Unfiltered (via Fox Sports' Damon Martin), suspended UFC fighter Jon Jones spent Tuesday night sparring with a different opponent: Snoop Dogg.
The D-O-double-G invited Jones into his dressing room prior to a concert with Wiz Khalifa in Albuquerque, New Mexico, per TMZ.
There, the two engaged in a friendly slap-boxing exchange, and Snoop was infatuated by the spinning elbow Jones showed off.
After Jones gave the hip-hop icon a tutorial on how to use the move, they posed for a picture.
"The champ with the champ," Jones said.
[Chamatkar Sandhu, TMZ]
Rosters for M's games s://t.co/43VeXhfPCJ
M's Games Medal Count s://t.co/XFhov8nnfA
The Seattle Mariners have caught Olympic fever.
Over the past few days, the team has run an M's Games competition, which includes basketball, pool, golf, fungo golf, foosball, tape toss, water balloon and pingpong.
(Note: Fungo golf is played by using a bat and trying to hit a baseball off certain objects. Here's an example.)
Players and coaches were divided into teams, and as of Tuesday it was a close competition:
Events for M's Games s://t.co/8WhCkwQBaF
Here are some highlights from the Mariners Games Twitter account:
Breaking News: Nellie Cruz  has been eliminated from Tape Tossing competition for not wearing his required team jersey (Black) #ByeBoomstick
Fungo Golf competitors for the M's Games. #Stottlemyre #Bogar #Acta #Hampton #Prieto s://t.co/6vvDDoAAIQ
Stottlemyre putts into Robbie's sign. #HeSucked Finished 4th s://t.co/McTjQxfykf

Please stop making fun of the Harden shoe. It looks like its already been roasted enough s://t.co/Kxc2SbLtef
Remember when the internet ripped Stephen Curry's Curry 2 Low Under Armour shoe?
James Harden was next.
On Tuesday, citing images apparently leaked by SneakersSpy, Sneaker Watch's John McFarlan previewed what appears to be the Houston Rockets star's Triple Black colorway of his first signature shoe, which will reportedly debut in December.
Let the roast begin in 3...2...1...
That Harden shoe is infinitely worse than the Curry shoe
Did I miss something or are we really not going to flambé James Harden’s new shoe? s://t.co/gidEfLRHUe
James Harden has better personal style than that for those to be his signature Adidas shoe 😂
If that's James Harden shoe idk if I can be a fan anymore
When did James Harden sign a shoe deal with Carhartt s://t.co/lqsbPR5LW8
James Harden's shoe makes the Currys look like Jordan 6s
are these harden shoes real? They straight look like the cheapest shoe on the back to school rack at payless
James Harden’s new shoe, perfect for wabbit hunting. s://t.co/QuDKSnUppC
Finally Harden makes a basketball shoe for me, a waiter at Chili's. s://t.co/Etw6Ihl0bQ
James Harden new signature shoe looks like it was inspired by a Dickens novel. s://t.co/8ONBkwAq4o
Sure, it's not the best photo in the world, and it probably doesn't do the design justice:
...I think that photo doesn't do James Harden's shoe justice. I'll wait to judge them when they are on the court.
That Harden shoe better look *waaaaaaaaay* better at a different angle otherwise I’m probably done with Adidas’ basketball designs
But still, the overwhelming reaction has been an emphatic thumbs-down.

Michael Phelps' $2.53M home will give you house envy!
s://t.co/tbvvaLXnQY
Olympic legend Michael Phelps is living in luxury.
In December, the winningest athlete in the history of the Games purchased a $2.53 million home in Paradise Valley, Arizona, near his training base for Rio de Janeiro.
Now, after taking home five gold medals and one silver, the newly retired Phelps will live there permanently while serving as an assistant coach at Arizona State University.
According to Catherine Reagor of the Arizona Republic, the 6,010-square-foot house features five bedrooms and six-and-a-half bathrooms.
Oh, and (shockingly) there's a massive pool.
Check out individual pictures of the house via For The Win's Andrew Joseph, who uncovered them from High Res Media.
[USA Today]
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Zavell Perry takes tumbling to another level.
Floor mats aren't enough of a challenge for the acrobat, so he instead leaps over cars and fences and off houses in the House of Highlights reel above.
Most humans can't jump high or spin around with ease, but he can do both simultaneously. Perhaps it's time for the International Olympic Committee to consider adding parkour to the fold.
Check out his Instagram page for more displays of gravity-defying agility.

Song: "I Don’t Care"
Artist: Moosh & Twist featuring Myles Parrish
Moosh & Twist's new album Growing Pains is out now!
United States Olympic gymnastics star Aly Raisman did a segment for Yahoo Sports about what she looks for in a date.
To summarize: Zac Efron is off-limits, and Rob Gronkowski, though he's a partier, will be allowed to try on her gold medal.
At the end of the video, the 22-year-old received a date invitation from Oakland Raiders tight end Colton Underwood, and she accepted with a smile.
The connection is 2008 gold medalist Shawn Johnson, who is friends with Raisman and married to Raiders long snapper Andrew East.
Raisman and Underwood exchanged tweets afterward:
@Colt3FIVE thanks for the sweet video.... looking forward to meeting you :)
Anytime! Looking forward to meeting you too. Safe travels back, see you soon! s://t.co/vWRhhqR5up
[Twitter, h/t Yahoo Sports]
Despite his feud with WWE, UFC featherweight champion Conor McGregor has made his affinity for Vince McMahon known.
"[The CEO] is a f--king legend," he told reporters before UFC 202, per Marc Raimondi of MMA Fighting. "What he's been able to do with that bunch of dweebs he has over there at the moment has been phenomenal, and I respect him for that."
Before his victory over Nate Diaz on Saturday, the Irishman honored Vinny Mac's patented strut:
It's not the first time McGregor has paid homage to McMahon (notice he's singing the CEO's entrance song):
McGregor defeated Diaz by majority decision.
[YouTube, Streamable]

Everyone wants a piece of Stephen Curry—even his mouthguards.
On Sunday, a game-used mouthguard from the two-time reigning MVP was auctioned off for a whopping $3,190 through SCP Auctions, according to ESPN.com’s Darren Rovell.
The chew toy mouthguard features Curry’s name and the Golden State Warriors logo.
I don't let anyone see my disgusting-looking night mouthguard. Someone just bought Steph Curry's for $3190. 
#Why s://t.co/f7mDGgLIQ0
Per Rovell, SCP Auctions acquired it "from a fan who picked it up off the floor near the Golden State Warriors bench" after a road game in December.
Once again: $3,190.
[ESPN.com]
Can't make this up. @brandonthomas6 hit a grand slam tonight that smashed a windshield. That's his own truck. s://t.co/B1ZqFUyfSe
You have to feel for Gateway Grizzlies outfielder Brandon Thomas.
On Sunday, the Frontier League player smashed a grand slam in a 17-6 win over the Joliet Slammers, which likely felt great for the former eighth-round pick out of Georgia Tech (2013).
Until he realized that he nailed his own car.
According to broadcaster Sam Levitt, Thomas’ four-RBI blast connected with the windshield of his own truck.
Here's a video of the shot:
The before and after from last night lol still can't believe this really happened s://t.co/nlBK1tfFpo
The good news is that Thomas said it was worth it, and a local radio station is having the glass fixed:
Definitely worth it!!  s://t.co/SDpC5CcX2m
@CNN @Cut4 @GatewayGrizzlie @SammyLev huge thanks @ Joy FM 99.1 Saint Louis for volunteering to fix the windshield. Very nice of them.

Mark Sanchez is still a California kid.
The former USC star, who was born in Long Beach, went undercover as a Santa Monica street guitarist in a recent video with DraftKings.
Clearly no stranger to the strings, the NFL veteran took requests from people of all ages.
Even as he competes for the Denver Broncos’ starting gig, Sanchez went mostly unrecognized. The first guy in the video seemed to realize who he was dealing with, but few others (if any) did.
C'mon, everyone—it's the Sanchize we're talking about.
[DraftKings]
Don't know about you but I think Brock Lesnar gave Randy Orton a pretty purposeful downward elbow to the head here. s://t.co/ccgV3mVvPZ
Is Brock Lesnar still in UFC mode?
During his WWE match against Randy Orton at SummerSlam on Sunday night, The Beast opened up a nasty gash on the top of his opponent’s head.
Blood poured out onto the mat—and not fake blood. The match ended by TKO as medical personnel tended to Orton.
Here's video of the team working on Orton after the match:
It was Lesnar’s elbow that caused the apparent injury, and it didn't look scripted:
Yah, wrestling is fake, but those elbow punches Brock Lesnar gave Randy Orton tonight were 💯 legit. #SummerSlam s://t.co/W6cxYe1lws



In  the heat of battle, this could've been accidental.
But Orton recently called out Lesnar for failing a drug test before his victory over Mark Hunt at UFC 200 on July 9. 
Could that be the source of something more? Some fans and media members think so.
@Idhart absolutely.. I saw the elbow immediately and was almost certain it was purposeful
The conspiracy theorist in me thinks maybe those were shoot elbows in response to Orton mocking Lesnar's failed drug test. #WWE #SummerSlam
@WWE #Summerslam finish was hard to figure out. Felt like @BrockLesnar went off script and did this to @RandyOrton s://t.co/uOSgqkUp2O
Don't know about you but I think Brock Lesnar gave Randy Orton a pretty purposeful downward elbow to the head here. s://t.co/ccgV3mVvPZ
@WWE if @BrockLesnar went off script as revenge for @RandyOrton calling him out for doping then #brocklesnar should be fired #fireLesnar
Here's WWE.com's update on Orton's status:
WWE.com has learned that Randy Orton has received 10 staples to close a laceration on his forehead following the brutal assault by Brock Lesnar that resulted in a TKO at SummerSlam.
[h/t For The Win]
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
Last Week Tonight host John Oliver unloaded a full arsenal of insults against American swimmer Ryan Lochte on Sunday.
The comedian took all kinds of shots at the Olympian, who last week was at the heart of a scandal that involved the fabrication of a late-night "robbery" in Rio de Janeiro.
Oliver called Lochte "the purest form of the chemical element bro" and took jabs at his intelligence. He signed off by saying farewell to "America's idiot sea cow."
Yikes.
[h/t Awful Announcing]
So close, Justin Upton.
With his Detroit Tigers looking to overcome a 3-2 deficit in the ninth inning of Saturday's bout with the Boston Red Sox, the 28-year-old outfielder blasted a ball to center field.
In fairness, it looked gone. But the ball stayed in the park.
As Upton trotted around first base celebrating the would-be dinger, Jackie Bradley Jr. fired the ball in to second.
Upton made it just in time, but the double was for naught—closer Craig Kimbrel struck out Casey McGehee one batter later.
[MLB, h/t For The Win]

Mandakhnaran Ganzorig's Mongolian wrestling coach was so unhappy with a decision that gave Uzbekistan's Ikhtiyor Navruzov a bronze medal in the men's freestyle 65-kilogram division Sunday that he stripped down to his underwear.
This is not a joke.
According to ESPN.com's Wayne Drehs, the coach was joined by another, who shed only his shirt. Together, they heaved their clothes at officials in protest:







And now the other Mongolian coach took his pants off. They are refusing to leave the mat. This is incredible.
Take a look at this play-by-play from Adam Kilgore of the Washington Post, who described the ruling as "incredibly shady":
This is something: A Mongolian coach ripped off his shirt and shoes after an incredibly shady last-minute decision gave bronze to an Uzbek.
A true sentence: I asked the Mongolian press attache, "Was that the coach who took off his shirt and pants, or just shirt?"
The crowd loved it:
The crowd is chanting, "Mon-go-lia!" as both coaches refuse to leave the mat, one shirtless and one stripped to his underwear.
Brazilian national police had to escort both Mongolia coaches off. The one put his pants back on. Both shirtless. And the crowd goes wild.

Meb Keflezighi slipped as he was crossing the men's marathon finish line and played it off with PUSH-UPS! s://t.co/7GXwohRncf
Meb Keflezighi is the oldest American Olympic marathon runner ever, but he's still going strong.
It's probably because of those body-weight workouts.
After falling as he crossed the finish line Sunday, the 41-year-old kept it lighthearted and knocked out a few pushups.
Here are a couple of shots of the stumble-turned-pump session:


Keflezighi finished 33rd in a field of 155 participants with a time of 2 hours, 16 minutes and 46 seconds. 
[NBC]
David Ortiz's farewell tour has been fun.
On Saturday, that continued when the Boston Red Sox slugger handed out pieces of gum to young fans sitting near the on-deck circle before stepping to the plate. He also took a selfie.
Then, Big Papi broke a 1-1 tie in the fifth inning with a two-run home run against Detroit Tigers starter Daniel Norris.
The big fly pushed Ortiz into elite company—he became just the third Red Sox player with 1,500 RBI after Carl Yastrzemski and Ted Williams.
Boston won 3-2.
[MLB]

The latest chapter of the Conor McGregor vs. Brock Lesnar saga has arrived, and the last man to speak out on it? None other than the Beast Incarnate.
The former NCAA Division I heavyweight wrestling champion, former UFC heavyweight champion and former WWE world heavyweight champion had a lot more to say than usual.
None of it nice.
“I take s--ts bigger than that kid,” Lesnar told WWE podcaster Sam Roberts (transcription via Jose Youngs of FanSided). “Come on, guys. I know you guys all play f--king video games, and you live in this f--king false sense of reality and s--t. I’m 200 and f--cking 90 pounds, all right; this guy's 145 pounds, and that’s if he’s lucky and gets up and f--king eats his Wheaties."
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
The vitriol comes from two weeks back, when McGregor had a controversial response to a reporter's question about whether he was angling for a gig with WWE. According to Cody Williams of FanSided, he called the majority of the current talent "p-----s" and singled out Lesnar by saying "fair play to Brock, he got in a fight, but at the end of the day, he’s juiced up to the f--king eyeballs, so how can I respect that?" 
I didn't mean no disrespect to the @wwe fans. What I meant to say was that I'd slap the head off your entire roster. And twice on Sunday's.
He later added to that on Twitter, which resulted in wave of backlash from past and present WWE wrestlers, including Roman Reigns, AJ Styles and Ric Flair. McGregor would later double down (warning: more NSFW language) on the criticism in another interview.

Lesnar defended himself and cosigned the notion for his co-workers:
If Conor McGregor wants to say some s--t to me and get his name out there more than he already has, by dropping my name, I got about 10 f--king words for him. Come here face-to-face Conor and say it to my face. Otherwise leave me and the f--king WWE out of it because I came to your arena and kicked ass. Now if you want and you’re so f--king tough, come to our arena and try to kick some ass.
Any continuation of McGregor's feud with the WWE likely hinges on the results of his UFC 202 fight with Nate Diaz on Saturday, given that the entire purpose was probably to attract attention to the event. Lesnar, meanwhile, has a busy schedule as well and will face Randy Orton in the main event of SummerSlam on Sunday.
It will be interesting to see what kind of response McGregor's performance—win or lose—gets from the WWE roster.
A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
Dude.
The United States will face off against Spain in the Rio Olympics men's basketball semifinals on Friday, so Bleacher Report gave the matchup some treatment from The Big Lebowski.
While the Spanish team might be confident, the Americans will look to bring a world of pain (Warning: Link contains NSFW language) to the contest and advance to the title game.
[Instagram]
Race walker Yohann Diniz of #FRA collapsed, but heroically managed to finish the race. s://t.co/5qbXjgsAm1 s://t.co/IaHfnK0AH1
Nothing stopped Yohann Diniz on Friday.
During the men's 50-kilometer event, the French race walker—who has dealt with stomach issues in the past, as relayed by Brian Blickenstaff of Vice Sports—appeared to defecate (warning: graphic image and NSFW language in links) but continued on in the race.
Another angle shows that Diniz could have been bleeding:

Later, Diniz passed out.
Upon regaining consciousness, the 38-year-old gutted out an eighth-place finish.
[NBC]
According to CNN and the Red Cross, the flood that's hit Louisiana is "the worst natural disaster to strike the United States since Hurricane Sandy four years ago."
LSU football players are doing what they can to help.
On Thursday, the Tigers and head coach Les Miles visited with families affected by the devastating flood. They signed autographs, took pictures and talked with the victims:
.@LSUfootball made impact today in a way only they can. Put smiles on faces of people who've lost it all in flood. s://t.co/jOng1XKynY
Sometimes just lifting a spirit makes a difference. I see you @bferguson50 @LSUfootball #unBroken #PrayforLouisiana s://t.co/zqNj4mUNDZ
"I just feel for these people. It's so sad to understand what they're going through right now," quarterback Brandon Harris said, per Brian Holland of BRProud.com. "Just to be able to come here and put a smile on someone's face is important to me."
[Facebook, Twitter; h/t For The Win]
Here's a look at The Ford Center, the 12,000 seat stadium where Cowboys will practice, Frisco HS teams will play. s://t.co/fmq2yWr13V
The Dallas Cowboys were far from frugal in building their new practice facility.
Shocking, eh?
In May, owner Jerry Jones confirmed that The Star would cost $1.5 billion, per Clarence Hill of the Fort Worth Star-Telegram:
Correction: the area of Frisco where the Cowboys facility is being constructed is the $5 b. The Cowboys headquarters and retail is $1.5b
On Friday, media members got a look at the Ford Center practice field, which features 12,000 seats and a massive videoboard.
The Cowboys will share it with Frisco, Texas, high school football teams, hence the steep number of seats.
Here are a few more looks inside the near-stadium facility:
View from the press box at the Ford Center. #Cowboys #TheStar s://t.co/1kvKJ9wj67
From the press box at 12,000 seat Ford Center in Frisco #FISD #Frisco #Cowboys #TheStar s://t.co/J3zLY3pkAo
the new home of the @dallascowboys is sweet... @nbcdfw s://t.co/LZRYK9QCLa
[Twitter, h/t Fox Sports]
James Harden has addressed his two biggest criticisms this week at the Drew League—flopping and defense.
Sort of.
On Sunday, the Houston Rockets star had words with a heckling fan about feigning contact for whistles.
Three days later, Harden inexplicably closed out on his own teammate after hitting him with a smooth up-and-under pass near the rim. As the guy rose for the triple, the Beard ran back on defense and leaped into the air with both hands raised.
Could this have been a strange attempt at the whole run-back-before-the-shot-goes-in phenomenon?
Even so, it's odd.
[Streamable, h/t Uproxx]

The 2016 Olympic Games are in full swing, giving our list of top clutch performances a nice boost with some international flavor.
With the Premier League back in action and Major League Baseball also trucking on, this list is chock-full of clutch performances by some of the best athletes in the world.
Stick around and explore the top clutch performances of the week.

Who: Boston Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz
When: August 15 vs. Cleveland Indians
David Ortiz doesn't need to retire. The 40-year-old slugger is on pace for another solid year, notching 27 home runs, 93 RBI and hitting for an average of .312.
But Ortiz is leaving the sport, and his farewell season continued when the Red Sox took on the Cleveland Indians on August 15.
Home run No. 27 came against the Tribe, as Ortiz lifted a go-ahead, two-run shot in the sixth inning. Relying on his power, Big Papi turned on Indians pitcher Josh Tomlin. The blast secured a 3-2 win for the Red Sox, giving them their 65th win of the 2016 season.
Ortiz is still a clutch asset for the Red Sox, regardless of his age. That's just one reason why the people of Boston love this man.

Who: Usain Bolt
When: August 14, 2016 Olympics
Usain Bolt is ridiculous. The world's fastest man was at it again, toying with his fellow runners before blowing by them and winning gold in the men's 100-meter dash.
This was a memorable achievement for the greatest sprinter in Olympic history. Bolt's gold-medal win marked the third consecutive time he's achieved such a feat in the 100-meter competition, making him the only man to ever do so.
No one is faster than Bolt. And in a world full of superhuman athletes, watching him shred a field with ease nothing short of scary.

Who: Juan Martin del Potro
When: August 13, 2016 Olympics vs. Rafael Nadal
Juan Martin del Potro's remarkable Olympic Games continued against Rafael Nadal in the men's tennis semifinals.
After conquering Novak Djokovic in the opening round, Del Potro was able to find his revolutionary forehand and a strong serve once again against Nadal. It wasn't easy—playing Nadal never is. But Del Potro managed to work his way to a 5-7, 6-4, 7-6 (5) win after dropping the first set.
He would automatically medal with the win, despite losing to eventual champion Andy Murray in the final round. Needless to say, Del Potro's clutch gene was in overdrive during the Rio Games.

Who: Liverpool midfielder Philippe Coutinho
When: August 14 vs. Arsenal
Liverpool won their fourth straight Premier League opener over Arsenal in dramatic fashion, with a 4-3 effort on August 14.
Midfielder Philippe Coutinho was a leading force, tying the game with a phenomenal free-kick in the 45th minute of play. He would follow that effort up, netting another beautiful tap-in effort during the 56th minute.
Coutinho's masterful touch and clutch positioning was enough to send Liverpool past Arsenal. The good news doesn't stop there. Based on what we saw, it already appears the Liverpool midfielder is poised for a tremendous year.

Who: New York Yankees pitcher Chad Green
When: August 15 vs. Toronto Blue Jays
It's a new day in the Bronx. Most of the stars the Yankees brought with them into the 2010s are either gone or on their way out. The spending game isn't what it used to be, and smaller market teams are contending more and more. So the Yankees are finally attempting to rebuild.
Pitcher Chad Green could be part of that rebuild. He took to the hill on August 15 and silenced the Toronto Blue Jays. Barreling through the Jays lineup, Green struck out 11 batters in six innings. The Yanks would ride his arm to a 1-0 victory.
The rookie pitcher looked sharp at every turn, giving the Yankees something they desperately needed: a glimpse into the future.

Who: Andy Murray
When: August 14, 2016 Olympics vs. Juan Martin del Potro
Not even fate could stop Andy Murray from taking down Juan Martin del Potro in the gold-medal match of the 2016 Rio Games.
Murray was his usual brilliant self, keeping the ball in play, driving shots home with blistering power and playing the net like a true pro. His style overwhelmed Del Potro—who was running on tired legs.
At the end of a tough match, Murray prevailed with a four-set victory. This clutch performance marks his second consecutive gold medal at the Olympic Games and another big tournament win after capturing the Wimbledon crown earlier this summer.

Who: Chelsea striker Diego Costa
When: August 15 vs. West Ham
Diego Costa wasn't going to allow West Ham to tie Chelsea in his club's first Premier League venture. The talented striker found the back of the net in the 89th minute of game action from 20 yards out.
The Blues are looking to prove they can rebound from a disastrous 2015-16 campaign in which they finished 10th. That's not the team we're accustomed to seeing, and Costa made sure a trend of disappointment wouldn't steal headlines early on.
The crowd at Stamford Bridge went ballistic as Costa celebrated his late-game heroics. His clutch gene was definitely pumping on overdrive against the Hammers.

Who: Simon Biles
When: August 16, 2016 Olympics
Simon Biles had herself quite an Olympic Games. Racking up four gold medals and one bronze, Biles firmly established herself as the face of American gymnastics.
"Biles arguably established herself as the greatest gymnast of all time by winning her fifth medal," Bleacher Report's Mike Chiari noted.
She was poised and showcased grace, and in the end, she constantly performed at a level rarely seen in sports.
You can't do anything but heap an immeasurable amount of praise onto Biles. She was spectacular in Rio and turned many mainstream sports fans into diehard supporters of her cause.

Who: Los Angeles Dodgers second baseman Chase Utley
When: August 16 vs. Philadelphia Phillies
Chase Utley returned to Philadelphia with thoughts of destruction on his mind. Suiting up with the Los Angeles Dodgers, Utley went bonkers at the dish—as did the rest of the Dodgers, pounding the Phillies by a final score of 15-5.
For his part, Utley launched two home runs into the night sky, including a grand slam. His five-RBI performance was a reminder of how good he was during his heyday in Philly.
Supporters of the Phillies and Dodgers both got to witness a vintage, clutch Utley performance. And man, was it pretty.

Who: United States Olympic Team
When: Throughout the 2016 Olympics
The United States should be proud of what they've achieved thus far at the 2016 Olympics. Looking at the medal count, the U.S. is so far ahead of every other country that it's not even close.
According to NBC Sports, the U.S. has 94 total medals, including 31 gold. The next closest to that count is China with 19 golds and 54 overall medals.
These games have been all about American dominance, from gymnastics to swimming and beyond. Clearly, few counties in the world are capable of cultivating as many elite athletes as the United States.
 
All stats, box scores and information via Sports-Reference.com, unless noted otherwise.
Chase Utley's return to Citizens Bank Park was memorable.
The Los Angeles Dodgers second baseman was back in town Tuesday to face his former team, the Philadelphia Phillies, for the first time since getting traded last summer. He had spent the first 12-plus years of his career in Philly.

After belting a solo home run in the fifth inning, Utley received a curtain call from the crowd.
Two innings later, with the Dodgers up 9-2, Utley bombed a grand slam.
And he got another curtain call.
After the game, Utley divulged what the game meant to him, per Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times:
Chase Utley confessed that tonight was "something I've been looking forward to for a long time," a stunning admission, as far as Utley goes.
The Dodgers won 15-5, but Phillies fans probably weren't too torn up about the outcome.
[MLB]
During the top of the fifth inning of Tuesday night's home contest against the Milwaukee Brewers, Chicago Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo made a jaw-dropping catch.
Brewers outfielder Keon Broxton skied a ball into the seats in foul territory, but instead of giving up on it, Rizzo stepped onto a concrete ledge, reached into the crowd and snared it.
As fans went nuts, Rizzo trotted back to his position with a look of amazement.
Chicago won 4-1.
[MLB]
Our sides theme of the wedding was @Yg_Trece! s://t.co/FDPfeuIsZB
This family's dedication to Paul George can't be questioned.
On Tuesday, Twitter user Braden Norris posted a picture of what appears to be a group of his family members rocking all the Indiana Pacers star's jerseys for a wedding theme.
PG-13 caught wind of it and expressed his appreciation:
This is love right here! RT @BradoThePotato: Our sides theme of the wedding was @Yg_Trece! s://t.co/y5Uxwn9Xco
@BradoThePotato thanks bro congrats on the wedding
 He even posted the picture on Instagram:
A photo posted by Paul George (@ygtrece)
The fan, whose account is full of George-themed posts, was pumped.
Im the biggest Paul George fan in the world. No argument. Someone argue with me. There isn't one. So don't do it. Do it.
THE 🐐 TWEETED ME s://t.co/3wlhV8iGGp
I have peaked.
[Twitter, Instagram]
That one had to hurt.
On the first hurdle in a men's 110-meter semifinal at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics on Tuesday night, Haiti's Jeffrey Julmis went down hard.
😂😭 (h/t @br_uk) s://t.co/hqlMVyciCQ
The 28-year-old, who was born in Florida, simply didn't get enough height.
To his credit, Julmis got up and crossed the finish line. According to the Games' website, though, he was disqualified.
[NBC Sports]
Simone Biles can really do it all #Rio2016
s://t.co/oZVyk4v8lW
Simone Biles would've beaten Zach LaVine.
On Tuesday, Bleacher Report remixed the 19-year-old American gymnastics star's floor routine from the Rio de Janeiro Olympics with Aaron Gordon's celebrated 2016 NBA Slam Dunk Contest, which included the Orlando Magic mascot.
That's an easy 10.

LeBron James continued to show love for his home state Tuesday by sending 5,000 Ohio kids and their families to an amusement park.
The trip to Cedar Point came as part of LBJ's "I Promise" initiative, per TMZ. It's the same program that teamed up with the University of Akron to sponsor full scholarships for over 1,000 students.
Sure, James delivered the Cleveland Cavaliers their first championship in June.
But, as he's proved in recent years, the King is determined to give back off the court too.
[h/t TMZ]
Seattle Seahawks star safety Earl Thomas hits hard.
Really, really hard.
On Tuesday, fellow Legion of Boom member Richard Sherman gushed over his teammate and even went as far as to say he’s successfully taken down a martial arts legend.
Here's the beginning of Sherman's quote, per ESPN.com's Sheil Kapadia:
Earl Thomas is kind of like either the Dos Equis guy or Chuck Norris. He is a guy that is exactly who people think he is and better than people who think he's the best. ...Nobody watches practice harder. Practice watches Earl Thomas. Earl Thomas does not watch practice.
The All-Pro cornerback went on to list some of the impressive feats he's seen Thomas perform over the years. 
“I’ve seen him bend blades of grass. I’ve seen him catch footballs by looking at them,” Sherman told reporters (via the Tacoma News Tribune). “Many things—the list is long about the things Earl Thomas has done. I’ve seen him beat Chuck Norris up.”
No shame in that, Chuckster.
[YouTube]
Carmelo Anthony is really embracing Rio de Janeiro.
On Monday, the New York Knicks superstar spent what seemed to be a good chunk of time in the favelas. He had a graffiti artist create a mural of himself and then hopped into a pickup game with a group of kids.
A photo posted by DIME on UPROXX (@dimemagazine)
"I discovered that what most people call creepy, scary, and spooky, I call comfy, cozy, and home," Melo captioned an Instagram picture.
A photo posted by Carmelo Anthony (@carmeloanthony)
This was a bit of a bold move from the four-time Olympian. As Daniel Popper of the New York Daily News pointed out, the favelas "are the notoriously violent and impoverished slums tucked into the hills of Rio.”
While connecting with his fans, Anthony didn't seem fazed in the least.
[Facebook, Instagram, h/t New York Daily News]
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Larry Williams is a streetball sensation and has been breaking ankles for years. His nickname is Bone Collector for a reason.
From crossing over kids to facing NBA Rookie of the Year Karl-Anthony Towns one-on-one in Venice Beach, he's done it all on the hard court.
Take a look at the House of Highlights reel displaying his awe-inspiring game in action.
Artist: Dae Dae featuring Lil Yachty
Song: "Wat U Mean Remix"
James Harden faced off with a heckler during a Drew League game on Sunday.
The guy was getting on the Houston Rockets superstar for flopping, which has become a refrain among The Beard’s detractors in recent years.
“You’re flopping, bro,” the fan said. “You’re Vlade Divac-ing out there.”
Harden had clearly had enough, so he walked over and began explaining what a flop is.
“Hell no, James!” the fan bellowed. “You better be honest, man. We’re Boy Scouts.”
And with that, Harden returned to play, and the heckler returned to jeering the NBA’s second-leading scorer of 2015-16.
[YouTube, h/t Complex]
Guys... s://t.co/dpqLhzqBDa
Indianapolis Colts punter Pat McAfee has a history of getting random drug tests.
Key word: "random."
After a 4/20 tweet and an impressive tackle landed him tests in the past, McAfee's latest came following a booming 67-yard punt in Indianapolis' first preseason contest against the Buffalo Bills.
"I would have been offended if they didn't test me," McAfee told ESPN.com's Mike Wells. "You average 59 yards a punt. If you don't get tested for that, you're kind of upset about it to be honest."
[Pat McAfee]
A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
Is this the future?
As Notre Dame prepares for the 2016 season, head coach Brian Kelly and Co. are incorporating robot defenders into practice.
Seriously.
According to Eric Hansen of the South Bend Tribune, the Mobile Virtual Players (which we've seen before at Dartmouth) are 180 pounds and can reach speeds of 18 mph. On Saturday, the Fighting Irish used the dummies to simulate pass-rushers.
Those things can take a hit, too.
"They're worth their weight in gold," Kelly said, per Hansen.

The Tennessee Titans might be on to something.
As relayed by Josh Alper of Pro Football Talk, head coach Mike Mularkey confirmed Thursday to reporters that the team auctioned off its first two play calls in its opening preseason contest against the San Diego Chargers.
The money generated—a combined total of $20,000—benefited the Make-A-Wish Foundation. Mularkey previously did this with the Atlanta Falcons.
On Saturday, the plays worked to perfection.
First, DeMarco Murray ran for 15 yards. Then, Marcus Mariota found Tajae Sharpe for a 31-yard gain.
That's when the offense stalled…
Titans let fans call 1st two plays Sat night. They ended up being a 15 yd run and a 31 yd pass. Next 3 called by coaches? 5 total yards
The Titans eventually got it together and ran over San Diego, 27-10.

Childhood @KrisHumphries was a better 🏊 than Michael Phelps. Proof: s://t.co/6y2kpz35PE

(via @KLChouinard) s://t.co/IAwnBflFSH
Long before he was an NBA big man, Atlanta Hawks forward Kris Humphries was defeating some of the greatest swimmers of all time in the pool.
As discovered by the team's official site, when Humphries was 10 years old, he placed first in six different events at the 1994-95 nationals. Among those was Phelps' bread and butter, the 200-meter individual medley.
Humphries also beat fellow USA star Ryan Lochte in the same age group.
Here's what the 31-year-old told Dahvi Shira of People magazine in 2010:
I was so good at a young age that I got a little burnt out. I also grew up in the Michael Jordan era ... for me, I watched [basketball] and saw it as a challenge. It's hard to stay focused on something when you have a ton of success at a young age, so I picked up basketball a little later and rolled with that.
Imagine if Humphries and the 6'4" Phelps swapped career paths.
Then, Phelps might be out of the water with Kevin Durant and Co. cheering Humphries on.
[Hawks.com]

During the ninth inning of Sunday's 6-4 loss to the St. Louis Cardinals at Wrigley Field, the Chicago Cubs played a song called "Smack My Bitch Up" as Aroldis Chapman walked off the mound.
That is a wildly inappropriate song for a sporting event, and the Cubs closer's history only intensifies the misstep.
You think you'd have "Smack My Bitch Up" generally removed from most of your ballpark PA playlists, not just the ones involving players w/DV
"Smack My Bitch Up" shouldn't be played at a sporting event, period. The fact that it was even available to play at Wrigley is disturbing.
In March, Chapman was suspended 30 games after he reportedly choked his girlfriend during an argument and then fired eight gunshots into the wall and window of his garage last October.
According to ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers, the Cubs apologized, saying it was "unfortunate and should not have happened."
Paul Sullivan of the Chicago Tribune thinks the DJ at Wrigley Field will be disciplined:
Look for Cubs to discipline the Wrigley DJ who played "Smack My Bitch Up" after Aroldis appearance last night.
UPDATE: Monday, Aug. 15 at 1:06 p.m. ET
As expected, the Cubs have ended their relationship with the employee, per Rogers:
The Cubs have terminated their "relationship" with the person responsible for the... s://t.co/DJd7Z0SC8x s://t.co/1RCMumTSf9
--End of Update--
This is a bad look for the Cubs all around.
[h/t For The Win]

Chinese diver He Zi got all kinds of jewelry on Sunday.
After earning a silver medal in the women's three-meter springboard, He was surprised by her boyfriend, fellow diver Qin Kai, who previously won bronze in men's synchronized diving.
Qin got down on one knee in front of the cheering crowd and proposed.



She accepted, and the two tearfully embraced. You can see the full video here.
What a moment.
[NBC, h/t the Big Lead]
Zach LaVine is no stranger to show-stopping highlight plays.
Usually, though, the Minnesota Timberwolves guard does his damage above the rim.
During the Seattle Pro-Am All-Star Game on Sunday, the lanky LaVine dropped a defender with a swift juke before sinking a jumper.
Here's another angle, courtesy of Ballislife.com:
 
It looks like the opponent hit a wet spot on the floor, but this is a pretty play nonetheless.


That was fast.
Moments after defending his title as the world’s fastest man in the 100-meter dash on Sunday, Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt sent out a tweet to his home country:
Jamaica Stand Up!!! 
This for you my people
For context, Bolt's tweet came just a minute after the Associated Press':
BREAKING: Usain Bolt wins unprecedented third Olympic gold in 100 meters, defeating Justin Gatlin of the US by .08 seconds.
(Of course, the author of that post might not have been Bolt, as several users pointed out.)
Oh, but his race was fast, too.
Bolt edged out Justin Gatlin of the United States to win his third consecutive gold medal in the 100-meter event, an unprecedented Olympic feat.

Adele ne fera pas la mi-temps du #SuperBowl. Elle a été contactée mais a décliné l'invitation #AdeleLive2016 😯🏈🏈🏈 s://t.co/7c03cwMCSF
During a concert in Los Angeles on Saturday, singer Adele told the crowd that she declined the NFL’s invitation to perform at the Super Bowl 51 halftime show.
“First of all, I’m not doing the Super Bowl,” she said. “Well, come on, I mean...that show is not about music, and I don’t really—I can't dance or anything like that. So they were very kind. They did ask me, but I did say no.”
This came a few days after Dan Wootton of the Sun, a British tabloid, reported the NFL was "desperately trying" to book Adele for the gig.
It looks like the league will just have to find someone like her.
[Twitter, h/t The Comeback]
A photo posted by Billy Hobbs (@truebluecustoms)
The Tennessee Titans will open their season at home against the Minnesota Vikings on Sept. 11.
Of course, the date marks the 15th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the United States. Linebacker Avery Williamson took that into account when, according to TMZ, he approached designer Billy Hobbs.
Last week, Hobbs' company showed off the custom kicks the 24-year-old will debut in less than a month.
Check them out:
A photo posted by Billy Hobbs (@truebluecustoms)
[Instagram, h/t theScore]
#PhelpsFace is now - and forever. Credit to Livia at @ChronicInk in Toronto for her artistry! #Rio2016 s://t.co/5YLRLM536T
It was bound to happen sooner or later.
On Thursday, CBC Olympics tweeted out a picture of Michael Phelps' now-famous angry face tattooed on somebody's leg.
The iconic swimmer set the internet on fire with his mean mugging of South African rival Chad le Clos before a 200-meter butterfly semifinal Monday. Less than a week later, it's been inked on someone's skin.
Nice work by the artist. Phelps' seething anger really shines through.
[Twitter, h/t The Big Lead]
At first glance, this doesn't look real.
But it was.
On Thursday, the Dayton Dragons, Class-A affiliate of the Cincinnati Reds, turned a wacky double play after a liner bounced from pitcher Alex Webb off umpire Isaias Barba to shortstop Luis Gonzalez.
Gonzalez whipped it to first after stepping on the bag to complete the double play.
The Dragons lost to the South Bend Cubs, 7-4, but that play still shines.
[Vine, h/t Cincinnati Enquirer] 
At bat with the bases loaded and the count full in the bottom of the sixth inning Thursday, Chicago Cubs outfielder Chris Coghlan requested timeout.
He didn't get it.
What Coghlan did get was a two-RBI single after stepping back into the box as St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Carlos Martinez fired.
Chicago went on to win 4-3 on a walk-off walk.
[MLB]
BALTIMORE PROUD. #TeamUSA s://t.co/FlB1BoZkZ8
Michael Phelps is a showstopper.
During the Baltimore Ravens' 22-19 preseason win over the Carolina Panthers on Thursday, the team stopped everything to watch the Olympic legend add another gold medal to his collection in the men's 200-meter individual medley.
Once Phelps won, the players resumed the contest.
Panthers and Ravens players stopped on the field to watch Phelps win his 22nd gold medal. 

Baltimore proud.
Phelps is from Maryland and is a noted Ravens fan, so the crowd reacted accordingly, via ESPN's Darren Rovell:
Ravens fans cheer for Maryland's Michael Phelps as game is stopped for 200 IM &amp; he wins gold (via @k_dubb67) s://t.co/SHmKcRgBob
According to NBC, the Ravens also aired one of Phelps' victories in Beijing during a 2008 preseason game.
[Twitter, h/t Business Insider]
This poor guy.
With the San Diego Padres leading the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-0 in the bottom of the fifth inning on Wednesday, one fan made a play for a foul ball off Jung Ho Kang’s bat.
It went terribly.
In addition to whiffing on the catch, the man pie-faced himself with a plate of nachos. He had cheese and salsa all over his head and his shirt.
Perhaps worst of all, he also lost his beer.
[MLB, h/t Extra Mustard]
My chest s://t.co/xf8u7a7VPU
Draymond Green wasn’t ready for Kyrie Irving’s clutch three-pointer in the United States’ 98-88 win over Australia on Wednesday at the 2016 Rio Games.
How come?
Well, let’s just say it brought back some bad memories for the Golden State Warriors star. Specifically, Game 7 of the 2016 NBA Finals.
Here’s Uncle Drew’s dagger from the right wing on June 19:
Irving knocked down a similar shot on Wednesday, which gave the Americans a 93-86 lead over the Australians with about 1:35 to go. He finished with 19 points.


Rappers love referencing NBA players in their lyrics.
So, given that he’s a 12-time All-Star and three-time NBA champion, Dwyane Wade has heard his fair share of shoutouts from the biggest hip-hop stars in the game.
On Monday, the new Chicago Bulls guard teamed up with Genius to annotate some lyrics.
Here’s what we learned:
Here’s Wade on what it means to get this type of respect from musicians:
“[F]or an artist that is as great as they are and someone I respect for their greatness, hard work and time they put in, for them to look at something you’ve done in your career—whether they compare themselves to you or like what you’re doing, to me, man that is a big honor.”
[h/t Complex]

Good thing there were no memes 32 years ago.
According to retired NBA big man Sam Perkins, head coach Bobby Knight made Michael Jordan cry after a 78-67 quarterfinal win over Germany in the 1984 Olympics.
Here's what Big Smooth told Tina Cervasio and Tim Legler on SiriusXM's Above the Rim on Tuesday:
Bobby Knight, he got after us. He told Michael that's the worst he ever played. Now Michael's going to deny this, but he cried. He cried after the game, because of the fact that Bobby Knight told him, "You should apologize to everybody in here." I waited for my apology because I thought he was going to actually do it. But he actually cried.
His Airness, then just 21, finished with 14 points, four rebounds, three assists, a steal and six turnovers.
According to Perkins, Leon Wood consoled Jordan afterward.
"We didn't play that bad. It's the fact that [Knight] just wanted us to wake up for the next game because anything could happen," Perkins said. "That's the way Bobby Knight coached."
Keep in mind this was less than two months after Jordan was drafted by the Chicago Bulls. Perhaps the tough love helped set him on the path to becoming an all-time great.
Listen to the clip here:
[SoundCloud]
Maria Lenk venue officials say green water presented "no risk" to divers, but they're still investigating the cause. s://t.co/svOe3ykVFu
The water in a Rio de Janeiro Olympics diving pool turned green Tuesday.
While visually questionable, venue officials at Maria Lenk Aquatics Centre said it presented "no risk" to divers, per Nick Hope of the BBC.
The difference in color was noticeable. Take a look at this side-by-side comparison from Matt Majendie of the London Evening Standard:
Now water polo pool is going green next to diving pool. #Rio2016 s://t.co/AjCJGhk2qR
It's likely a simple case of not enough chlorine, but it's still somewhat concerning.

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Wesley Williams has some serious hops.
Spitting in the face of gravity-abiding mortals, he set the world record for box jumping. That's when he's not fetching basketballs in between rims with his foot or jumping out of a swimming pool.
Check out some of his incredible feats in the House of Highlights video above.
    
Artist: Pop EvilSong: "Footsteps"
A photo posted by LeBron James (@kingjames)
Over a month after defeating the Golden State Warriors and delivering the Cleveland Cavaliers their first-ever championship, LeBron James showed off a new version of his favorite hat.
Before Game 7, the King was seen wearing a "none of my business" Kermit the Frog cap. He rocked it again after winning.
lebron kept the kermit hat on and added an Ultimate Warrior shirt …he’s officially the GOAT s://t.co/TqoylnrbnL
On Monday, while vacationing in Italy, James showed off a new version. It features a crown on Kermit's head and a trophy in place of his tea.
A photo posted by LeBron James (@kingjames)
#KingLizard, anyone?
[LeBron James]
.@StephenCurry30, Dell Curry &amp; @POTUS hit the links earlier today 
🏌⛳️ s://t.co/j9GnrHIkJq
For the second year in a row, reigning NBA MVP Steph Curry hit the links with President Barack Obama.
Steph's dad, Dell Curry, also took part in the contest:
Pres Obama's foursome today includes @warriors star Steph Curry and father Dell, a former NBA player.

Obama, Steph Curry and dad Del golfing at Farm Neck Golf Club "overlooking woodland, salt marshes and, at times, the waters' edge," per pool
This came a day after Obama played with another star point guard:
Pres Obama doesn't play basketball much anymore, but enjoys playing golf with NBA stars. Played yesterday with @LAClippers Chris Paul.
After Obama's first go-around with the Currys, the Golden State Warriors star revealed to Jimmy Kimmel that the POTUS is a fan of talking trash on the course:
Obama was victorious last summer, Curry told Kimmel, so we anxiously await word on who won Round 2.
[Twitter, YouTube]
A photo posted by dwyanewade (@dwyanewade)
On Monday, Chicago Bulls star Dwyane Wade posted a picture of his Starbucks coffee bearing the name "Duane."
"Say it ain't so," Wade captioned the picture. "Am I turning into this guy now????"
Granted, D-Wade's first name is irregular—and he's the new guy in Chi-town (assuming that's where this took place) after spending his first 13 seasons with the Miami Heat.
But still—c'mon, barista.
[Dwyane Wade, h/t theScore]

Emiliano Grillo is experiencing a nightmare.
According to the Argentine golfer, delays with American Airlines could cost him his shot at participating in the Rio Olympics.
The airline apparently lost his clubs, and things aren't looking great:
@AmericanAir delays, rerouting and 20+ calls can't find my golf bag.  I am going to miss my chance to compete in the Olympics.  @Rio2016
@AmericanAir seriously, find me a human in JFK, MIA, or Sao Paolo that can physically look for my bag and confirm where it is and send it.
@LATAMAirlinesUS @LATAM_BRA need to help as well, 2 flights are yours.  I am going to miss playing in @Rio2016 because can't locate my clubs
The company reached out to him via Twitter, and Grillo wasn't exactly thrilled:
@GrilloEmiliano We have a team of folks working on this for you, Emiliano!
Thanks??? s://t.co/6XJtBKDTq6
Luckily, Domino's didn't let him down:
On a high note, thank you so much @dominos for the delivery at 3 AM. I don't know what would I do without your love.
Grillo is scheduled to compete at 6:30 a.m. ET on Thursday, so time is running out. Here's hoping he gets his shot.
In the meantime, keep an eye out:
Dónde crees que están mis palos? 

Where do you think my clubs are?

Charles Barkley is usually the one getting interviewed.
But on Sunday, the retired NBA star-turned-analyst for Turner Sports held a conversation with Alabama head coach Nick Saban.
When talking about golf—not a strong spot for Sir Charles—the 64-year-old coach insisted Barkley was not a lost cause. The big man responded by saying that if Saban could help turn his game around, Barkley would erect a statue of him at his Arizona home.
The two also talked family, and Saban said he wished he attended his children's athletic events more often over the years.
Toward the end (about the seven-minute mark), Saban touched on his preseason pickup basketball routine. He said that when 16-year NBA veteran Avery Johnson came to coach the Crimson Tide, the career point guard had to switch positions.
Saban runs the point.
[AL.com]
Sunday was just another game for Los Angeles Angels superstar Mike Trout.
On his 25th birthday, the center fielder skied over the wall to rob Leonys Martin of a grand slam in the fourth inning.
Though the Seattle Mariners won, 3-1, there was something poetic about seeing Trout make such a play with Ken Griffey Jr.'s No. 24 in the outfield grass.
[MLB]
Manny Machado was feeling it Sunday.
Heading into the fourth inning of a road contest against the Chicago White Sox, the Baltimore Orioles star was sitting pretty with three home runs.
The first two shots came off starter James Shields:
Machado's third and final longball went to left field off reliever Matt Albers.
It was a historic trio of innings, per ESPN Stats & Info:
Manny Machado of @Orioles is the 1st player since Mike Cameron in 2002 to hit 3 HR by the 3rd inning (Cameron would hit 4 that day).
Machado grounded into a double play in the fifth inning to end his streak.
[MLB, h/t For the Win]
A photo posted by Klay Thompson (@klaythompson)
Klay Thompson and Jimmy Butler took their talents to the gridiron on Sunday.
With Team USA assistant coach Monty Williams playing (an extremely impressive) steady quarterback, the Olympic guards took turns torching one another in one-on-one battles.
A photo posted by Jimmy Butler (@jimmybutler)
Thompson tagged the Oakland Raiders and said he was available if they needed a deep threat.
Amari Cooper will likely suffice for now, but you never know.
[Instagram]
Note: Skip to the 11:30 mark of the video above.
Portland Trail Blazers guard C.J. McCollum recently signed a four-year, $106 million extension.
During the press conference Friday, the 24-year-old talked about his mom, who apparently doubles as a scout.
"My mom, she’s got the notepads after every game. She’s taking notes and [says] ‘Let me know when you’re ready for me to go over this scouting report for this weekend.’ And I’m like, ‘Mom, I just watched film for four hours, I don’t want to see this.’"
McCollum also said his dad tells him to get his “handles like Kyrie [Irving]" and advises him to watch for backdoor cuts.
“That’s the type of family I have,” McCollum said.
This dynamic seems to have worked out for the NBA's Most Improved Player in 2016, who averaged 20.8 points for the No. 5-seeded Blazers.
[Portland Trail Blazers, h/t Uproxx]
Was at @alleniverson press conference last night and he had another legendary response when asked about practice s://t.co/FUgTndx6Wi
Warning: Video contains NSFW language.
We’re still talking about practice?
NBA Hall of Famer Allen Iverson was asked about his infamous 2002 rant Friday night, and he was not pleased.
In 2014, a documentary on the Answer dove into the story behind the tirade, and he explained to Neil Hartman, then of CSN Philly (via Enrico Campitelli of CSN Philly), that he was caught so off guard because he expected the press conference to be positive, not one about—uh—practice.
“Do you still feel the same way about practice?” the reporter asked Iverson on Friday night.
After making him repeat himself a few times, Iverson said, "I really didn’t think that I would ever get that question again" before going off.
[Twitter, h/t For The Win]
Andreas Toba is tougher than nails.
After tearing his right ACL during Germany's floor exercise Saturday, the 25-year-old broke down in tears.
"I cried like a little kid," Toba told Kristie Rieken of the Associated Press. "The injury on my knee is big, but the emotional injury is way bigger."


Later, he gutted through a performance in the pommel horse, which allowed Germany to qualify for the next round.
That's heart.
"That was amazing," teammate Fabian Hambuechen said. "It's an honor to have someone like him on the team."
[h/t For The Win, NBC Sports]
Some of the greatest athletes in sports have worn #24. A couple share their congrats. #24EVER
s://t.co/NU6GI3xnQr
"From one 24 to another..."
On Saturday, retired NBA legend Kobe Bryant congratulated former MLB superstar Ken Griffey Jr. on being inducted into the Hall of Fame. The video was made for the Seattle Mariners' number retirement ceremony.
Bryant, wearing a "Ringsssss" shirt, then joked that the Kid could help him on the golf course.
"It's not up to par, to say the least," the Mamba said of his game. "I'm no [Charles] Barkley, but I could definitely use your help."
[h/t For The Win, Mariners]
Good luck today @CoreyCogdell @MitchellJUnrein #goforgold s://t.co/MuFGLHTm1E
Chicago Bears defensive end Mitch Unrein is married to Corey Cogdell-Unrein, who will represent the United States as a trap shooter at the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
When Chicago hosted its Family Fest on Saturday, Unrein's teammates showed a great deal of support for his wife:
Lamarr Houston &amp; #Bears players supporting @CoreyCogdell, wife of @MitchellJUnrein, a top Olympic medal contender s://t.co/1ZWHD1Cnfm
...and @MitchellJUnrein with the D linemen too! Go get 'em @CoreyCogdell! #BearsFamFest #TeamUSA s://t.co/eJSrGQbixm
Love the #TeamUnrein shirts @MitchellJUnrein &amp; teammates had on today! We're rooting for you @CoreyCogdell! #Rio2016 s://t.co/irXo2ZFUJm
Cogdell-Unrein won bronze at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, and her husband has high hopes for this year.
"I know that she's one of the best shooters in the world," the 29-year-old defensive end told Patrick Finley of the Chicago Sun-Times. "If she has a really good day Sunday, there’s no doubt she can win the gold medal."
Win or lose, the Bears are behind her:
Thank you @ChicagoBears and @RobbieGould09 for your support! So awesome! s://t.co/JCSJwySKsI
[h/t For The Win]
The birthday celebration continues for @DeAngeloRB. 🎉 s://t.co/YUx78TuRtF
Thursday was not DeAngelo Williams' birthday.
But as a joke about him being "so old," the 33-year-old running back's Pittsburgh Steelers teammates celebrated. A day later, they sang to him while stretching and appeared to spray him with Silly String.
The real prank was filling his room with what kicker Chris Boswell described as 700 balloons:
Happy Birthday @DeAngeloRB !!! 700 balloons to fill up your room. You're welcome! s://t.co/9eeMVNoNir
Williams wasn't thrilled, but seemed to be a good sport, per ESPN.com's Jeremy Fowler:
"I don't think it's funny, but everybody else thinks it's funny,” Williams said with a laugh. "What's the worst is somebody comes up and has no idea and is like, 'Hey man, happy birthday,' and I'm like, 'It's not my birthday,' and they are like, 'Well, why did somebody say happy birthday to you?'"
This has become a running joke in Pittsburgh:
Players got the fans to sing Happy Birthday to Deangelo Willaims today (who was born April 25) #SteelersCamp #SVC s://t.co/eVhlfg275l
Here's another look at the Steelers' most recent prank:
Happy birthday @DeAngeloRB s://t.co/ztvBWl5UNK
Williams' birthday is April 25.
[h/t For The Win]
Yep I love the Olympics it's the only time all countries come together to compete! I love it!! s://t.co/YQue72tQ5c
Comedian Leslie Jones bleeds red, white and blue.
On Saturday, the Saturday Night Live star posted several videos of herself cheering passionately for Team USA in a variety of different events at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics.
Here's Jones after she watched Ginny Thrasher win the United States' first gold medal:
@Lesdoggg wow is this what good Twitter feels like? Great call @shoemakermike TY. Leslie will connect wu tomorrow. Everyone else stay tuned!
Later, Jones turned her attention to the swimming:
Well it was real y'all see y'all tomorrow!! s://t.co/0D9FHhpz1H
A photo posted by Leslie Jones (@lesdogggg)
Basketball didn't interest her much, but Jones touched on volleyball and criticized the spectators at a cycling event too.
Don't worry—she's ready for the rest of the Games.
Homegirl was fast! s://t.co/6MMD6psNjc
Update
Are we set to hear more from Jones on NBC?
Executive producer Jim Bell tweeted at Jones inviting her to Rio after being tagged in one of her videos:
GOT SILVER s://t.co/eh8MIdLCB8
Jones seemed into it:
Well it was real y'all see y'all tomorrow!! s://t.co/0D9FHhpz1H
This is definitely worth keeping an eye on:
@shoemakermike OK @Lesdoggg you're officially invited to Rio. Want to come?
[h/t Huffington Post]
Update (08/08/16)
As it turns out, Jones will be lending her charisma to NBC.
@jfb @shoemakermike hmmmm don't play cause y'all need me! I would have the whole Olympics pumped!!
But don't expect her commentary to be any less subjective.
In fact, she's already made her first bold prediction.
Well it was real y'all see y'all tomorrow!! s://t.co/0D9FHhpz1H
[h/t For The Win]


Big Show will square off against the Big Aristotle at WrestleMania 33 on April 2, 2017.
That better be one strong ring.
The WWE veteran confirmed his bout with NBA legend Shaquille O'Neal to ShanghaiDaily.com on Friday: "We'll have one heck of a match and we'll see what's up. We'll give the fans a treat."
This doesn't come as a total shock, since Big Show challenged the Big Diesel to a match in his hometown of Orlando, Florida, at the ESPYs on July 13.
"Sure you wanna do that?" was Shaq's initial response.
This won't be O'Neal's first time in the ring with Big Show. They worked together during last year's Andre the Giant Memorial Battle Royal:
[h/t Extra Mustard]

On Thursday, the Carolina Panthers became the first NFL team in league history to practice alongside a high school team, per Steve Reed of the Associated Press.
Riley Fields, Carolina's director of community relations, said the team was celebrating the NFL's Play 60 campaign.
The workout took place at Wofford College. The Panthers went through warm-ups with Spartanburg High School and then held their session on a field directly next to the Vikings.
"To me it's about the love of the game and bringing it back to the community," said head coach Ron Rivera, who initially opposed the idea but came around to support it.

According to Reed, the Panthers had to clear the project with the NFL, NCAA and high school officials before it could take place.
While certainly a learning experience, the practice also sounded fun for the high schoolers. Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis said he told one youngster to trash-talk reigning MVP Cam Newton.
"I was kind of feeding him stuff to say to Cam," Davis said. "He delivered it pretty well."
[Associated Press]

Canadian Santo Condorelli flips off his dad before every race.
It's true. According to Donna Spencer of the Canadian Press, Condorelli's father began the tradition when his son was an eight-year-old frustrated by competing against older swimmers.
"[He said] 'You've got to build your confidence yourself and say eff everybody else that you're racing,'" Condorelli told Spencer. "He said, 'Every time you're behind the blocks, give me the finger and I'll give it back to you.'"
As you might imagine, Condorelli has gotten into trouble with this ritual. Fans unaware of his story might be offended or shocked when they see a bird flipped at them pre-race.
"It became a good ritual for both of us. He got a lot of his aggravation out with just a really simple 'Give it to the world' rather than keep it internalized," Condorelli's dad, Joseph, said. "It calms him down on the blocks for sure."
Here's an action shot of Condorelli’s middle-finger ritual (skip to 1:25):
[h/t theScore, YouTube]
Team USA is ready to rock the 2016 Rio Olympic Games.
Earlier this week, both men's and women's swimmers hit the road and absolutely jammed out to a variety of songs, including some Justin Bieber, the Pokemon theme and "Party in the USA." by Miley Cyrus.
Only two swimmers—Blake Pieroni and Clark Smith—did not appear. The rest sang their hearts out.
Which car put on the best show?
[USA Swimming]

On July 22, United States women’s national soccer team goalie Hope Solo showed the world her collection of insect repellent heading into the Rio Olympics.
She also used the hashtag “#zikaproof,” referring to the mosquito-transmitted virus.
Not sharing this!!! Get your own! #zikaproof #RoadToRio s://t.co/y3d8hnuEjk
Apparently, this rubbed Brazil fans the wrong way.
During Wednesday’s match, fans booed Solo throughout and chanted “Zika” whenever she touched the ball. Solo didn’t seem affected.
Team USA beat New Zealand, 2-0.
[Twitter, h/t SB Nation]
Bet y'all didn't know @ScHoolBoyQ and @kendricklamar had skills 🏈 #MobSquad s://t.co/olpGF3xtIz
Top Dawg Entertainment took over the Los Angeles Rams’ camp on Wednesday.
With the team appearing to be on another field, Schoolboy Q dropped back in the pocket and hit fellow rapper Kendrick Lamar with a pass near the sideline.
It looked like K-Dot kept his feet in too.
As the 2016 season approaches, expect the transition to L.A. to garner more celebrity support for the Rams.
[Rams]
It's clear that Chad Johnson’s daughter, Cha’iel, inherited the former wide receiver’s speed.
On Wednesday, the 11-year-old claimed a second straight title in the 800-meter race at the Junior Olympic Championships in Houston.
Johnson stuck with the pack for most of the race but kicked it into another gear as she hit the final straightaway.
As TMZ Sports noted, Johnson’s time of two minutes, 19.60 seconds was nearly eight seconds faster than her time last year.
[TMZ Sports]
A photo posted by Andrew Wiggins (@22wiggins)
We knew that Andrew Wiggins can get up.
But this is still jaw-dropping.
On Wednesday, the blossoming Minnesota Timberwolves forward posted a video of himself nearly finishing a 720-degree dunk with one hand.
That’s two spins in the air, people.
Wiggins had the height and the hang time, but as the clip prematurely cuts off, the ball appears to bounce out.
Don't worry about it, Wiggins. Just bring the finished product to the 2017 Slam Dunk Contest.
[Instagram]
Video: Joey Votto misses foul ball. Then interacts with Reds fan #WLWT s://t.co/Xx4AGXXYvb
This one has to sting.
During the Cincinnati Reds' home game against the St. Louis Cardinals on Tuesday, one fan tried to catch a foul ball in the seats.
First baseman Joey Votto was trying to do the same.
They bumped arms, and the ball fell to the ground. Votto grabbed the guy's shirt, looked at the Reds logo—as if to express disappointment that a fan would harm his own team—and walked away in disdain.
Later, Votto, perhaps remorseful, patched things up with the fan:
Votto apologized to that guy. s://t.co/qtVOsVbAc9
Major props to Joey Votto. Emotions ran high, and he immediately makes it right. Kudos. #STLCards
TV just showed Joey Votto signing a baseball and taking a picture with the fan.
This is awesome. Joey Votto signs a ball with an apology for a fan who he interacted with on a foul ball. #MLBonFS1 s://t.co/h7glbaTRfg
Here's video of the exchange:
Part of Votto's message on the ball appears to be "Thanks for being so understanding when I acted out of character."
[Twitter, h/t Deadspin]
Yo @JoelEmbiid is really the biggest savage on social media s://t.co/LgWfoDw0XC
Joel Embiid has never played an NBA game, but the 22-year-old is a social media legend.
From recruiting LeBron James on Twitter to pursuing pop star Rihanna, the Philadelphia 76ers big man has built a large following online.
That will surely only grow with Instagram's latest update, which allows users to post "Stories" that disappear after 24 hours (like Snapchat).
Embiid's review? Simple: It's "a better way to slide in DMs."


Veteran announcer Vin Scully has had too many iconic calls to count.
But on Tuesday, the Los Angeles Dodgers asked fans to rank the 88-year-old's top 20, which include perfect games by Don Larsen (1956) and Sandy Koufax (1965) and Clayton Kershaw's no-hitter (2014). Also featured are Hank Aaron's 715th home run (1974) and the team's first game after Sept. 11 (2001).
The club will reveal the rankings of the calls (from "greatest to great") starting Aug. 13 and ending Sept. 23, which is Vin Scully Appreciation Night.
[Dodgers]
Free-agent shooting guard Jason Terry addressed the NBA's hottest offseason topic Tuesday: superteams.
Here's his take on the Golden State Warriors, who added Kevin Durant to an already star-studded crew this summer:
They got super talent. You do have two MVPs. If you look at the history of the NBA—Lew Alcindor/Oscar Robertson, Kareem/Magic—every team in the league back in the day had two or three superstars. But you weren't calling them superteams.
Terry said he would refuse to call the Warriors a superteam until they are successful on the court, but he acknowledged they are on the cusp.
"Because they have super individuals, it doesn't make them a superteam," he said. "To me, it's more about the accomplishment and what they're able to accomplish—and are they going to accomplish it? It's yet to be seen."
For the Jet, it's more about the style of play than the names on the back of the jerseys. The San Antonio Spurs, he noted, were a superteam with Tim Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili because they won five championships.
All this comes from a viable source. In addition to having 17 NBA seasons under his belt, Terry helped the Dallas Mavericks take down the 2010-11 Miami Heat, who featured LeBron James and Chris Bosh in their first season with Dwyane Wade.
To beat a team like that, "your role players have to be just as super," Terry said.
[Yardbarker]

Draymond Green never should have hit "send."
To be more specific, he never should have selected the "My Story" option on his Snapchat app. That momentary lapse proved to be the difference between ferrying out an NSFW picture to the masses and an otherwise quiet weekend.
"It was meant to be private," Green said of the picture, per The Vertical's Michael Lee. "We're all one click away from placing something in the wrong place, and I suffered from that this morning."
Green is absolutely right. The age of social media gives every user, habitual or recreational, the tools to stage their own undoing. It's a scary and wild thing to consider. It also makes you wonder about anything that never escaped the drafts of NBA player accounts.
Bleacher Report has decided to find out. We fake-hacked the Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter accounts of a few marquee social media surfers, pored over their unsent thoughts and unearthed a healthy mix of responses to Green's dilemma along with some other random musings.
    
DeMarcus Cousins

DeMarcus Cousins clearly doesn't have any qualms about roasting Green, a fellow Team USA baller, so I'm not entirely sure why this Snap wasn't pushed through. Maybe Carmelo Anthony threatened to force-feed him some flaxseed oatmeal or something.
    
Stephen Curry

Ayesha Curry knows a thing or two about the unsavory side of social media. She (briefly) claimed the Association was "absolutely rigged" after the Golden State Warriors' loss in Game 6 of the NBA Finals.
If Green decided to stick with the "I'm a celebrity, and I was hacked even though I really wasn't" excuse, the idea that Snapchat is rigged against half-nude millionaires under 30 might have gained steam.
    
Draymond Green

"To say I can't catch a break, that's disrespectful to everybody, because how many people get to live out their dream?" Green explained of his immediate reaction to the Snapchat fiasco, per Lee. "I'm not going to sit here and throw myself a pity party."
Firing off this tweet would have nicely complemented those comments. But perhaps Green just didn't want to dredge up Paul George's catfish conundrum. Though, to be fair, Cousins thinks George still takes shirtless kissy-face selfies and the like for fun:

Chances are Green had nothing to worry about. Failing to hit "tweet" was the real mistake in this situation.
    
Richard Jefferson

Too bad Green didn't actually get advice from Richard Jefferson at the end of the NBA Finals. He is the greatest Snapchatter of all time.
    
Carmelo Anthony

Anthony, unlike Green, is reluctant to partake in social media shenanigans—glazed doughnut face references notwithstanding.
Case in point: He looked utterly miserable while Team USA was rocking out to some Vanessa Carlton. Carlton, being the good sport that she is, hollered at Anthony on Twitter:
@carmeloanthony I get it. Though the boys did sound pretty good. x
This (probably now discarded) draft proves Anthony was just trying to figure out who sings "A Thousand Miles," not being a party-pooping curmudgeon.
    
Joel Embiid

Joel Embiid was clearly waffling between posting this or something else on Instagram in support of Sam Hinkie, the author-turned-scapegoat of the Philadelphia 76ers' now notorious "process." He went with something else:
A photo posted by Joel "The Process" Embiid (@joelembiid)
Let's face it: Embiid made the right call. Why publicly cop to placing a flaming bag of dog feces on Jerry Colangelo's porch?
    
LeBron James

What's the over/under on how long it would take the Cleveland Cavaliers to sign J.R. Smith if the also-unsigned LeBron James actually posted this to his Facebook page? One hour? One minute? Thirty seconds?
Eh, let's just set it for 10 seconds. That seems reasonable.
    
Isaiah Thomas

Good news, Isaiah Thomas. While Bleacher Report's Howard Beck called your Boston Celtics the most likely trade destination for Russell Westbrook, there wasn't anything brewing on that front as of mid-July, according to the Boston Herald's Steve Bulpett. Your starting gig is safe.
Better still, if the Celtics know what's good for them, that won't change. As Michael Pina wrote for RealGM:
Right now the Celtics are already one LeBron James injury from making the NBA Finals. They're way ahead of schedule and don't need to sacrifice the future unless the absolute perfect opportunity presents itself.
Why give up assets and key contributors who were good enough to win 48 games—before adding [Al] Horford—in a climate of constant player movement? Numerous star-caliber players will hit the market every summer for the foreseeable future, and Boston has enough cap flexibility to afford anyone they want.
Basically, there was no need for Thomas to let the above draft rip. He would have ended up deleting it, just like he did with his premature pitch to Kevin Durant.
    
Dion Waiters

Suddenly, Dwyane Wade's departure from the Miami Heat makes too much sense.
By the way, here's a close-up of Dion Waiters' unpublished work of art:

    
Russell Westbrook

Well, crap. Let's hope Westbrook's Snapchat draft eventually goes live. It's the perfect rebuttal to Durant's latest tattoo:
A photo posted by ThompsonScribe (@thompsonscribe)
The nerve of him, right? Getting fresh ink less than a month after setting fire to the Oklahoma City Thunder's immediate future? Westbrook absolutely should cover his stomach in Steven Adams' face.
And if he didn't, someone else should—preferably Enes Kanter.
    
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, @danfavale.

Skip Bayless has always brought the heat.
From his opinions on Tim Tebow to LeBron James, the former First Take co-host has never been one to back down from his beliefs.
I miss my brother Stephen A and many close friends at ESPN, but I was born to do this show on this network with this team.
Now, according to the 64-year-old, things will get even hotter now that he's with Fox Sports 1. Here's what he told Marisa Guthrie of the Hollywood Reporter:
Too many people in charge at ESPN, for my taste, were a little too fearful. It's a Disney network. There are just certain boundaries that you can't even tiptoe along. Not that we won't have boundaries at Fox, because we will. [But] they will trust me to go a little deeper. I can be completely honest on everything.
Bayless continued by saying: "I'm not suggesting I'm going to become some sort of shock jock because that's not me. I say what I say because I believe it from the bottom of my soul and I can back it up. Now I feel like I can be completely honest, heart-and-soul, with full support from the people above me."
Perhaps boldest of all, Bayless said his new network will allow him to take off the "handcuffs."
Bayless later tweeted he will miss Stephen A. Smith and others at ESPN:
IT'S OFFICIAL: My new show on Fox Sports 1 launches Sept. 6. Daily 10-12 Eastern. FOX attitude. More details soon. HERE WE GO.
He added the new show, which has yet to be named, will launch Sept. 6. It will directly compete with First Take, which airs at the same time:

Double Vision! s://t.co/vpP3lXz3QK
Two Andy Reids are better than one.
On Monday, the Kansas City Chiefs head coach hung out with a fan who looked just like him at training camp.
This guy had the mustache, hat, glasses and windbreaker down. Wearing similar shoes was just a bonus.
Reid's twin even handled the coach's press conference:
Fake Andy Reid starts off the #Chiefs press conference only to be interrupted by the real Andy Reid. s://t.co/Zc55yY6Qj2
Real-life Reid told his "good-lookin'" duplicate to "go get a hamburger."

You're a wizard, Russell. s://t.co/yE4Z8pCY4f
J.K. Rowling’s latest work, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, was released at midnight this past Sunday.
Russell Westbrook seemed excited.
The Oklahoma City Thunder point guard rocked a Harry Potter-themed Snapchat filter featuring glasses and the wizard’s iconic forehead scar.
So this makes Kevin Durant “He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named,” right?
[Twitter, h/t SB Nation]
Warning: Video above is NSFW.
It was only a matter of time.
On Monday, video surfaced of Draymond Green’s Team USA teammates DeMarcus Cousins and Klay Thompson joking about his now-infamous Snapchat incident.
The Golden State Warriors forward was being interviewed on the other end of the court while Boogie and Thompson teased him about the picture.
Green apologized for the mishap on Sunday.
[YouTube, h/t Complex]
.@Rangers legend @MikeyY626 does NOT like clowns. @ElvisandrusSS1 almost learned the hard way! #RangersHOF
s://t.co/SzX9zEkz5Y
Former Texas Rangers shortstop Michael Young was inducted into the team's Hall of Fame on Saturday, but things got interesting when Elvis Andrus surprised Young and his family in a Saw mask by the dugout.
Young wasn't feeling that. The 14-year veteran looked like he was inches away from throwing a haymaker at Andrus, a known prankster.
"I was cocked and ready," Young told the Rangers broadcast team. "The back story is that I have a severe distaste, distrust—and clowns are a bad thing. You want nothing to do with them."
Young's kids were in the truck, so maybe he felt they were in danger and went into papa-bear mode.
Either way, the lesson is clear: Don't try to scare this guy.
[Fox Sports: MLB, h/t SB Nation]
You gotta love Tim Duncan's LinkedIn page... (this is actually a real thing) s://t.co/D7YUdcIG5Z
Tim Duncan has a particular set of skills…
But they're not lethal.
Take a look at what appears to be a fan account of the newly retired Big Fundamental on LinkedIn.
Some highlights:
Oh, and TD's top skill is "basketball."
Who's ready to hire him?
[h/t Steve Kyler]
We all knew this Sunday night would end with a 2-strike #walkoff bunt by @JLester34. s://t.co/zHgFW0ed1L s://t.co/ASPO4xMvaC
What a game. Lester's bunt rolls perfectly and Heyward called safe at home. #Cubs win in extras 7-6. s://t.co/SPmSMuMwVt
Nothing to see here, folks. Just your classic walk-off suicide squeeze.
Chicago Cubs pitcher Jon Lester stepped to the plate in the bottom of the 12th inning on Sunday in a 6-6 game against the Seattle Mariners. He was pinch hitting for Hector Rondon.
With one out and the count 2-2, Jason Heyward bolted for home as Lester laid down a perfect bunt.
Game over, 7-6.
Pandemonium ensued.
Chicago was down, 6-0, in the third inning but chipped away and forced a wild finish in extras.
[MLB, Twitter]
On Sunday, retired NBA legend Kobe Bryant handed pop star Justin Timberlake the first-ever Teen Decade Award.
Cue the passing jokes.
Before introducing JT, the Black Mamba said it was great to be back at the Forum, and he had a lot of great memories playing there.
Congrats my brother. @jtimberlake #teenchoice #muse s://t.co/hOzhOROk3t
That’s when he turned the focus to Timberlake.
“I’m not just a fan,” Bryant said. “I consider myself a friend.”
Timberlake jokingly bowed to the former Los Angeles Lakers star as he took the stage before the two embraced.
[YouTube]
We had some awesome kids from Riley Hospital visit #ColtsCamp today:
s://t.co/tvY0pwofoF
The Indianapolis Colts and Riley Hospital for Children held their annual Kids Day at training camp Sunday.
Head coach Chuck Pagano welcomed the group of boys and girls onto the field, where they chatted with and scored autographs from the likes of Andrew Luck, T.Y. Hilton, Pat McAfee, Adam Vinatieri and more.
Luck asked one group what the greatest football team in the world was, and their answer was exactly what you’d expect.
The event was free, per WISH-TV.
Nicely done, Colts.

Nine months later, Washington Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins’ famous slogan continues to evolve.
On Sunday, Wayside Farm Fun, a festival based out of Virginia, revealed an image of its new corn field, which features Cousins’ likeness below the words “You like that!?”
There is also a massive Lego-looking statue of Cousins in said maze.
Per Wayside’s Facebook page, the attraction will open every weekend between Sept. 17 and Oct. 30.
[Facebook, h/t SB Nation]
A photo posted by April Ross (@aprilrossbeach)
USA volleyball players April Ross and Brooke Sweat narrowly avoided Olympic disaster on Sunday.
The duo’s American Airlines connection flight from Miami to Rio was delayed, and the next one was on Saturday. Given that the Opening Ceremony for the 2016 games is on Friday, that would’ve been a catastrophe.
Still no flight to Rio!! Earliest rebooking option is Aug. 6th right now😳 Really just need @AmericanAir to hold our flight!
Luckily, United Airlines was able to come through in the clutch. They caught a Sunday night flight.
. @USAV @USOC and @United coming through BIG time!!! Thanks to all for their HARD work! Looks like we are going to make it after all!!🇺🇸🇺🇸🇺🇸
@AprilRossBeach Glad to read things are working in your favor April. Cheers. ^JR
A photo posted by April Ross (@aprilrossbeach)
[Twitter, Instagram, h/t For the Win]
In a painful twist, Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Yasmani Grandal got burned with the hidden-ball trick on Sunday.
Of course, this was not your classic prank. A fourth-inning curveball in the dirt from pitcher Ross Stripling bounced off Grandal’s mask and into his chest protector.
It was ruled a wild pitch, which allowed Arizona Diamondbacks third baseman Jake Lamb to score from third base.
That run pushed Arizona's lead to 2-0, but the Dodgers rattled off 14 runs in the next five innings.
[MLB]
Sek Henry hooking up @KennethFaried35 w/ sick lobs. 😱

Follow us on Snapchat for more from #thedrew

👻 TheDrewLeague s://t.co/EDri0ciz7Q
The Manimal was set loose at the Drew League on Sunday.
Denver Nuggets forward Kenneth Faried made some noise at the Los Angeles hoops hotspot with a sweet alley-oop off a lob from former Nebraska guard Sek Henry.
Sounds like it was one of many:
.@KennethFaried35 has made it clear that he will try and catch any and all lobs ... off the glass, from out of bounds, in traffic, etc.
This dude @KennethFaried35 is shutting down #thedrew right now. Lobs on lobs @DrewLeague
They weren't lying:
A photo posted by Josh Martin (@joshmartinnba)
This was just Faried’s second game in the Drew League. He was suiting up for #Juglife.
Safe to say he's making a strong impression.

New look.... Here We Go #Rio #2016 thanks @jennjonesatl #turnup s://t.co/A9ZOFz9h8k s://t.co/k7aGDk3YRC
On Sunday, Team USA swimmer Ryan Lochte dyed his hair.
The five-time Olympic gold medalist revealed the new 'do after teasing that a change was coming throughout the day:

A change could be happening today
Me hungry!! @jennjonesatl #newlook #dye s://t.co/qnEpbHuNGz s://t.co/XqgWvm8PhR
Lochte’s hair used to be brown—there’s no debating that. Now, it’s a variation of silver or a faded blue, depending on how you see it.

With the Rio Olympics kicking off on Friday, though, he definitely should’ve gone with gold.
[Ryan Lochte, h/t NBC]

Bruce Bochy got creative on Sunday.
In the fifth inning of a 1-0 game against the Washington Nationals, the San Francisco Giants skipper deployed two pitchers in non-pitching situations.
And it worked.
First, Madison Bumgarner pinch-hit for Matt Cain, who was throwing a no-hitter. The big fella bombed a double off the wall.
Madison Bumgarner is pinch-hitting for Matt Cain, who has a no-hitter intact through 5 innings. Every word of that sentence is accurate.
Then, fellow starter Jeff Samardzija pinch-ran for Bumgarner.
And now Jeff Samardzija is pinch-running for Madison Bumgarner, who was pinch-hitting for Matt Cain. My head hurts.
The 31-year-old scored when Nationals third baseman Anthony Rendon made a throwing error on a Hunter Pence grounder.
George Kontos took the mound in the top of the sixth with a 2-0 lead.
[MLB, Twitter]

In a GQ exclusive published Wednesday, LaVar Ball offered a brutally honest assessment regarding the NBA prospects of his middle son, LiAngelo Ball.
According to GQ's Zach Baron, LaVar doesn't expect LiAngelo to make it to the NBA but suggested he won't have to worry about struggling financially if he doesn't.
"I told my boys that one of them wasn't going to make it. Because if you've got three, only one, maybe two make it to the NBA," Ball said, adding that LiAngelo is "going to be taken care of either way."
The Ball family patriarch said he has told LiAngelo before he believes he is the least likely to reach the NBA among his three sons.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
LiAngelo will attend UCLA this coming season, following in the footsteps of older brother Lonzo, who is expected to be one of the top picks in Thursday's 2017 NBA draft and is favored to go No. 2 overall to the Los Angeles Lakers.
LaMelo is the youngest Ball brother, and LaVar told Baron he believes his last-born son has the most star power among the trio.
No matter how LiAngelo and LaMelo fare moving forward, Lonzo has the makings of a potential NBA superstar. That alone could go a long way toward establishing LaVar's Big Baller Brand on the basketball apparel scene.

Basketball Hall of Fame member Shaquille O'Neal believes the New York Knicks should make Kristaps Porzingis the face of the franchise rather than deal him away amid recent trade speculation.
TMZ Sports passed along comments Shaq made Tuesday during an American Express Teamed Up event in New York City as the Porzingis rumors were heating up.
"Keep Porzingis and trade everybody else around him," O'Neal said. "Try to build around him. This kid's got a great future."
On Tuesday, Adrian Wojnarowski‏ of The Vertical reported Knicks president Phil Jackson "isn't ruling out" the idea of trading the Latvian power forward. Adam Zagoria of ZagsBlog noted the Philadelphia 76ers, Phoenix Suns and San Antonio Spurs have all reached out to New York with interest.
However, Chris Mannix of The Vertical said there was "skepticism" about the chances of a deal due to the Knicks' "extremely high" price tag.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Meanwhile, Shaq also told TMZ Sports the Lakers would be in good hands if they select UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball with the second overall pick in Thursday's draft.
"He's a great player," the 15-time NBA All-Star and current TNT analyst said. "He makes his teammates better."
He made the endorsement despite previously taking a shot at Lonzo's father, LaVar Ball, on social media for placing a $495 price tag on the top prospect's first signature shoe through the Big Baller Brand:
Hey @Lavarbigballer real big baller brands don't over charge kids for shoes. s://t.co/N2U0VPXXyt
The Lakers are in the market for a point guard in the draft after reportedly trading D'Angelo Russell to the Brooklyn Nets on Tuesday, per Wojnarowski. It makes Ball or Kentucky counterpart De'Aaron Fox the likely choice, assuming Washington's Markelle Fultz goes first to the Sixers.

While most of the NBA offseason talk has involved players under contract who might get shipped off to other teams, the NBA's 2017 free agent class is bound to steal the headlines soon enough.
This year's crew is stacked with All-Star talent and depth, and teams are clamoring to add those missing pieces and form super teams to take down the defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors, who look like a budding dynasty.
Below you'll find news and rumors surrounding three teams looking to make a splash.
      
Los Angeles Lakers
Per Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical, the Los Angeles Lakers traded D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov to the Brooklyn Nets in exchange for center Brook Lopez and the No. 27 pick in this year's draft.
However, there is more to this deal under the surface, per Wojnarowski:
For the Lakers, this is longer-term play to clear space for Paul George and LeBron James pursuit. Lonzo Ball on way at No.2 s://t.co/KxfdEuAUO0
One can almost put Paul George's name in pen on the 2018-19 Lakers roster at this point. He is originally from Southern California, and per Wojnarowski, he has already expressed interest in landing in L.A.
The question is whether the Lakers can land LeBron James as well in a year. The guess here is that James won't want to go to a non-competitive team with a bunch of players whose ages range from the late teens to early 20s. He's one of the best and most competitive athletes in sports history, and James probably wants to vie for a title every single year until he retires.
Therefore, the Lakers need to build a playoff-ready team without James in the mix and then try to convince LBJ that he's the missing piece to a championship-caliber squad. Of course, adding George goes a long way toward making that happen. If the Lakers can assemble some pieces and further develop their young core, then maybe James will consider it.
Until that happens, it's hard to fathom James leaving his home state, and the prediction is that he stays in Cleveland for the duration of his career.
       
San Antonio Spurs
Wojnarowski, who may be working 24-hour days at this point in the NBA offseason, also broke news about Spurs center Pau Gasol:
"San Antonio Spurs center Pau Gasol will decline the $16.2 million option on his 2017-18 contract, but intends to work with the franchise on a new, longer-term deal to remain with the team, league sources told The Vertical. Gasol’s opt-out delivers San Antonio salary cap relief for next season, which could ultimately assist in maneuvering to become involved in free agency." 
The speculation on Twitter has been that this is a play to try to acquire Los Angeles Clippers point guard Chris Paul, who can decline his 2017-18 player option and become a free agent.
Kurt Helin of ProBasketballTalk and Moke Hamilton of Basketball Insiders are in that crowd:
Report: Pau Gasol declining player option with Spurs, which could open door for Chris Paul s://t.co/5kjl5dCMBl
Pau Gasol opting out of Spurs deal could go LONG way toward helping clear cap space for Chris Paul. Huge development.
It makes a lot of sense for the nine-time All-Star to head to the Spurs. Paul is a pass-first point guard who would fit in seamlessly with San Antonio, an unselfish team that basically turns passing into an art form.
Furthermore, the Spurs are coming off a 61-win season that ended in the Western Conference Finals against Golden State. Paul, who hasn't made the conference finals in his career, could join the team and immediately help the Spurs go toe to toe with Golden State in a deep playoff series. An NBA Finals championship certainly wouldn't be out of the question for a Spurs team led by Paul and forward Kawhi Leonard.
Incumbent San Antonio point guard Tony Parker has had an outstanding career in San Antonio, but he is 35 years old and entering his 17th NBA season. He also just played a career-low 25.2 minutes per game.
Backup Patty Mills is solid as a spot starter and reserve, but if the Spurs can convince Paul to head to San Antonio, then this is a no-brainer move.
The prediction here is that Paul heads to Texas.
   
Boston Celtics
The Boston Celtics look poised to add another All-Star (or maybe even two) to its crew in hopes of stopping LeBron James of winning an eighth straight Eastern Conference title next year. It's just a matter of who that All-Star will be.
Utah Jazz All-Star forward Gordon Hayward seems like an obvious fit, especially because he used to play under Celtics head coach Brad Stevens while the two were at Butler University.
However, per Marc Stein of ESPN, the Miami Heat are also in play for his services.
Wojnarowski also noted on a podcast (h/t Ryan Snellings of FanSided) that Clippers power forward Blake Griffin is also in the mix: "Boston is really the danger for Blake Griffin. I think Boston's two primary free-agent targets, right now, are Gordon Hayward and Blake Griffin. Now, they're not going to get both of them, but they're both players that would potentially have interest there. I think Boston looks at in different ways with their future."
Hayward would be a great pickup for Boston. The chemistry with Stevens is a huge boost, especially because they had so much success together at Butler, including a national championship game appearance.
Furthermore, the C's need another scorer to take the load off of point guard Isaiah Thomas. Hayward led the Utah Jazz to a Western Conference semifinals appearance thanks to an average of 21.9 points per game on 47.1 percent shooting (39.8 percent from three-point range). With Boston, he could be a perfect complement to Thomas as the No. 2 option in the offense.
Griffin would be a great pickup as well if Boston can swing it, but Boston needs more help with scoring from the outside. Hayward would certainly help in that regard. The guess here is that Hayward reunites with Stevens and signs a long-term deal with the C's.

Are you suffering from NBA vertigo? Don’t worry, you’re not alone.
Between the Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers swapping picks, David Griffin’s exit from the Cleveland Cavaliers, D’Angelo Russell’s impending exile in Brooklyn and Dwight Howard getting traded to Charlotte during a Twitter Q&A, the annual basketball hot stove is already LIT.
And that’s before the insanity that’s bound to ensue during the 2017 draft. Five teams currently own multiple first-round picks in a class that’s long on intriguing talent.
Chances are, some of those selections will change hands between now and the moment deputy commissioner Mark Tatum announces the 60th pick on Thursday. Those slots aren’t going to move for peanuts, either. There could be some bona fide All-Stars and massive contracts sent from one city to another on skids greased by picks.
All of which is to say, hold onto your butts, ladies and gents. These 10 moves may well Woj-bomb your TV screens along with the hopes and dreams of your favorite team.

Yes, the Lakers used D’Angelo Russell (in part) to dump Timofey Mozgov’s salary on the Brooklyn Nets. And yes, as Bleacher Report’s Kevin Ding noted, that amounts to “selling low” on a mercurial 21-year-old with evident (if inconsistent) talent as a scorer and passer.
But if there’s any consolation for Lakers Nation, it’s this: Of all the dominos that may fall in L.A.’s favor, this is just the first.
Next up? Paul George. According to The Vertical’s Adrian Wojnarowski, George’s camp made it crystal clear to the Indiana Pacers that the All-Star will leave the Circle City next summer as a free agent.
“George hasn’t requested a trade before he can opt out of his 2018-19 contract,” Woj wrote, “but did have his agent, Aaron Mintz, tell new Indiana president of basketball operations Kevin Pritchard that he wanted to be forthright on his plans and spare the franchise any confusion about his intentions, league sources told The Vertical.”
Per ESPN’s Marc Stein, the Lakers will see if they can land George, who’s yearning for a return to his Southern California roots, in exchange for the two late first-round picks they now have (Nos. 27 and 28) and either Jordan Clarkson or Julius Randle. Depending on how the market shakes out, L.A. may have to give up both youngsters along with those picks to pry PG-13 from the Pacers a year early.
If that’s what it takes to land a franchise superstar without sacrificing Brandon Ingram or the No. 2 pick in this year’s draft, the juice could be well worth the squeeze for the Purple and Gold.

The Lakers, though, won’t be the only team hot on Paul George’s heels heading into the 2017 draft.
The Cleveland Cavaliers, for one, seem eager to add either of the Central Division’s most wanted wings (i.e. George, Chicago’s Jimmy Butler). According to the Cleveland Plain Dealer’s Joe Vardon, David Griffin, whose tenure as general manager of the Cavs ended abruptly on Monday evening, “left for his successors [the] potential trades to bring either Chicago's Jimmy Butler or Indiana's Paul George to the team.”
In all likelihood, that would spell the end of Kevin Love’s three-year tenure in The Land. Cleveland would need to find a third team to take Love and send some combination of picks and young players to either the Bulls or Pacers, per multiple reports.
Perhaps the Portland Trail Blazers, who play in Love’s home state of Oregon, would give up a pick or two from their stash this year, another future selection and one of their signees from last summer (Allen Crabbe, anyone?) to get a deal done.
Would the Boston Celtics willingly engage their top conference competition in a deal that wouldn’t land them a coveted wing, but rather a player, in Love, with the rebounding ability to help fortify Gang Green’s weak front line? That could depend on the price, with Boston’s stash of picks and attractive contracts (i.e. Marcus Smart, Jae Crowder, Tyler Zeller, Terry Rozier) potentially on the line.
The Phoenix Suns, whom Vardon cited as a potential partner, could also put together a package built around productive veterans (Eric Bledsoe, Brandon Knight), intriguing youngsters (T.J. Warren, Dragan Bender, Marquese Chriss, Alan Williams) and picks to facilitate a trade.
All that’s certain is, if the Cavs get a deal done for Butler or George, it won’t be a simple swap.

Then again, the Cavaliers might not be in the running for Jimmy Buckets, if he has his druthers. According to NBA.com’s David Aldridge, Butler “has informed Cavs that he wants to stay in Chicago rather than be traded to Cleveland.”
That doesn’t mean the Bulls have to heed his wishes. If the powers-that-be in the Windy City decide they would rather reset their roster, albeit with an aging Dwyane Wade returning, they still have that right. The Chicago Tribune’s K.C. Johnson reported that the team, in fact, “remain[s] active in talks on Butler.”
Boston has taken multiple shots at Butler in recent years—even recent days. According to CSN Chicago’s Vincent Goodwill, the Celtics turned down an opportunity to acquire the Bulls All-Star in exchange for the No. 3 pick in this year’s draft.
That doesn’t mean, though, that you won’t hear more about these two teams tangoing again before long. The C’s are up to their eyeballs in future draft considerations, prospects stashed overseas and young veterans on cap-friendly contracts. Surely, general manager Danny Ainge could concoct some combination therein to get a deal done.
But that wouldn’t necessarily require Boston to do its wheeling and dealing by draft night. Those other assets will all be available after July 1. Butler, on the other hand, might not be if the Bulls find a deal they like before then.

Should the Celtics continue to balk at the Bulls’ asking price for Butler, they could take another look at Paul George. Boston reportedly went after George at the February trade deadline.
Granted, that was more than four months ago. Trading anything of value now for George might get the Celtics no more than a one-year rental—something in which Danny Ainge and company have no interest, per Basketball Insiders’ Steve Kyler.
That tidbit hit the Twittersphere on Sunday, which is practically eons ago in NBA offseason time. If the Cavs can’t scrape together a viable package for PG-13 and the Lakers are unwilling to part with more than a pair of late first-round picks and a young role player, couldn’t the Celtics swoop in with a better offer that still leaves them with a full cup for now and the future?
Those 2019 picks from the Memphis Grizzlies and Los Angeles Clippers could be useful. So could the rights to French forward Guerschon Yabusele, who spent last season in China.
Throw in Tyler Zeller’s non-guaranteed deal for 2017-18 and, say, Marcus Smart, and Boston could be in business for one superstar with some wiggle room to chase another in free agency this summer.

Maybe the Celtics won’t keep the No. 3 pick and won’t deal it for an established star.
Huh? How does that work?
By trading down. According to The Ringer’s Kevin O’Connor, Boston, which already swapped spots with Philadelphia, has explored moving down even further—and for good reason.
“This draft is unusually loaded with top prospects who would arguably go no. 1 in a ‘normal year,’” O’Connor wrote, “so it’s hard to look at historical numbers as valuable.”
While the C’s seem keen to add Duke’s Jayson Tatum to their stockpile of young talent, they’re not exactly short on enticing options on the wing. Jae Crowder has molded himself into a more-than-serviceable two-way forward. Jaylen Brown, the No. 3 pick in last year’s draft, showed flashes of potential stardom during his rookie season.
And that’s before Boston either trades for an All-Star swingman (Butler, George) or signs one in free agency (Gordon Hayward).
The C’s, then, might be best served by sitting out the top of this draft and adding more ammunition for another day, when they’ll have a clearer need to fill and more pressure to fill it amid exploding contract demands from incumbent veterans.

If there’s any darkhorse that could swoop in for a draft-day blockbuster, it’s the Houston Rockets. They won’t have a first-round pick at their disposal on Thursday, but they will have all of their future picks to offer and at least one attractive asset to dangle: Patrick Beverley. According to Sporting News’ Sean Deveney, the Rockets have been “actively shopping” their starting shooting guard.
General manager Daryl Morey shouldn’t have any trouble finding teams interested in Beverley, even in a league that’s already overflowing with floor generals. The 28-year-old Chicago native has established himself as a threat from three-point range (37.5 percent of his career) and one of the league’s most dogged defenders at his position.
Moreover, Beverley’s contract might be one of the NBA’s best values. He’ll make $5.5 million next season and $5 million in 2018-19.
Package him with a present youngster (Clint Capela? Sam Dekker?), a future pick and some salary filler, and the Rockets could find themselves in fine position to snag a second fiddle for James Harden, whether that’s Paul George, Jimmy Butler or someone who has yet to get sucked into the rumor mill.

Just when you thought the lead-up to the 2017 draft couldn’t get any crazier, ESPN.com’s Chris Haynes reported that the Los Angeles Clippers were shopping DeAndre Jordan.
Among L.A.’s initial targets: the Phoenix Suns. Per Haynes, the Clippers didn’t get far after asking the Suns for Tyson Chandler and the No. 4 pick in this year’s draft as recompense for their All-Star center.
That could be just the start of any sweepstakes involving Jordan. Phoenix has more than its fair share of other players already on-hand who could appeal to the Clippers, now featuring Jerry West as a consigliere to Doc Rivers and Lawrence Frank.
Perhaps L.A. would consider bringing back Eric Bledsoe, who got his start in the NBA as a Clippers draftee. Maybe T.J. Warren, who would help L.A. address its deficiency on the wing, becomes expendable with Kansas’ Josh Jackson or Duke’s Jayson Tatum available to Phoenix in this year’s draft.
Or, the Clippers could find another taker elsewhere. Either way, it should come as no surprise that this club is looking to shake things up now that The Logo is on board, the Golden State Warriors have raised the bar and Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and J.J. Redick are among eight Clippers (not including the retiring Paul Pierce) who could bolt in free agency this summer.

The Portland Trail Blazers already have 15 players under contract for next season—including three on non-guaranteed deals—with a payroll that could soar past $140 million.
And that’s before factoring in three first-round selections: Nos. 15, 20 and 26.
In theory, the Blazers could package two or more of those picks together as a means of moving up in this year’s draft. Or, they could use their selections to clear off some of the expensive salaries they added last summer.
According to CSN Northwest’s Jason Quick, Portland wants to hang onto its own slot at No. 15 but may well Nos. 20 and 26, acquired respectively from Memphis and Cleveland, to lighten its financial load.
There aren’t quite as many teams with cap space to burn this summer as there were in 2016. Still, with squads like Brooklyn, Phoenix, Philadelphia and Sacramento sporting financial flexibility amid their rebuilds, there should be a team out there that’s intrigued enough by Allen Crabbe, Meyers Leonard or even Evan Turner to take one on with a pick to sweeten the pot.

Last spring, the Detroit Pistons were come off their first playoff appearance since 2009. Granted, it was a brief one—a four-game sweep at the hands of the eventual champion Cleveland Cavaliers—but an important step forward for the franchise nonetheless.
Now, the Pistons find themselves back in the lottery, once again looking for a way out. Even in a draft as deep as this year’s, they may have difficulty finding a player at No. 12 who can help vault them back into the East’s top eight.
It’s no wonder, then, that Detroit is looking to exchange its shot at a young prospect for more immediate help.
"Jeff (general manager Bower) is on the phone constantly and we're talking to people and every deal gets evaluated on whether or not we think it makes us better," Pistons head coach and president Stan Van Gundy said, per MLive.com’s Ansar Khan. "It's tough trading a draft pick for an established veteran guy just in terms of money and things like that. Not only getting the deal done, but then when you're looking at your structure and trying to manage your salary, not having those rookie scale contracts is big, so it's not an easy thing.”
Finances figure to get tight in the Motor City this summer, even with Aron Baynes opting out of his $6.5 million contract for next season. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope is entering restricted free agency. So is Reggie Bullock. Stanley Johnson’s continued growth could cover for both in the event that Detroit decides to pass on paying its own guys beaucoup bucks.
Still, shunting Caldwell-Pope, in particular, would hardly leave the Pistons with enough to pursue even a mid-level free agent. Thus, offering up the 12th pick may be Detroit’s best bet to add a helpful veteran this offseason.

Perhaps the Utah Jazz will be among those teams to inquire with the Pistons about their real estate in the draft lottery. According to KUTV’s Spencer Checketts, the Jazz have “made inquiries” about leaping into the lottery.
Utah has both the means and the motivation to make such a move. To the former, they have the 24th and 30th picks in this year’s draft along with some contracts (Alec Burks) and intriguing youngsters (Dante Exum, Rodney Hood, Trey Lyles) to further encourage potential trade partners.
As for the reasoning behind such a step up the ladder, it’s more a matter of doomsday preparation in the Beehive State.
The threat of Gordon Hayward leaving Salt Lake City is real—and for the Utah Jazz, it’s anything but spectacular. According to ESPN’s Marc Stein, the Miami Heat intend to join the Boston Celtics and Jazz in the summer sweepstakes for Hayward’s services.
Utah may hope for the best with Hayward, but it’s only prudent for the franchise to prepare for the worst. That could mean chasing veterans to fill the gap and keep the Jazz competitive.
Or, in this case, targeting another prospect who might be equipped to step into Hayward’s shoes in a few years.
All stats via NBA.com and Basketball Reference unless otherwise noted.
Josh Martin covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, and listen to his Hollywood Hoops podcast with B/R Lakers lead writer Eric Pincus.

The cost of NBA championship contention is steep. After reeling off two world titles in three seasons, the Golden State Warriors embark on this offseason facing the difficult task of roster-building on a budget.
The good news is the infrastructure should remain historically strong. All-Stars Klay Thompson and Draymond Green are already under contract, and barring a dramatic departure from expectations, former MVPs Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant should both have new deals in short order.
The free-agency path from there is uncertain. The collective costs of Curry and Durant could determine how much of the supporting cast can be retained.
The Dubs could have as many as 10 free agents, meaning in all likelihood there will be multiple roster vacancies to fill. But with very little money to do so, Golden State will court ring-chasers and sift through the clearance bin of players either past their primes or working to re-establish their values.
Nothing about that sounds sexy, but these five under-the-radar targets could provide substance nonetheless.

On the surface, Jodie Meeks shouldn't be hurting for free-agency suitors. Not when his biggest strength happens to be the primary focus of today's NBA.
The 29-year-old is a marksman. His career 37.6 three-point percentage would have trailed only the Splash Brothers on this season's Warriors, and even that's not a perfect reflection of Meeks' touch. He converted 40.9 percent from distance on 3.8 attempts a night this season and hit 40.1 percent on 5.2 per game in 2013-14.
If his hoops narrative stopped there, he'd have his pick of eight-figure pacts this summer. But injuries have sabotaged his value, potentially putting him in the Warriors' price range on a one-year, prove-it arrangement.
He missed 22 games in 2014-15, and that was by far the healthiest he's been in recent years. He's played just 39 games and underwent three surgeries—two on his foot, one on his thumb—over the two seasons since.
Oakland could be the perfect place to re-establish himself. The Warriors wouldn't need him to play major minutes or step outside of his role. He'd get a fluorescent green light and the opportunity to feast on catch-and-shoot jumpers. Without proper spacing on the shooting-starved Orlando Magic, he hit 43.6 percent of his catch-and-fire threes—10th among players with three-plus attempts per game, just behind Klay Thompson.
Assuming Ian Clark bolts the Bay in free agency, Meeks could quickly settle in as a spark-plug sniper.

Anthony Morrow and the Warriors joined forces before. Golden State grabbed the undrafted free agent out of Georgia Tech in 2008, then watched him lead the NBA in three-point shooting as a rookie (46.7 percent) and outshoot then-teammate Stephen Curry as a sophomore (45.6 percent to 43.7).
"I'm not saying he's with these guys...but just going by how they shoot, he's right up there with the Reggie Millers, Chris Mullins and Ray Allens," then-Warriors assistant Keith Smart said in 2009, per Janny Hu of the San Francisco Chronicle. "He can shoot with those guys."
That feels like a lifetime ago, for Morrow and the Warriors. The 6'5" shooting guard will turn 32 before the start of next season and wasn't a full-time player this past one. After never having converted fewer than 37.1 percent of his long-range looks, his perimeter success rate plunged to 30.8.
But Golden State knows he can stroke. Anyone with a stat sheet can see that. Even with his recent struggles, his career three-point percentage sits at a robust 41.7, the seventh-highest mark over that stretch (minimum 500 attempts). The downturn will be the biggest determinant of his next deal, but his track record should ensure another contract will come his way.
His three ball is threatening enough that he can make an impact without accruing any stats. That's important, because offensive opportunities could come few and far between. He's dead weight on defense, but if the Dubs can hide him, they'll benefit from his presence the other way. A good guy to have in the locker room, he also has a history with Curry going back to their high school days in Charlotte, N.C.

Unlike the first two players listed, Nene is no reclamation project. That's the title he took into last summer, when he settled on a one-year, $2.9 million deal with the Houston Rockets after completing a five-year, $67 million contract.
The Rockets already revived him. Their spread-out, small-ball system breathed new life into the 34-year-old, who shot a career-best 61.7 percent while flushing more dunks than he had since 2010-11 (95).
"This place, was a blessing for me," Nene said, per Jonathan Feigen of the Houston Chronicle. "They brought me back. They brought the real Nene back."
But his return to Houston seems far from guaranteed. The Rockets are on their annual big-game hunt. They will reportedly meet with All-Star free agent Chris Paul, an executive told Broderick Turner of the Los Angeles Times, and have discussed trading for Paul George with the Indiana Pacers, sources told ESPN.com's Marc Stein. Internally, they're focused on working out another extension with James Harden, per Feigen.
With the Rockets' attention elsewhere, someone else could swoop in and steal Nene. It'd have to the right team, though, a win-now contender who could limit his minutes and provide him the same type of spacing.
Assuming he isn't exorbitantly priced—a safe bet given his age and injury history—the Warriors should hound him. He could do the same grunt work as Zaza Pachulia, since Nene already thrives in screen assists, post-up defense and pick-and-rolls. Only, Nene would also bring more athleticism, better jump-shooting and far superior point-blank finishing (70.8 percent shooting in the restricted area to Pachulia's 59.5).

It seems less a question of if the Warriors will need to reinforce their wings, but rather how much adjusting they'll need to do. The departure of either Andre Iguodala or Shaun Livingston would create a void on the defensive end. Losing Clark would subtract some of the squad's shooting.
Thabo Sefolosha could potentially help on both fronts.
He'd definitely help the defense. The 6'7" swingman—who ranked seventh among small forwards with a 2.27 defensive real plus-minus, per ESPN.com—has the size, smarts and skill to get plugged into Golden State's switch-happy scheme. And while his distance shooting has declined of late (32.9 percent over the last three seasons), he had a two-year run of 42.2 percent sniping alongside Kevin Durant in Oklahoma City.
Adding Sefolosha now is buying low, which is about all the Warriors can do with their cap constraints. The question is whether the 33-year-old has just regressed or simply bottomed out.
"After injury concerns struck during the tail end of the season and he became virtually unplayable throughout the Atlanta Hawks' first-round loss to the Washington Wizards, fears that the defensive ace is past his prime have become fully justifiable," Bleacher Report's Adam Fromal wrote.
Golden State's interest in Sefolosha could hinge on its roster makeup. If defensive versatility is a need, he's worth a look. If spacing is the greater concern, there might be better options out there.

Remember how far from relevance JaVale McGee found himself last summer? That's about where Tiago Splitter sits now.
He's missed 120 games over the past two seasons and at least 23 in each of the last four. Before his 2016-17 season debut in March—which was preceded by an NBA Developmental League stint—he'd gone more than a year without playing, following hip surgery with strains to his hamstring and calf.
But he could be a gamble worth taking. While he's 32 years old, he only has 355 NBA games on his odometer. He's an efficient scorer from close range, an active presence on the glass and a sturdy interior defender. He's also well-versed in movement-oriented offenses, having spent his entire career under Gregg Popovich and two of his disciples, Mike Budenholzer and Brett Brown.
"He's just a blue-collar workhorse that is an elite screener, an elite roller," Brown said, per CSN Philly's Steven Tydings. "I know in my Spurs days with him, he was as good as we had coached on the assist from the roll."
The Warriors sort of lucked their way into a workable center rotation this past season. McGee went from afterthought to dependable rotation piece, while Pachulia and David West tag-teamed the physical duties. But all three are bound for free agency, meaning one or more might need replacing.
If Splitter can get healthy, he could not only fill one of those spots, he might even be an upgrade.
Statistics used courtesy of NBA.com and Basketball Reference.
Zach Buckley covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @ZachBuckleyNBA.

Teams are finalizing their boards for the 2017 NBA draft with workouts nearly complete.
Most will rank the prospects and separate them into tiers. 
It looks as if there will be a dozen players who'll go in the second round but likely received strong consideration in the late first. The difference between No. 20 and No. 40 isn't big.
At the top, the best 10-14 names should look familiar, though there has still been movement within our lottery rankings and projections leading up to Thursday's event.
     
Stats via ESPN.com, RealGM.com, NBA.com, Hoop-Math.com and Sports Reference unless otherwise noted. Height and weight information via DraftExpress or school bios unless otherwise noted.
Jonathan Wasserman covers the NBA draft for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @NBADraftWass.   

50. PJ Dozier (South Carolina, SG/SF, Sophomore)
Dozier would have had a shot at going in the first round in 2018 had he come back and improved his jumper. He's intriguing due to his 6'6" size, ball-handling and defensive potential, but he's too raw to love after two years at South Carolina.
     
49. Damyean Dotson (Houston, SG, Senior)
Dotson made 108 threes and will try to stick as a shooting specialist from the 2-guard spot.
    
48. Wesley Iwundu (Kansas State, SG/SF, Senior)
Iwundu's point forward versatility is alluring. He'll just have to ease concerns over his jumper and the fact he doesn't have a signature strength.
      
47. Alec Peters (Valparaiso, PF, Senior)
Peters should get second-round looks just for his shot-making. And he's just been cleared to start working out after missing months with a leg injury.
     
46. Edmond Sumner (Xavier, PG, Sophomore)
A torn ACL hasn't stopped Sumner from visiting teams. He'll be a second-round boom-or-bust option, with his athleticism fueling the boom and the injury and weak jumper behind his bust potential. 
    
45. Dillon Brooks (Oregon, SF, Junior)
Brooks' toughness and scoring versatility will give him a chance, but a lack of size (6'6"), length (6'6" wingspan) and athleticism will make it difficult at both ends.
     
44. Tyler Dorsey (Oregon, SG, Sophomore)
Dorsey lacks explosiveness and length, but he's worth taking for his scoring and shooting ability. He'll become a lot more valuable if he can use his handle to create for others.
    
43. Thomas Bryant (Indiana, PF/C, Sophomore)
Bryant doesn't explode off the floor, but if he can show during workouts his improved three-point numbers were legitimate, he'll have the chance to be the player Adreian Payne never could.
     
42. Dwayne Bacon (Florida State, SG/SF, Sophomore)
All-around inconsistency has held Bacon back. His physical tools for a wing and athleticism should buy him time, though. Bacon has a standout NBA body (6'6", 221 lbs) and the skill set to score from all three levels.
     
41. Ivan Rabb (California, PF/C, Sophomore)
Rabb has gradually tumbled down the board because he hasn't shown the shooting range or defensive versatility NBA coaches value. He's still worth looking at in the 25-45 range for his hands and motor around the basket.

40. Frank Mason III (Kansas, PG, Senior)
Mason's size (6'0") and age (23) will hurt his stock, but he'll have a chance with his toughness and shooting. He could be one of the more undervalued prospects in the draft.
          
39. Frank Jackson (Duke, PG, Freshman)
Jackson is recovering from minor foot surgery, which kept him quiet during workout season. He's still worth looking at beginning in the 20s based on his strength, athleticism, shooting and point guard defense.
     
38. Tyler Lydon (Syracuse, PF, Sophomore)
Lydon's shooting will keep him alive in the first-round mix. Questions over his defense and ability to make plays off the dribble could push him into Round 2.
   
37. Josh Hart (Villanova, SG, Senior)
Hart's toughness and versatility are his big selling points. Concerns over his athleticism and ability to create, along with the fact he's a senior, are keep him from going in the first round.
      
36. Tony Bradley (North Carolina, PF/C, Freshman)
Bradley could sneak into the first round after rising during workouts. His physical profile (6'11", 249 lbs) jumps out first. He's a big target around the basket with soft hands and a nose for the ball. A mid-range jumper makes Bradley a steal this late, even if it takes him a few years to develop. 
      
35. D.J. Wilson (Michigan, SF/PF, Sophomore)
Wilson suddenly went into hiding after the combine. There haven't been any reports of him working out anywhere and his agent won't make any statements. His flashes of versatility in the postseason got NBA scouts talking. Now, it seems possible he may have a first-round promise.
     
34. Jonah Bolden (Australia, SF/PF, 1996)
Bolden has created buzz for his athleticism and shooting in Serbia after leaving UCLA. His unique game background and production overseas could make him intriguing enough to look at in the 20s.
     
33. Caleb Swanigan (Purdue, PF/C, Sophomore)
Swanigan worked out for a ridiculous 20 teams and could be the top rebounder in the draft. He'll stick if the shooting improvement he showed this year was a sign of more to come.
        
32. Terrance Ferguson (USA, SF, 1998)
Having worked out for the Charlotte Hornets, Ferguson could go high as No. 11, but as low as No. 30. He'd have to convince teams his jumper and ball skills are better than what he showed this year in Australia. 
        
31. Johnathan Motley (Baylor, PF/C, Junior)
Motley is back working out after a minor knee surgery in April. He was a bully at Baylor and developed impressive mid-range shooting touch. He'll have a chance to carve out a backup big-man role with his strength, length and scoring around the key.

Mathias Lessort is working out in the United States after having one of the most productive years overseas of any international prospect.
The 21-year-old has an obvious NBA body (6'9", 250 lbs) powered by a live motor. Lessort picks up baskets at the rim by sprinting the floor, crashing the glass and rolling to the hoop.
He'll have a shot to go in the first round more so for his floor than ceiling. Lessort's chances of carving out a supporting energy role appear high. His odds of becoming anything more seem low.

Kyle Kuzma flew under the radar at Utah before blowing up at the NBA combine. He's become a first-round name to watch, as he has the versatility at the 4 every team covets.
Kuzma combines power forward size (6'10", 223 lbs) with a projectable stroke and playmaking ability as a ball-handler and passer.
The team to watch with Kuzma could be the Atlanta Hawks, who've already brought him in for two workouts, one before the combine and one after. He's a sleeper pick in the Nos. 16-30 range. Otherwise, Kuzma shouldn't last long in Round 2.

Late-first-round teams interested in adding a backup point guard could have Jawun Evans highlighted on their board.
He's worked out for the Indiana Pacers, Oklahoma City Thunder, Portland Trail Blazers and Utah Jazz. 
Being one of the only guards worth considering in the Nos. 13-30 range should work to Evans' benefit. It's reasonable to think a general manager could find him more interesting than a leftover energy big.
A team could value his playmaking and ability to break down defenses, even if it's not sold on Evans' scoring potential, given his limited size (6'0"), explosiveness and three-point sample size (135 attempts in two seasons).

Isaiah Hartenstein is in the United States after playing limited minutes with Zalgiris in Lithuania for the 2016-17 season.
He's given scouts enough material to analyze over the years, though, from Eurocamp and Basketball Without Borders Global Camp to FIBA play and the Nike Hoop Summit. 
The idea of Hartenstein sounds more attractive than the current version, though, which doesn't excel in any one area. But at 7'0", he's flashed NBA-friendly versatility, with three-point range, ball-handling skills, rebounding motor and passing instincts.

Bam Adebayo received an invite to the green room and should go in the teens or late 20s. 
He didn't show enough skill for this year's top 10, though we did see flashes of post footwork and touch on his jump hook and free throws. He separates himself with power and explosiveness that translate to easy baskets and second-chance points. 
The Portland Trail Blazers, Milwaukee Bucks, Indiana Pacers, and Utah Jazz could be mid- to late-first-round suitors.

Semi Ojeleye, who's worked out for late-first and early-second-round teams, offers a unique blend of power and shooting at the small-ball 4 position. 
The Brooklyn Nets, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz, Orlando Magic, Portland Trail Blazers and Los Angeles Lakers are all teams in the 20s that can use a big to stretch the floor.
There are some questions about the 6'7" forward's defense, but his jumper and ability to drive could cause problems for bigger, slower power forwards.

O.G. Anunoby received a last-minute invite to the green room. It suggests he shouldn't fall too far, despite going down with a season-ending knee injury after shooting just 31.1 percent from three during a projected breakout year.
Scouts still buy into Anunoby's defensive potential, which comes from his strength, length (7'2" wingspan) and signature quickness. He'll look to follow Andre Roberson, who's built up his value by locking down and guarding multiple positions, despite offering little offensively.
Anunoby did shoot a ridiculous 70.1 percent inside the arc, a tribute to his tools and athleticism. But he'll need that jumper to come around, given his limitations as a ball-handler and shot-creator.

Ike Anigbogu's NBA identity and role are clear. He'll draw looks in the Nos. 15-30 range for his rim protection and overall physical presence inside. 
At 252 pounds with an enormous 7'6" wingspan and quick feet, he patrols the paint defensively and finishes inside off dives, dump-offs, lobs and putbacks.
Having played just 13.0 minutes per game as a freshman without any projectable skills, Anigbogu is likely looking at mostly G League playing time as a rookie. But a team trying to beef up its front line and find the next Clint Capela—the Milwaukee Bucks, Portland Trail Blazers, Toronto Raptors—could consider Anigbogu as its next project.

Jordan Bell turned heads during the NCAA tournament before making even more noise at the NBA combine. 
He's trending upward, earning praise for his explosiveness, motor and defensive quickness. Bell has proved to be capable of impacting a game without needing touches.
He worked out for a number of teams drafting early in the second round, but also some late-first-round franchises, including the Portland Trail Blazers and Utah Jazz. Both have multiple picks in the 20s.
There won't be any confusion regarding Bell's role. He's an energizer and defensive specialist.

TJ Leaf could go anywhere from No. 13 to the late first round with his coveted skill set and questionable tools/athleticism.
He's earned interest for his shooting and ability to put the ball on the floor and make a play off the dribble. Leaf also brings energy and competitiveness, which helps compensate for his limited strength and explosiveness.
He's being viewed as a role-playing stretch 4 who'll fit in nicely but may have trouble defending starting-caliber NBA bigs.

Jarrett Allen isn't the most exciting prospect, but he comes off as a surefire NBA player, which is enough to draw mid-first-round interest. 
He worked out for the Detroit Pistons and Denver Nuggets, who have picks in the lottery. Teams will value Allen's finishing and potential in rim protection with his giant 7'5" wingspan. But he's also flashed mid-range touch and post moves that suggest he may have some offensive game. 
If not Detroit or Denver, the Milwaukee Bucks and Portland Trail Blazers jump out as mid-first-round suitors.

Nobody has risen more than Derrick White since the season ended. An impressive Portsmouth Invitational earned him an invite to the NBA combine, where he was one of the standout prospects among mostly second-rounders during five-on-fives.
Some scouts now view him as a legitimate first-round option. White projects as a combo at the 2, where he can create his own shot and score or facilitate as a secondary playmaker.
He even earned himself workouts with a pair of lottery teams, the Charlotte Hornets and Denver Nuggets. White's draft range is as wide as any prospect's.

Intrigue alone could force a team to bite on Anzejs Pasecniks in the Nos. 15-30 range. At 7'2", he moves unusually well and effortlessly lifts off the floor around the rim. 
Pasecniks is notably thin, but he still plays high above the rim for easy finishes off dives, cuts, lobs and putbacks. And he's flashed enough shooting touch and range to suggest his jumper will eventually be a weapon.
The Portland Trail Blazers are the only team he's publicly worked out for, though he did have a pro day with NBA scouts and executives on hand.

Harry Giles hasn't run into any issues (at least not publicly) regarding his knees or medicals during workouts. 
Nothing can erase the injury history that highlights two torn ACLs and a third procedure that cost him his first 11 games at Duke. The risk alone with Giles may make him difficult to draft in the lottery.
But as long as doctors don't reveal any long-term damage, he's still a gamble worth taking in the Nos. 15-30 range. Giles, whose tools are textbook for a power forward, should bring solid energy and activity to some team's paint.
The Milwaukee Bucks, Indiana Pacers, Atlanta Hawks, Portland Trail Blazers and Brooklyn Nets are squads to watch.

Justin Patton has been busy. He's worked out for four late-lottery teams, including the Charlotte Hornets, Detroit Pistons, Denver Nuggets and Miami Heat.
The upside with Patton is obvious—he aces the eye test with size (6'11", 229 lbs), length (7'3" wingspan) and mobility, and he's flashed enough offensive versatility, from post moves and handles to passing and shooting range.
The questions with Patton are about his toughness and lack of polish. He didn't rebound at a high rate (6.2 per game), and outside of finishing at the rim, he's overly raw without any go-to skill to lean on. 
His draft range is wide. Look for Patton, a perceived boom-or-bust prospect, to go anywhere from No. 11 down to the late first round.

There has been positive buzz on John Collins, who's showing off explosive bounce and underrated shooting range we never saw at Wake Forest. 
There are concerns about his defensive awareness, but his offensive upside should help ease them once all the flashy one-and-done names are off the board. 
Collins led the country in player efficiency rating (33.3) and brings standout NBA tools, athleticism and motor, as well as a budding skill set within 18 feet that features a mid-range jumper, low-post game and high-level finishing ability. 

Luke Kennard is gaining steam with his jumper in workouts that could launch him as far as No. 8 to the New York Knicks.
Teams are confident in Kennard's ability to make shots, while his tremendous skill level and volume production at Duke help neutralize concerns tied to his suspect athleticism and strength.
He isn't viewed as a future star; rather, he's a high-end role player with a high floor and coveted shooting.

Donovan Mitchell could have a few key, last-minute, top-10 workouts—one for the New York Knicks and the other for the Dallas Mavericks, per ESPN's Ian Begley. 
He's risen on boards after improving his shot-making skills dramatically from one year to the next, having hit 80 threes as a sophomore and just 18 his freshman year.
Mitchell, who's widely praised for his character, offers an enticing mix of power, explosiveness, defensive quickness and confident scoring ability. He could benefit on draft night from there being so few guards worth taking in the mid- to late first round.
If not the Knicks or Mavericks, the Sacramento Kings, Charlotte Hornets and Detroit Pistons will also be options. Mitchell won't make it to the Portland Trail Blazers at No. 15.

Lauri Markkanen hasn't publicly worked out for many teams. The highest he could go is to the Orlando Magic at No. 6. They could value his shooting, as could the Minnesota Timberwolves at the 4 between Andrew Wiggins and Karl-Anthony Towns. 
Markkanen's jumper is the real deal. The question is how much teams should worry about his athleticism, defense, rebounding and 32 assists through 37 games. 
The Charlotte Hornets have Frank Kaminsky, the Detroit Pistons are loaded at power forward and the Denver Nuggets already can't get stops. If he gets past the Sacramento Kings at No. 10, it's possible Markkanen falls to the Miami Heat (No. 14), a team he'd fit perfectly on as a stretch 4.

Zach Collins worked out for the Phoenix Suns and even the Los Angeles Lakers.
He's going to be an option for the Dallas Mavericks at No. 9 and Sacramento Kings at No. 10. It's difficult to see him falling outside the lottery. 
Collins stands out with 7-foot size, light feet and a high skill level highlighted by back-to-the-basket moves and shooting touch. He only played 17.3 minutes a game for Gonzaga against mostly weak competition, but with post footwork, a promising jumper and shot-blocking potential, Collins could be the most well-rounded center in the class.

Justin Jackson worked out mostly for mid-first-round teams, though he did visit the New York Knicks, who are picking at No. 8. 
He has a lot going for him entering draft week, including production at North Carolina, coveted shooting and well-recognized character that should have earned him support during interviews.
Jackson's jumper suddenly clicked his junior year, leading to 18.3 points per game and a Tar Heel record 105 made threes. Teams should feel good about his ability to make shots and score within an offense off screens, curls and spot-ups.
The Detroit Pistons, Denver Nuggets and Chicago Bulls are the most realistic suitors for Jackson in the Nos. 12-16 range.

Malik Monk worked out for the Philadelphia 76ers (No. 1), Phoenix Suns (No. 4), Orlando Magic (No. 6) and New York Knicks (No. 8).
Despite the fit, he won't end up in Philadelphia after its trade up to No. 1 from No. 3, and even No. 4 sounds too high for Monk, an exciting athlete and shot-maker who lacks size (6'4"), length (6'4" wingspan) and playmaking skills. 
The Magic were the worst three-point shooting team in the Eastern Conference, so they're a realistic option. And the Knicks are desperate for guard play.
The Charlotte Hornets at No. 11 look like Monk's draft floor.

With the LNB Pro A Finals still in progress, Frank Ntilikina won't make it over for predraft workouts. 
That isn't likely to stop the New York Knicks or Dallas Mavericks from taking him. Both teams have thoroughly scouted Ntilikina over the past six weeks, and though it's been tough for him to be consistent while playing a limited role, the bright moments outweigh the quiet stretches.
Still 18 years old and playing among pros, he just scored 13 points in a Finals game on Thursday off a season-high six made field goals.
He isn't a blow-by athlete or creative scorer and playmaker; instead, Ntilikina's appeal stems from his defensive potential, shooting and youth. Three-and-D appears to be his floor.

Dennis Smith Jr. could wind up with any team drafting Nos. 6 through 10. 
He'd upgrade the Orlando Magic's point guard position at No. 6 and start right away for the New York Knicks (No. 8). It's tough to imagine him falling past the Dallas Mavericks at No. 9 unless Ntilikina is also available. 
Smith's talent is well-documented—he's arguably the most athletic ball-handler in the draft and has exciting scoring potential. There have just been questions about his decision-making, leadership and inconsistency, which are possible turn-offs, considering his ball-dominant style.

Jayson Tatum was the first player to work out for the Boston Celtics after they traded the No. 1. pick. 
A wing scorer, which each team drafting Nos. 3 through 6 could use, Tatum will be in play for the Celtics, Phoenix Suns, Sacramento Kings and Orlando Magic.
His tools, skill level and production at Duke create the perception he's one of the draft's safer options. Tatum isn't super explosive, shows questionable shot selection and has lapses on defense. But his offensive polish, from his jumper to his footwork, remains convincing.

De'Aaron Fox may make the Los Angeles Lakers think at No. 2, but the Phoenix Suns or Sacramento Kings are more likely destinations as Nos. 4 and 5, respectively. 
Assuming Josh Jackson goes in the top four, the Kings would likely be all over Fox, whose driving and attacking would complement Buddy Hield's perimeter scoring. 
Shooting remains the obvious key to Fox's upside (.478 field-goal percentage at Kentucky), which is fueled by quickness, explosiveness and ball-handling.

Don't sleep on Jonathan Isaac as an option for the Boston Celtics at No. 3. He isn't even working out for teams outside the top four. 
Unique with 6'10" size, face-up ball skills and shooting touch, Isaac jumps off the screen and court through offensive versatility. And though not as productive as the other top forwards, he was efficient, rebounded at a better rate (12 per 40 minutes) and flashed monster defensive potential. 
If not from the Celtics, Isaac should get serious looks from the Phoenix Suns and Orlando Magic. Don't expect him to be there for the New York Knicks at No. 8.

Josh Jackson's athleticism and offensive versatility fuel exciting two-way potential. But to reach it, there is a lot he'll have to improve on skill-wise, most notably his ball-handling and jumper.
Still, he's flashed enough promise in both departments to create optimism. And even if he fails to make significant strides, Jackson's slashing, passing and ability to guard three positions should hold plenty of value. 
Jackson comes off as a Justise Winslow-type role player at the least. At best, we could be looking at another Andre Iguodala, depending how much he develops as a perimeter scorer.

Lonzo Ball checks in at No. 2, where he's likely to wind up going on draft night.
There is little risk tied to his unique vision and passing, which seems guaranteed to translate to high assist totals and more open looks for teammates.
Whether he can develop into an All-Star guard comes down to how much pressure he can put on the defense as a scorer and shooter. At UCLA, we saw his three-ball but no real in-between game with the pull-up or floater.
Still, it's easier to picture his changing a team's direction or identity than Jackson, Fox, Tatum or Isaac.

Apparently, Markelle Fultz wasn't No. 1 for Boston Celtics general manager Danny Ainge. But he remains No. 1 for Bleacher Report after starting the season atop our board and averaging 23.2 points and 5.9 assists.
The Philadelphia 76ers will acquire their lead guard of the future. Fultz, a scoring playmaker, fits the mold of the ideal, modern-day primary ball-handler. 
With Fultz's unbeatable numbers—he was the only player in 25 years to average at least 20 points, five assists and five rebounds and shoot 40 percent from three—along with the tools and athleticism to back them up, the losses at Washington can't factor into the assessment on his long-term potential.

Aron Baynes is evidently banking on a sizable payday this summer.   
Detroit Pistons head coach and team president Stan Van Gundy confirmed Tuesday, per Rod Beard of the Detroit News, that Baynes plans to decline his $6.5 million player option for the 2017-18 season and test the open market as an unrestricted free agent. 
Shams Charania of The Vertical first reported the decision.
A member of the Pistons for the past two seasons, Baynes has played a rotational role behind starting center Andre Drummond. 
This past campaign, Baynes averaged 4.9 points, 4.4 rebounds and 0.5 blocks in 15.5 minutes a night. 
Those numbers wouldn't seem to be worthy of a large raise, but Van Gundy told reporters in February it wouldn't stun him to see Baynes opt out and chase top dollar. 
"I shouldn't be saying anything to increase his value, but he's a very good player, and if he and his agents look around at what some of those guys got who were backups—(Bismack) Biyombo, (Ian) Mahinmi, guys like that—and what they signed contracts for, more than double what Aron's making, it's not too hard to figure out that the guy is probably going to opt out and take his chances in the open market," he said, per MLive.com's Aaron McMann.  
Viewed through that prism—and the fact the salary cap is slated to spike north of $100 million—Baynes' decision to opt out makes sense. 
Van Gundy also maintained that Baynes is a valuable contributor despite his lack of bounce below the free-throw line. 
"He's not a rim protector, or a roll-and-dunk guy, but Aron in his own way protects the basket as well as they do," Van Gundy said, per McMann. "He's probably got more diversified skills."
To Van Gundy's point, opponents actually shot 10.7 percentage points lower than the league average inside of six feet when Baynes operated as a primary defender, per NBA.com's player tracking data. 
Still just 30 years old, Baynes could be in line for a deal that pays him close to eight figures as he seeks to cash out on one last lucrative long-term deal. 

The Washington Wizards reportedly came to terms on an agreement Tuesday to own and operate an NBA G League team beginning in 2018-19.
According to Todd Dybas of the Washington Times, the Wizards will become the 27th of 30 NBA teams to run their own G League affiliate.
As part of the agreement, Washington's G League team will play in a sports and entertainment arena that will be constructed on the St. Elizabeths campus, and is expected to be completed in September 2018.
The NBA announced Tuesday that it was changing the name of the NBA D-League to the G League in conjunction with a partnership with Gatorade.
It also announced that the G League will have 26 teams in 2017-18 after expanding from the 22 it boasted in 2016-17.

The 2010 NBA offseason, which featured LeBron James and Chris Bosh taking their talents to South Beach to join Dwyane Wade, stands alone as the wildest NBA summer in recent memory, but if recent trade rumors are any indication, this year could make a case for being even crazier.
Every hour, a new trade rumor involving an A-list NBA star appears on Twitter, sending fans into a frenzy. Remarkably, the NBA draft and free agency period haven't even occurred yet.
Here's a look at the latest rumors involving three of the NBA's biggest names.
        
Jimmy Butler
It seems like a matter of when and not if Jimmy Butler will be traded at this point given the amount of rumors and teams connected to the Bulls star.
Per Vincent Goodwill of CSN Chicago, the Bulls have put Butler on the trading block: "The Bulls routinely say they'll take phone calls from teams about Butler's availability around this time and at the trade deadline but this time around, multiple sources tell CSNChicago.com the Bulls are doing more than listening: they're shopping Butler to many teams."
Goodwill also mentioned the Boston Celtics, Cleveland Cavaliers, Phoenix Suns and Denver Nuggets in connection with Butler.
Per David Aldridge of TNT, however, the former Marquette star would prefer to stay in the Windy City than head to one of his division rivals:
Per source, Jimmy Butler has informed Cavs that he wants to stay in Chicago rather than be traded to Cleveland.
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical also reported that the Minnesota Timberwolves, who are led by Butler's former Bulls coach (Tom Thibodeau), is in the mix:
Sources: Chicago’s price for Jimmy Butler remains elevated, but Minnesota has assets and interest. Sides made preliminary contact this week.
The C's and T-Wolves have the most to offer the Bulls, as they both have high draft picks and young players.
As far as which team is the best fit for Butler, Boston seems like the bet, especially because it is coming off a 53-win season that culminated in an Eastern Conference Finals appearance.
Butler can slide into the small forward position and help lead a team that could go toe to toe with Cleveland.
That being said, unless the C's want Butler that badly, they could just hold on to all of their assets and pursue another All-Star small forward (Gordon Hayward) in free agency, giving them the potential to create a very deep team.
       
Kristaps Porzingis
Wojnarowski sent Knicks Twitter into crisis mode on Tuesday when he reported that Porzingis' future in New York wasn't set in stone:
Sources: As teams become aware Phil Jackson isn't ruling out possibility of trading Kristaps Porzingis, frenzy of interest is growing today.
Another Woj Bomb followed that tweet, as he reported that a hot-shooting lottery pick could replace KP if he is dealt:
Sources: Phil Jackson met with Lauri Markkanen in New York on Monday, a player whom he's considering at No. 8 should Knicks move Porzingis. s://t.co/44d8EqMoBm
Knicks fans did breathe a sigh of relief when Chris Mannix of The Vertical said that the price for the 21-year-old is very steep:
Growing skepticism among some execs in contact w/New York that the Knicks are serious about a KP deal. Price described as extremely high.
Porzingis is a 7'3", 21-year-old big man who averaged 18.1 points per game last year despite an exhausting amount of team on- and off-court drama (none of which was his fault).
Simply put, the best option is to build around him and cut the extracurricular nonsense that has dominated the New York tabloids. There's nothing else to say except that trading him is a preposterous idea.
        
Paul George
George seems even more certain than Butler to move on this offseason, especially after Wojnarowski broke the news that the 27-year-old told the Pacers he would leave the franchise after his contract ran out following next year, with his preferred choice being the Los Angeles Lakers.
That sparked a slew of rumors regarding teams who could acquire the All-Star, if only for a one-year rental.
Although the Lakers could presumably get George in 2018 without giving up any assets, they have been in contact with Indiana about acquiring PG-13 before next season, per Ramona Shelburne and Marc Stein of ESPN.
A deal might be difficult to pull off, as Shelburne and Stein also noted that the Lakers will not give up the No. 2 overall pick in this year's draft (which seems reserved to pick former UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball at this point) or last year's No. 2 overall pick (Brandon Ingram).
Per Stein, four other teams are also speaking with the Pacers about acquiring George:
The Clippers, Rockets, Wizards and, yes, Cavs are among the teams that have also talked Paul George trades with Indiana, league sources say
It doesn't make sense for the Lakers to get George now, and it doesn't seem like the Pacers would be interested in any package involving him if they aren't getting the second overall pick or Ingram back in return.
Therefore, a team looking to pick up George for a one-year rental is the obvious trade partner. It's anyone's guess as to who that might be, as none of the four teams Stein mentioned have any valuable draft picks of note. In fact, none of them even hold first-rounders this year.
George probably won't be playing in Indiana next season, but it's anyone's guess as to where he will be.

Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert is reportedly expected to continue conversations with Chauncey Billups on Wednesday regarding the team's general manager vacancy, according to ESPN's Jeff Goodman.
Per ESPN's Dave McMenamin, Gilbert interviewed Billups for the job Tuesday.
It was announced Monday that the Cavaliers and general manager David Griffin were parting ways after three years.
Griffin's contract was set to expire, and the sides couldn't reach a new agreement.
Per ESPN.com, Gilbert is familiar with Billups due in part to the five-time All-Star endorsing his company, Rock Financial, during his time as a player with the Detroit Pistons.
The 40-year-old Billups is an ESPN analyst, and he has no front office experience.
He did enjoy a 17-year career as a player, however, that included an NBA championship and an MVP nod in the 2004 NBA Finals.

Greg Monroe has reportedly decided to exercise his player option, sticking with the Milwaukee Bucks for at least another season. 
Shams Charania of The Vertical first reported the decision, with Chris Haynes of ESPN confirming the Bucks had been notified of Monroe's choice.
The 27-year-old will make $17.88 million in the final season of his initial three-year deal.
Monroe has spent the past two seasons with the Bucks after beginning his career with the Detroit Pistons. Coming into the year, he had averaged at least 15 points and eight rebounds per game in five straight seasons.
This run of consistency ended in 2016-17 with Monroe coming off the bench for the first time in his career. He didn't make a single start in 81 appearances, averaging 11.7 points and 6.6 rebounds per game, marking his worst numbers since his rookie year.
Despite the reduced statistics, the center remained a positive influence on an otherwise young team with efficiency that ranked among the best in his career.
Monroe also reached the postseason for the first time, averaging 13.2 points per game in six contests.
"No question, he helped himself with the way he played in the playoffs," a front office official told Gery Woelfel of the Journal Times. "I thought he did a really good job on [Toronto's Jonas] Valanciunas."
Although he had a chance to secure a long-term deal in free agency, it would have been difficult to improve upon the money he will get in the 2017-18 season with Milwaukee.
With a young corps of players that should only get better, the Bucks should be a serious threat in the Eastern Conference next season. The organization hasn't won a playoff series since 2001, but that could change in the upcoming year.
 

PORTLAND — It's the second day of Hoop Summit practice in Portland, Oregon, and Isaiah Hartenstein does not want to be disrupted. The World Team's practice ended 20 minutes ago and the USA Basketball publicist has told him twice that reporters and scouts want to speak with him, but the 7-footer just nods, picks up a basketball, sets his feet and puts up another left-handed hook shot over a trainer.
After making five shots in a row, he seems satisfied and shakes hands with the trainer who was feeding him the ball. But instead of coming over to talk to reporters, he walked over to his father, Florian, who was keeping tabs on the workout from a seat behind the basket. Although Florian had coached Isaiah for years, he hadn't said a word while he watched his son shoot.
There is little resemblance between the two men other than their height and narrow noses. Isaiah is blond, while Florian is half African-American and five shades darker than his fair-skinned son, who says he identifies as a quarter-black.
"A lot of people, when they see my dad, are like, 'Oh, you're black?' And I'm like 'yeah,'" Isaiah said, laughing.
Florian, who played center for the University of Oregon, has taught his son everything he knows about the game and has helped direct Isaiah's unusual path to becoming an NBA prospect.
Now 19 and a projected first-round pick this Thursday, Isaiah spent much of his childhood learning the game while living in Germany, where his father played professionally. More recently, Isaiah passed on the chance to play college basketball in the U.S. to spend the past season playing for a professional team in Lithuania, where the 250-pound teenager has impressed with his versatility, easy ability to space the floor and nimble ball-handling for someone his size. Rather than play NCAA basketball like his father, Isaiah opted to play professionally in Europe before making the jump to the NBA.

"I thought he would be better off staying in Europe," Florian said. "You can do a lot more skill work, and there's always a slight risk for big men who play only at the [center] position in college. And we just thought it was a better fit. I mean, it's different for every player, but in his case, we thought he was better off playing against men."
To hear his family tell it, Isaiah Hartenstein was destined to play basketball. Florian met Isaiah's mother, Theresa, while he was in high school and she was attending Oregon. They later married, and Isaiah was born in 1998 at Sacred Heart Medical Center in Eugene, Oregon.
At the time, Florian was playing basketball for the Ducks. Theresa would shuttle baby Isaiah and his older sister, Jasmine, from their home near campus to Ducks games to watch their dad play.
Isaiah grew up rooting for the Tune Squad to beat the Monstars and watching Brandon Roy play for the Portland Trail Blazers. As a toddler, he would bring his basketball to games at Oregon's Matthew Knight Arena but was told he couldn't throw it during games. And he knew that after late game nights, dad got to sleep in the next day and he shouldn't be bothered.
"Since he was a baby, he never had stuffed animals; he always had a ball," Theresa said. "I tried to get him to play soccer. He didn't like that because there was too much dirt. He tried baseball. That was dirty, too. Football he was, like, 'Yeah, not my thing.' So, he just kept going back to basketball."

After Florian finished at Oregon, he signed with the Giessen 46ers, a professional team in Germany. Theresa and the kids stayed back in Eugene—where most of their extended family lived—so that the kids could start in the American school system. The plan was for Florian to join them back in Eugene after the season ended. Instead, he ended up signing a two-year extension. For three years, Theresa and the kids would shuttle back and forth to Germany every holiday, long weekend or day off from school.
Being apart from his dad was hard for Isaiah. After all, the two not only have similar noses, but also walk similarly and even use some of the same phrases. Isaiah remembers that back then he didn't have FaceTime, so even though they talked on the phone often, it wasn't the same. It was difficult for Florian, too, especially because his own father wasn't in the picture growing up. He didn't want the same for Isaiah. In 2008, after Florian came back for a Christmas visit, it was decided that the separation was too difficult and that the whole family would move back to Quakenbruck, Germany.
"For some people that play overseas, it works for [the family] to stay in the States and the husband to be overseas. But our family is so close, it was so hard for the kids," Theresa said. "I thought anything that we can do here, we can give up. But we can't rewind the clock as they are growing up to keep that bond."

Theresa says the deal was that if the kids did not assimilate well into their new lives in Germany, Florian would finish the season and the whole family would come back together. She says both of them were "willing to make sacrifices" to keep the family together.
Moving to Quakenbruck—which Isaiah describes as "a small farm town" in the northwest corner of Germany—was an adjustment. Both children spoke little German, and soccer, not basketball, was the dominant sport. Isaiah had his father back with him and so he didn't miss the U.S. so much, but still had to make some adjustments. Learning the language was the hardest part.
"All [the other kids] wanted to do was play soccer and video games. Basketball wasn't big over there," Isaiah said. "You had to watch soccer. During recess you weren't playing basketball or football; you were playing soccer. I got used to it after a while."
That didn't stop Isaiah from playing basketball. "As long as he had a gym and a ball and his dad was there, they didn't care," Theresa said.
As Florian recalled: "We had a basketball carpet in the house. We had a basketball hoop, all that kind of stuff. [Basketball] was always part of it. And then once he came over to Germany, again he was in the gym all the time. I had the chance to coach him after that a little bit. And so, we were a basketball family. He never really had a chance to not play."
But basketball wasn't as big a part of school life the way it is in the United States. Instead, Isaiah started his youth career with MTV Giessen before playing for the Artland Dragons in Quakenbruck. In the 2013-14 season, he led Artland to the German championship in the under-16 league and was named the Most Valuable Player. In 2014, he played in the Jordan Brand Classic's International Game and scored four points and snatched five rebounds in 18 minutes.
His play overseas caught the attention of a handful of American colleges, even though he was only 15 years old when he played his first professional game. Although he retained his amateur status through his first year with Artland by choosing to go unpaid, he soon decided to stay in Europe and continue playing professionally, thereby giving up his college eligibility.

"I didn't really feel that I could find the right college fit for me, and I just saw the opportunity to learn a lot and play by [staying overseas]," he explained. "I just wanted to get myself ready. I'm already living by myself."
So after one season with Artland in the BBL—the highest level of German basketball—Isaiah signed a paid contract with the Lithuanian club, Zalgiris Kaunas, where he teamed with former Gonzaga star Kevin Pangos.
Florian believes bypassing the NCAA allowed his son a better opportunity to develop skills he will need in the NBA, such as playing with the ball in his hands and moving around the perimeter.
"Right now is a time where most big guys have to be able to play from the outside," Florian said. "That was one of the goals. We had a feeling that if he were to go to college, he would just clean up around the basket, just because he's 7 feet tall. And in Europe, he has more of a chance—the coaches believe he can also play from the outside. So, I think for his development and the style of basketball he plays, European basketball was better."
Isaiah had to promise Theresa he would go back to school and get a degree, but he's happy with his decision. He got an apartment in Lithuania, the first place he has ever lived in on his own, and his family stayed back in Germany. He arranged for one specific addition in his contract: the approval to play in the Nike Hoop Summit, which held special meaning for him given that he had grown up watching his father play for a school that has become synonymous with the sneaker company.
"For me it was special," Isaiah said. "I looked up to a lot of people that played here. A lot of NBA players came out of here."
The scouts at the Trail Blazers' practice facility murmur about how well Isaiah plays above the rim.
"He's quick, but also very physical," one said.

That combination comes from the "playing against men" plan that Theresa, Florian and Isaiah all point to as one of the key reasons the family decided to have him forgo college. In addition to what he's learned on the court from playing in the pro leagues, Isaiah believes he already carries himself like a rookie, and he hopes that will set him apart in predraft interviews with NBA teams.
You wouldn't know Isaiah is a teenager just by looking at him. His body has filled out, he has broad shoulders and he is well-spoken. His high basketball IQ comes across in his conversations. And his family says he doesn't drink or smoke—something he learned from his parents—nor has he ever had a girlfriend.
"He's watched any kind of video about how to be successful and how the people that are in the industry are successful and also what not to do," Theresa said. "When he was little it was, like, 'I don't have time for a girlfriend; I don't even have time for PlayStation. The day I'm not in the gym, someone else is in the gym getting better than me. So I need to stay grounded and stay focused.' We try to support him in that and tell him that sometimes your attitude off the court will help you in the long run."
There are still potential areas of improvement on the court. Scouting website DraftExpress notes that his perimeter shooting is lacking due to questionable mechanics and that he doesn't always play to his full size.
Some of that was apparent in the World Select Team's loss to Michael Porter and the USA Team in the Hoop Summit game. Hartenstein scored 10 points, had two blocks and four rebounds in front of some childhood friends and local family that came up to Portland to watch him.
"There was stuff that I liked, but for me I was probably a little disappointed," Isaiah said after the game. "I didn't take the game on my back, and I know how I should've performed and I didn't do that."
He doesn't waste much time dwelling on his performance, though. And he doesn't even want to be asked about the NBA draft. He had to get back on a plane the same night to return to his team in Lithuania. After his season ended, he planned to talk to his agent, BJ Armstrong, to decide whether he will make the trip to New York to attend the draft.
Florian, who is now a youth coach in Germany, will help him as he goes back to the drawing board and begins to prepare for the NBA. He compares Isaiah's game to Dirk Nowitzki's and thinks that his biggest challenge in adjusting to the NBA could be speed. But he thinks Isaiah is well-prepared.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
"The NBA is very athletic," Florian said. "That might be a little bit of a challenge. But I believe that [his] physicality will make up for that. And then, at the end of the day, it's just getting used to it. I think he has a lot of potential, and hopefully, he can figure out how to get there."
For the entire Hartenstein family, the long, cross-Atlantic journey to the NBA is now little more than a month away.
"He's given himself a chance to play at the highest level if he wants to," Florian said. "And it's all I could ever want for him. I mean, he's put a lot of work in. He's missed out on a lot of parties and a lot of fun stuff just to be in the gym. He used to be in the gym for four to six hours a day just to work on his stuff. And as a kid, if you have that discipline at that young age…I have a lot of respect for that."
         
Malika Andrews covers baseball and basketball for Bleacher Report, and sports for the New York Times. Her work has previously appeared at the Denver Post, Yahoo Sports and the Associated Press. Follow Malika on Twitter @malika_andrews.

Following last year's DeMarcus Cousins trade, there's a different pre-draft feel for the Sacramento Kings.
There can be no postseason delusions now—no misplaced hopes regarding a .500 record or the eighth seed or competitiveness of any kind. This is a full rebuild in its earliest stages, and though the organization may not be altogether comfortable with its newfound embrace of realism, this is the right place for the Kings to be.
Several more losing seasons loom ahead, adding to the running total of 11 straight.
But at least the losing will be in service of long-term goals. Buddy Hield, Willie Cauley-Stein and Skal Labissiere will take their lumps and, hopefully, learn from them. Head coach Dave Joerger can cultivate identity and instill a collective focus without Cousins clouding everything.
For the first time in over a decade, failure will mean something.
With two top-10 picks and a roster full of holes, the Kings head into the 2017 draft looking to build a foundation.
Here's how they avoid screwing it up.

Sacramento has specific needs, which we'll get to shortly.
But in broad terms, this is an organization without a transformative talent at any position. There are no obvious All-Stars on the roster, and you'd even be hard pressed to find a guy capable of starting for most other teams in the league.
I'm not sure there's ever an excuse for drafting by positional need; rookies are too uncertain, their developmental arcs too protracted to assume the small forward you take today will fill a niche right away. Maybe he'll fill it in three years, but by then, who knows what your other deficiencies will be?
Maybe if you're a championship contender somehow picking at the top of the lottery, and you see an NBA-ready option that perfectly addresses a key weakness, you take that guy ahead of a more talented option at another spot. But that's such a specific scenario, and even then, I'm not sure the logic checks out.
The Kings, of course, are in no such position.
They need talent. Everywhere.
So if that means using their two top-10 picks on big men who might compete with Labissiere and Cauley-Stein for minutes, so be it. Draft those frontcourt rookies, and let them fight for playing time.
Sacramento has seen 12 NBA starts from Labissiere, 60 from Cauley-Stein and 55 from Hield. They're hardly entrenched as stars-in-waiting.
This is the advice for every team in the draft, but it especially applies to the need-everything Kings: Best. Player. Available.

Having said all that, the Kings should zero in on someone who'll run their offense for the next 5-9 years.
That doesn't mean reaching for the fifth-best point guard if, somehow, the first four picks are all players at that position (though it might be as many as three of the first four). It means doing every scrap of homework on De'Aaron Fox and Dennis Smith, two options likely to be available when the Kings' first pick comes up at No. 5.
Is Fox's shot so broken that he simply can't survive in a league where the pull-up three is a prerequisite to point guard excellence?
Did Smith's bouts of terrible body language and mental checkouts on defense signal questionable leadership?
Both have immense potential.
Fox is obscenely fast, can run a pick-and-roll and defends with tenacity. At the absolute worst, he profiles as an elite game-changing spark plug off the bench—a tempo-pusher who'll speed up the game and wreak havoc. Sort of a Patty Mills with way more off-the-bounce juice and way less shooting. You want more than that from a No. 5 pick, but there's something to be said for a high floor.
If Fox learns to hit a jumper and finishes a bit better at the rim, he's got a John Wall ceiling.
Smith has all the physical tools to be great, with explosive bounce standing out as a defining trait. But he has to improve as an intuitive playmaker, and his competitiveness on defense must get better.
If Jayson Tatum, Jonathan Isaac or another player the Kings like more is available, they should punt on the point guard decision until No. 10. But if, as seems likely, they need to snag their 1 of the future here, they'd better know who they want.

It's tempting to discourage the Kings from trading under any circumstances.
A new arena and the relative sanity of moving Cousins hasn't stopped the franchise from projecting an air of instability.
Ailene Voisin of the Sacramento Bee noted how recent front-office additions Luke Bornn and Scott Perry are restoring credibility, but president Chris Granger's resignation signals the Kings are still traffickers in organizational chaos.
Any big swings or asset exchanges make the Kings feel more unstable. That's not fair, but it's where they've put themselves—years away from earning the benefit of the doubt.
If the Lakers hadn't sent D'Angelo Russell to the Brooklyn Nets, per Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical, he would have been worth at least the No. 10 pick. But with him off the market, unless the Phoenix Suns come around dangling Eric Bledsoe for cheap, or some other team offers something undeniable, Sacramento should stand pat.
The Kings should keep their pair of selections and give themselves as many cracks at a franchise-changer as possible.

Things can change, and we don't know who'll be available for the Kings' first selection, but it always helps to have your hierarchy established ahead of time.
Markelle Fultz and Lonzo Ball will be off the board for certain. Here's how the Kings should have their prospects ordered at No. 5, excluding those two surefire top-three selections.
1. Jonathan Isaac, F, Florida State — Isaac is a 6'11", multi-positional forward with a 7'1" wingspan, a defensive motor and the potential to develop his three-point shot into a true weapon. He's thin, isn't a killer one-on-one threat and might get pushed around a bit early on. But he plays hard, has clear offensive skill and looks like an ideally versatile defender in the modern, switch-happy NBA.
2. De'Aaron Fox, G, Kentucky — The busted jumper is scary, but Fox is a blisteringly fast transition pusher who has legitimate point guard instincts.
3. Josh Jackson, F, Kansas — A 6'8" athletic stud with the physical tools to change the game on both ends, Jackson does everything well but score efficiently. He can be a playmaker from the wing and defend several positions, but if he doesn't improve a mechanically iffy shot and finish non-dunks around the rim better, he might be more of a role player than a star. The upside is immense, though.
4. Jayson Tatum, F, Duke — The scary comps for Tatum include Rudy Gay and Danny Granger—two scoring forwards whose shot creation made them more about volume than efficiency. And the Kings saw Gay perform up close for a couple of years, so they know what they might be getting into. But Tatum is a fluid initiator of his own offense, and there's a good chance he can develop other areas of his game to contribute in several ways.
5. Dennis Smith, G, North Carolina State — We already hit the athleticism and energy tradeoff, so maybe the stats should take on the focus now. ESPN.com's Kevin Pelton has Smith as the No. 4 overall prospect, based largely on a wins-above-replacement figure that tops Fultz's rookie-season projections. If Joerger lights a fire under him, Smith's first pro season could feature numbers as good as the 18.1 points, 4.6 rebounds and 6.2 assists he produced as a freshman.

If anyone from the No. 5 section is available at 10, the Kings should take him. Pretty simple.
Otherwise, here's how they ought to order their options for their other lottery pick.
1. Lauri Markkanen, F, Arizona — Essentially a 7-foot guard, Markannen doesn't defend or rebound well, but he'd be a devastating offensive weapon on a Kings team that needs one. The Arizona product is a lights-out shooter from deep (42.3 percent as a freshman) who can spot up, attack closeouts with a surprising off-the-dribble game and even come off screens. If the Kings nab a ball-handler at No. 5, he and Markkanen could form an offense-defining pick-and-pop duo. He might even be worth a look with Sacramento's fifth pick.
2. Malik Monk, G, Kentucky — Scoring matters, right? The Kings could add the 6'3" Monk to a backcourt that already includes Buddy Hield and then just hope one of them develops facilitating instincts. Monk shot 39.7 percent from deep in college and has combo-guard potential—complete with serious athleticism and deep range. Even if the Kings take a point guard at No. 5, Monk's upside makes him worthy here.
3. Frank Ntilikina, G, France — Ntilikina will almost certainly be gone here, as the New York Knicks and Dallas Mavericks both have eyes for the raw 18-year-old point guard. But if he's available somehow, the Kings could do worse than committing to his cranked-up defensive motor and super high ceiling.
4. Donovan Mitchell, G, Louisville — Nearly 21, it'd be nice if Mitchell were more fully formed. But the athleticism and defensive chops are locked in, which means the point guard skills and shooting stroke can take their time developing. Avery Bradley feels like a good comp here, and more offensive diversity could make Mitchell an even better player than the Boston Celtics guard. Plus, Sacramento needs someone who'll get after it on D.
5. Zach Collins, C, Gonzaga — OG Anunoby and Luke Kennard are options here, but Collins could be a true anchor on both ends. Though there's less call for a post-up scorer than ever these days, Collins showed low-volume flashes of a perimeter game (47.6 percent from long range on 21 attempts) and can score facing up. On D, he moves well and may be able to handle quicker forwards, but he must get stronger. He and Labissiere would give the Kings a couple of exciting frontcourt weapons.
Follow Grant on Twitter and Facebook.

Trading the No. 1 pick in the NBA draft is never an easy decision, yet that's exactly what the Boston Celtics have officially elected to do. Shipping off the selection that will likely be used on Markelle Fultz to the Philadelphia 76ers for the No. 3 pick and a future first-rounder with a unique set of protections, the C's are continuing to load up on assets. 
It's a move you don't see every year, but it isn't entirely without precedent. 
Dating back to the 1950s, the No. 1 pick has changed hands after the draft order was set six different times—most recently when the Cleveland Cavaliers sent a package centered around Andrew Wiggins to the Minnesota Timberwolves for Kevin Love.
How frequently have those decisions worked out? 
To answer that question, we're diving deep into the results of each swap. Win shares will be used for players from the distant past, while NBA Math's total points added (TPA) metric takes over for any deals after 1973, when the stat can first be calculated. In either situation, only the numbers recorded for the team on the receiving end matter. 
Context is also important. Stats alone can't tell the full stories here, even if they help paint an initial picture.

Boston Celtics Receive: Bill Sharman (9.3 win shares for Boston)
Fort Wayne Pistons: Chuck Share (5.4 win shares)
"We need a big man. Little men are a dime a dozen. I'm supposed to win, not go after local yokels," legendary Boston Celtics head coach Red Auerbach said about drafting Chuck Share over Bob Cousy in 1950, per Joe Belock of the New York Daily News. 
Fortunately for the C's, the ridiculousness of that move still managed to work out. 
Cousy refused to report to the Tri-Cities Blackhawks, was traded to the Chicago Stags and wound up in Boston after the Stags folded and he was the third pick (drawn from a hat) in the subsequent dispersal draft. From there, he'd become one of the greatest point guards in NBA history, leading the Celtics to six titles and eventually watching as his jersey was hung from the rafters of the Boston Garden.
Share simultaneously had issues of his own while finding a permanent landing spot. He refused to join the Celtics and instead played outside the NBA until the organization decided to trade him.
Meanwhile, the Fort Wayne Pistons had a disgruntled player of their own. Bill Sharman had joined the squad after the Washington Capitols folded midway through the 1950-51 campaign, but he chose to play baseball with the Brooklyn Dodgers until the Pistons sent him to a new franchise. Exchanging the two seemed like the perfect swap, especially since Share hadn't yet played an NBA game and was still brimming over with potential. 
But the deal wasn't exactly even. 
Share played slightly more than two seasons in Fort Wayne and averaged just 4.2 points before he was dealt to the Milwaukee Hawks for a 28-year-old Max Zaslofsky. It was only there that he'd experience a mini-breakout into a double-double threat, eventually earning captaincy on the title-winning '58 squad after the franchise moved to St. Louis. 
Sharman's story went a bit differently. One of the deadliest free-throw shooters in NBA history, he grew into an eight-time All-Star, seven-time All-NBA guard and four-time champion. Not only does he boast a plaque in Springfield, but his No. 21 uniform still looks down over Boston's parquet floor. 
Verdict: Boston has zero regrets.

Rochester Royals Receive: Clyde Lovellette (10.1 win shares), Jim Paxson (2.8 win shares)
Minneapolis Lakers Receive: Bob Burrow (minus-0.4 win shares), Ed Fleming (3.9 win shares), Hot Rod Hundley (4.3 win shares), Monk Meineke (0.0 win shares), Art Spoelstra (1.4 win shares)
At the time of this trade, Clyde Lovellette was an established star for the Minneapolis Lakers. He was coming off back-to-back All-Star appearances and had already earned a ring as a role player during his rookie campaign. 
So when the Rochester Royals made what amounted to a Godfather offer—the No. 1 pick of the 1957 NBA draft (who was coming off two consecutive All-American seasons at West Virginia) and a handful of talented players in their early 20s—they were surely expecting continued excellence that would help end their two-year playoff drought. 
Instead, Lovellette dominated for just one season.
He averaged 23.4 points, 12.1 rebounds and 1.9 assists while shooting 44.1 percent from the field during the 1957-58 campaign, and he carried the newly relocated Cincinnati Royals back into the postseason. But he, Jack Twyman and Maurice Stokes were quickly swept by the Detroit Pistons, and the Royals soon traded him to the St. Louis Hawks for a package centered around Wayne Embry (then a third-round pick who would go on to make five All-Star squads and earn Hall of Fame recognition) and Jim Palmer (a second-round selection who would put together a nondescript career). 
Meanwhile, Hot Rod Hundley parlayed his fantastic name and well-rounded game into a pair of All-Star berths. He was never a true superstar, but his flashy handles still made him a popular figure in both Minneapolis and—after the franchise moved—Los Angeles before he retired at 28 with bad knees. He didn't lead the Lakers to any titles, but he still provided more production than what the Royals got from their prized acquisition. 
Verdict: The Royals might want this one back, even if they got more win shares out of the deal. But the return for the subsequent Lovellette trade mitigated any feelings of disappointment.

Boston Celtics Receive: Kevin McHale (1554.53 TPA for Boston), Robert Parish (1612.38 TPA)
Golden State Warriors Receive: Rickey Brown (minus-158.83 TPA), Joe Barry Carroll (minus-17.54 TPA)
Right off the bat, that looks massively unfair. 
Rickey Brown's name doesn't resonate with the modern-day crowd—nor should it, since he played only five seasons and never averaged more than 5.7 points or 4.4 rebounds—and Joe Barry Carroll's uninspiring moniker (Joe Barely Cares) may be as well-known as the resume that includes an All-Star appearance and four seasons averaging at least 20 points. Kevin McHale and Robert Parish, on the other hand, are Hall of Famers who both played integral parts in the Boston Celtics dynasty that nearly spanned a decade.
But let's rewind to 1980 and look at where each of the four relevant players were at the time: 
It's important to remember that Parish was the only man with NBA experience at the time of this deal, which was really him and the No. 3 pick for Nos. 1 and 13. But we're intentionally looking at these moves retroactively, giving us the luxury of taking full professional careers into account. 
This was by no means a rip-off at the time. Giving up the first overall selection and another pick only a dozen slots later wasn't a steep price to pay for an up-and-coming big and another top-three pick, especially in a year where three prospects seemed to rise above the rest. 
But now? Little did the Warriors know then, but they'd end up on the wrong end of one of the most lopsided deals in league history. 
  
Verdict: Boston would do this 11 times out of 10. 

Philadelphia 76ers Receive: Roy Hinson (minus-105.95 TPA)
Cleveland Cavaliers Receive: Brad Daugherty (1025.31 TPA)
Whoops! 
Brad Daugherty became one of the best players in Cleveland Cavaliers history after this trade. He spent his entire career—sadly, shortened by back problems—with the organization and thrived as a skilled center. Not only did he average 19.0 points and 9.5 rebounds during a career that included five All-Star appearances and an All-NBA selection, but he also thrived as a non-traditional distributor and floor-spacer long before such versatility was coveted at the position. 
But at least the Philadelphia 76ers got a comparable stud in return when they traded the North Carolina standout one day before the 1986 NBA draft. Right? 
Well, not exactly. 
Hinson appeared to be the next big thing in the NBA. He was coming off his third professional season, during which he averaged 19.6 points, 7.8 rebounds, 1.4 blocks, 1.2 assists and 0.8 steals while shooting 53.2 percent from the field. Pair that with impressive defensive chops, and the 24-year-old with a 6'9" frame seemed like he was trending toward stardom and elite status among the league's many talented small forwards. 
That, coupled with the Sixers' thoughts about the status of the draft, pushed them to make the deal. 
"It was a very confusing draft," former general manager Pat Williams told Fox Sports. "It will go down in history as the drug draft, unfortunately, and every player seemingly was surrounded by issues or rumors. And as it turned out, the rumors all proved to be true, from Len Bias to Roy Tarpley to Chris Washburn to William Bedford—and I know I've missed a few. So we struggled with what to do."
At the time, trading for a more established commodity made sense. However, the move backfired not just because Daugherty worked out for Cleveland, but because Hinson's scoring, rebounding and efficiency numbers declined substantially during his first go-round in Philadelphia.
Less than two years after the initial move, the 76ers decided to ship him off to the New Jersey Nets, and the rest is history. 
Verdict: Are take-backs allowed? 

Orlando Magic Receive: Anfernee Hardaway (1160.3 TPA), 1996 first-round pick, 1998 first-round pick, 2000 first-round pick
Golden State Warriors Receive: Chris Webber (257.69 TPA)
Look past Chris Webber playing only a single season for the Golden State Warriors after he was dealt there on the night of the 1993 NBA draft. He still became a bona fide superstar for the Washington Bullets and Sacramento Kings, earning five All-Star and All-NBA selections while paving the way for the do-everything forwards running rampant in today's game. 
The Orlando Magic probably don't regret anything, though. 
Perhaps a Shaquille O'Neal-Webber tandem would've torched the NBA throughout the 1990s. It would've been a tremendously skilled duo capable of giving Hakeem Olajuwon and the rest of the decade's best bigs constant headaches. 
But that's still a hypothetical. And in reality, the Magic acquired Penny Hardaway, who formed a fearsome pairing with O'Neal while racking up All-Star berths and helping carry the Magic to the 1995 NBA Finals. They'd lose to Olajuwon's Houston Rockets in a sweep, but it remains impressive that such young talents could advance through a high-powered Eastern Conference just to reach that stage. 
Plus, they also picked up three more first-round picks: 
Even if nothing else had been involved, a Webber-for-Hardaway swap would've been perfectly fair. But getting Miller and using the other two draft picks to facilitate further trades pushes this over the top for Orlando. 
Verdict: Webber might have been nice alongside O'Neal, but there's no reason to have second thoughts here. 

Cleveland Cavaliers Receive: Kevin Love (241.46 TPA)
Minnesota Timberwolves Receive: Andrew Wiggins (minus-415.01 TPA), Anthony Bennett (minus-84.39 TPA), Thaddeus Young (minus-12.63 TPA), trade exception
Philadelphia 76ers Receive: Luc Mbah a Moute (minus-118.42 TPA), Alexey Shved (0.0 TPA), 2016 first-round pick (from Cleveland)
Don't overthink this. 
Even though Kevin Love hasn't posted the same individual numbers he maintained while with the Minnesota Timberwolves, he's been plenty valuable to the Cleveland Cavaliers. His knack for spacing the floor, improving defense and persistent rebounding chops have allowed his superstar teammates to thrive. That helped facilitate three consecutive trips to the NBA Finals—one of which resulted in the championship that ended Northeast Ohio's title drought. 
Sure, the Cavs had to give up quite a bit of talent to acquire him. But Andrew Wiggins, Anthony Bennett and the 2016 first-round pick that turned into Timothe Luwawu-Cabarrot (No. 24) was an easy price to pay for a player of Love's caliber, especially with Cleveland knocking on the door of a title after bringing LeBron James back from the Miami Heat. 
Wiggins could eventually help balance the scales.
He's already a dangerous scoring threat for the 'Wolves, capable of throwing up more than 30 points on any given night. But until he becomes a more efficient scorer, contributes in other areas and stops playing some of the league's worst defense, advanced metrics won't love what he's doing. Just take a gander at his year-by-year breakdown in NBA Math's TPA metric: 
Even if you think that's selling him short—and it may be, since context shows how much Minnesota has relied upon his scoring chops—he hasn't come close to matching Love's production. And he likely won't for a while longer, helping this trade swing further in Cleveland's direction as it continues to rack up victories and assert supremacy over the Eastern Conference. 
Verdict: Cleveland would make this trade again in a heartbeat. 
Adam Fromal covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @fromal09.
Unless otherwise indicated, all stats from Basketball Reference, NBA.com or ESPN.com. TPA scores for specific teams provided by NBA Math.

NBA draft prospect Lauri Markkanen joins Bleacher Report's Howard Beck and Jordan Brenner to discuss what it's like going through the predraft process—including meeting New York Knicks president Phil Jackson, answering weird interview questions and proving he's not a cliche European Dirk Nowitzki clone.
Afterward, B/R's Jonathan Wasserman joins the show to discuss Markkanen's draft status, as well as how much we should believe the big man's claim that he's tougher than most analysts believe. Wasserman also discusses the best fits for Markkanen and what Boston's next move is after trading away the No. 1 pick.
Subscribe to The Full 48 on iTunes here.
Highlights
On the coolest guy Markkanen met during the draft process?
At the draft lottery I met Alonzo Mourning, so that was definitely one. It was more of an introduction ... we talked about growth of basketball back home.
    
On predraft stress-inducers
There's nothing to stress about. Like I said: It doesn't really matter where I land. So it's just enjoying the process and do what I can and you really can't control that, where you're going.
   
On weirdest question he's heard during the interview process?
... You order fries in the restaurant and waiter comes up with chips, what are you gonna do?
     
On Meeting Phil Jackson
It's a great honor to meet him. ... We didn't talk about basketball that much. It was more of a—who I am.
    
On his game
I think everyone knows I can shoot the ball. ... I can rebound the ball; I bring a lot of energy to the team. ... I'm definitely not that weak, as people think.
    
On why people assume he's not strong
I don't know. Probably part of it is just that I'm a European player, probably.
I think it's gone away slowly, but it needs more than a couple players to do that.
   
On Dirk comparisons
It's a great honor to me. ... He's one of the greatest to do it, so, of course, there's gonna be comparisons.
The 2017 #GlobiesDraft is complete!
🏀Rodney Pryor
🏀Aaron Judge
🏀Naz Mitrou-Long
🏀Gal Gadot
🏀A.J. Merriweather
🏀Tim Tebow s://t.co/qRxtMiKUBZ
On Tuesday, the Harlem Globetrotters held their 11th annual draft. While some of the names are unrealistic, five current members of the squad joined after getting picked in previous years.
Here's who the Globetrotters took:
Not to be outdone—though they usually are—the Washington Generals held their own draft. Theirs was a bit more wild.
Here's hoping none of the draftees turn down the invite. The world needs LaVar and McGregor on the same floor.

RIP Kawhi Leonard braids 1991-2017 s://t.co/VQ1jrWOAuQ
First, LeBron James shaved his head. Now, Kawhi Leonard's signature braids are gone.
This summer is weird.
On Tuesday, Comedy Central's Legends tweeted out a photo of the San Antonio Spurs superstar without his trademark hairstyle. It's unclear when the Claw donned the new 'do.

Perhaps it's an offseason look.
Leonard is basically a ghost on social media—he has four, count 'em, four tweets to his name—so he could've been doing this every summer all along.
Update: Wednesday, June 21 at 1 p.m. ET
According to the San Antonio Express-News' Jabari Young, the photo is fake.
"Just received a call from people close to Kawhi," Young tweeted. "Told me this photo is fake. So there's that."
Long live the braids.
---End of update---


Jimmy Butler left his early June sit-down with Chicago Bulls brass under the impression he would not be placed on the trade block, according to Joe Cowley of the Chicago Sun-Times.
So much for that.
Multiple sources told CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill the Bulls are "shopping Butler to many teams." Not gauging his value. Not answering phone calls. Not listening to unsolicited offers. 
Shopping.
Plenty of squads have since been linked to the All-Star wing, but only a handful have the juice to broker a deal. Remember: Butler isn't Paul George. He cannot explore free agency for another two seasons. And the Bulls are not the Indiana Pacers. They actually have leverage in negotiations.
Two years is nothing in NBA time, so Butler's free agency will come into play at the bargaining table. But the Bulls are still in position to extract a collection of first-round goodies, intriguing prospects and team-friendly contracts from any blockbuster.
Butler's most serious admirers must be prepared to meet their demands.

Chicago Bulls Recieve: PG Kris Dunn, PF/C Jordan Hill, SG Zach LaVine, No. 7 pick
Minnesota Timberwolves Receive: SG/SF Jimmy Butler, PG Cameron Payne
Jimmy Butler and Tom Thibodeau, Take 2. Or is it Take 3?
The Timberwolves showed interest in dealing for Butler ahead of last year's draft when they owned the No. 5 pick and Thibs wasn't yet two months into his coach-president title, per ESPN.com's Marc Stein and Chad Ford. Another year of separation has not quelled curiosity. Minnesota is revisiting the bargaining table despite Chicago's "elevated" asking price, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski.
Any deal this time around will look a lot like last season's framework—starting with one of Zach LaVine or Andrew Wiggins in addition to Kris Dunn (ergo, a top-five pick). But where routine filler might've pushed that trade through the first time around, it's not enough now.
Both LaVine and Wiggins are extension-eligible, and it's hard for the Bulls to view either of them as viable rebuilding pieces when they're one year out from commanding max or near-max money. The No. 7 pick is a necessary inclusion, especially with Lavine working his way back from a torn ACL. 
Accepting this package allows the Bulls to induce reset, even with Dwyane Wade informing them he'll pick up his $23.8 million option for 2017-18, per Goodwill. Only $3 million of Rajon Rondo's contract is guaranteed, so they can pay him to go away and immediately slide Dunn into the starting point guard spot alongside a healthy LaVine and whomever they draft at No. 7. Jonathan Isaac or Jayson Tatum are the preferable fits if one of them falls that far.
Butler turns the Timberwolves into an instant postseason contender—for real this time. He'll lead fast breaks, stroke threes off passes from Wiggins, Ricky Rubio and Karl-Anthony Towns and bring All-Defense credentials to a roster that desperately needs it. 
Adding Butler to the books does eat into the Timberwolves' cap space, but they'll have enough left over to sign another impact free agent. They just waived Nikola Pekovic, and his $11.6 million salary for 2017-18 is expected to be wiped from their ledger. Parlay that cap space into a second established contributor, and the Timberwolves' rebuild gets kicked into hyperdrive.

Chicago Bulls Receive: PF/C Dragan Bender, PG/SG Brandon Knight, No. 4 pick, 2018 top-seven protected pick (via Miami Heat)
Phoenix Suns Receive: SG/SF Jimmy Butler, PF Bobby Portis, No. 38 pick
In the non-surprise of the century, K.C. Johnson of the Chicago Tribune identified the Suns as one of the many teams lusting after Butler. They need a high-end three-and-D prospect to offset Devin Booker's defensive rawness, and this regime has been hunting for a star since before it signed Tyson Chandler as LaMarcus Aldridge bait in 2015.
Giving up Dragan Bender, last season's fourth overall pick, is a tough blow. Ankle surgery limited him to just 43 appearances as a rookie, and at 7'1" with three-point range and quick feet, he's billed as a half-unicorn prospect—not quite Towns or Kristaps Porzingis, but close to it.
Still, the Suns have Chandler and Marquese Chriss on the roster. At least one of Alex Len and Alan Williams, both restricted free agents, should be back in the fold as well. There's enough personnel up front to overlook Bender's departure, particularly with Bobby Portis inbound.
Shedding the final three years of Brandon Knight's deal is big as well. The Suns get to stay flexible at a time when they'll never be more appealing to free agents. And while forfeiting the No. 4 pick hurts, their ideal choice is a high-ceiling wing. Butler is what they would hope that player becomes.
There isn't anything for the Bulls to think about here. If they're serious about moving Butler, they're consigning themselves to a rebuild. What better way to start that transition with two top-four prospects and another first-rounder coming down the pipeline?
Paying the $43.9 million left on Knight's pact isn't that bad under the circumstances. He's only 25, the Bulls don't have an ironclad point guard of the future, and it's worth getting a hold on the Miami Heat pick. 

Chicago Bulls Receive: PF/C Dragan Bender, SG/SF Iman Shumpert, No. 4 pick (via Phoenix) 
Cleveland Cavaliers Receive: SG/SF Jimmy Butler, PG/SG Brandon Knight
Phoenix Suns Receive: PG Jerian Grant, PF Kevin Love, 2021 top-10 protected first-round pick (via Cleveland) 
No front office stability? No problem. Butler reportedly wants to play for the Cavaliers anyway, according to the Chicago Sun-Times' Joe Cowley:
"One of the sources indicated that Butler would even push his front office to get the deal done, which is a huge change of direction for Butler, who has told both general manager Gar Forman and vice president of basketball operations John Paxson numerous times over the last year that he didn't want to be traded. But that was before the Eastern Conference powerhouse Cavaliers became a possible destination."
With at least two years separating him from free agency (player option), Butler only has so much leverage. He cannot coerce the Bulls into accepting Kevin Love as the primary return for his services. He'll need a third team to make his apparent wish come true.
And that's if this is even his wish. Sources told ESPN.com's Marc Stein Cleveland has been informed Butler wants to stay in Chicago. But these rumors aren't going away, so the Cavaliers aren't, either.
If the Suns get word that Butler doesn't plan on sticking around with them beyond 2018-19, they're the perfect third-party facilitators. They've already balked at a deal for Love that sends the No. 4 pick to Chicago, according to ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin and Brian Windhorst, but the party changes if Cleveland includes that 2021 choice.
Rumors surrounding LeBron James' future with the Cavaliers began swirling before the end of the 2017 NBA Finals. People around the league, both inside and outside Cleveland, believe he'll leave in 2018, according to Wojnarowski (via NBC Sports). And even if he stays, there's no guarantee the Cavaliers are world-beaters into 2020-21, increasing the value of that 2021 pick.
The Bulls get a similar return to what they'd receive in a direct agreement with Phoenix. They don't snag that Heat selection, but the burden of Knight's contract no longer falls on them. The Suns get a star who can't leave until 2019 at the earliest (player option), while the Cavaliers net a player capable of almost leveling the playing field against the Golden State Warriors. 

Chicago Bulls Receive: SG/SF Will Barton, PF Kenneth Faried, PG/SG Jamal Murray, No. 13 pick
Denver Nuggets Receive: SG/SF Jimmy Butler, PG Cameron Payne
It's deja vu for the Denver Nuggets. They were on the "periphery" of the Butler chase at February's trade deadline, according to CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill. It's only fair they rejoin the fray now.
Jamal Murray's exit is the hardest one for them to stomach, but his absence is manageable. Gary Harris, Nikola Jokic, Emmanuel Mudiay and Jameer Nelson can handle the playmaking in totality, and Butler gives them another ball-handler to orchestrate sets. 
Plus, this trade doesn't remove the Nuggets from free-agency contention. It saves them $3.4 million when factoring in the $2.2 million salary of the No. 13 pick. Renouncing the rights to Danilo Gallinari opens up more than $37 million in room—money that'll pique superstars' attention when coming from a team with Butler and Jokic in the fold.
Grabbing Murray and the No. 13 pick is a win for the Bulls. They finally secure a lead guard worth building around, and that late-lottery selection can be used on a stretchy big (Zach Collins, Lauri Markkanen) or a wing who slips down the board (Luke Kennard, Donovan Mitchell).
Kenneth Faried is an understated fit. He has two years left on a cap-friendly contract and has shown he'll back up players younger than himself.
Will Barton could wind up being a rental with free agency on the horizon, but he's paired his top-shelf explosion with flashes of shooting, playmaking savvy and, less frequently, defensive aggression. The Bulls may determine he's yet another keeper. 

Chicago Bulls Receive: SF/PF Luol Deng, PF Julius Randle, No. 2 pick
Los Angeles Lakers Receive: SG/SF Jimmy Butler, PG Cameron Payne
This trade has three layers to it. 
First, there's the Los Angeles Lakers' most recent trade. As Wojnarowski first reported Tuesday, they flipped D'Angelo Russell and the final three years of Timofey Mozgov's contract to the Brooklyn Nets for Brook Lopez's expiring deal and the No. 27 pick. 
Ditching Mozgov's $16 million cap hit in 2018-19 will prove instrumental in Los Angeles' pursuit of George next summer—if team president Magic Johnson waits that long. That brings us to the second layer.
The Lakers are trying to acquire George from the Pacers for a package built around the 27th and 28th selections, along with one of Jordan Clarkson and Julius Randle, according to Stein. It's a lowball offer, but Indiana may not get anything better with George entering free agency next summer and reportedly hell-bent on relocating to Hollywood.
Now for the third layer.
Knowing all of this, the Lakers could theoretically strike a trade for both George and Butler. They must wait for both the 27th and 28th picks to turn into cap hits or send Corey Brewer to Indiana to make the money work, but if their barebones framework for George pans out, it's a possibility.
Flipping the No. 2 selection is a calculated gamble when Russell is out of town. But the Lakers get to evaluate Cameron Payne, and Brandon Ingram deserves some run at point forward. Butler can also direct some half-court sets.
Equally important: The Lakers get rid of Deng's deal. That lets them take on Butler and George while still setting them up to have max cap space in 2018 if they renounce Lopez and offload another small contract. (Sup, LeBron?)
Can there really be a world in which the Lakers turn Brewer, Clarkson, Deng, Mozgov, Randle, Russell, No. 2, No. 27 and No. 28 into Butler, George and Lopez? If there can be, the Bulls should't be the ones to ruin it. They're landing a top-two pick and have a year to figure out whether Randle is part of the big picture. That justifies absorbing the final three years of Deng's pact.

Chicago Bulls Receive: SG Malachi Richardson, SG/SF Garrett Temple, C Tyler Zeller (non-guaranteed), No. 5 pick (via Sacramento), 2019 lottery-protected first-round pick (from Boston, via Los Angeles Clippers)
Boston Celtics Receive: SG/SF Jimmy Butler
Sacramento Kings Receive: PG Demetrius Jackson (non-guaranteed), PF Jordan Mickey (non-guaranteed), PG Cameron Payne, No. 3 pick (via Boston)
As one league executive texted to Goodwill about Butler: "It's either Boston or Cleveland, but he's going."
By this logic, the Celtics are heavy favorites to complete the blockbuster. Some of their half-baked offers are better than the Cavaliers' best proposals. But Goodwill heard they "rebuffed" the Bulls' pitch to flip Butler for the No. 3 pick "straight-up"—a puzzling development to say the least.
"If it's true that Boston said no for this offer, then they're either in love with their draft pick choice or there's some information missing here," CBS Sports' Chris Barnewell wrote. "It's insane that Chicago's value of Butler is so low they would only take a single draft pick in this year's draft for him, but it's even crazier the Celtics would say no to that."
Boston isn't escaping Butler negotiations without coughing up this year's draft pick. End of story. But it's possible team president Danny Ainge recoiled at the inclusion of Avery Bradley or Jae Crowder, as he reportedly did leading into the February trade deadline, per Turner Sports' David Aldridge.
Tabbing Sacramento for third-team duty could help Boston keep both. The Kings are "starved" for Josh Jackson, according The Vertical's Chris Mannix. Forking over Malachi Richardson and Garrett Temple is a reasonable price to pay if it effectively assures Jackson will be available when you're on the clock. At the very least, using Richardson and Temple to move up is better than relinquishing the No. 10 pick.
The Bulls don't get a top-three selection for their troubles, but they do get two extra first-round goodies in Richardson and that Clippers selection. Temple will also be cheaper to keep than Bradley when he reaches free agency in 2018 (player option).
In many ways, the Celtics only prolong the inevitable by retaining Bradley. They'll need to dump him, among others, if chasing Gordon Hayward is in the cards. If not, there's still no way Marcus Smart, Isaiah Thomas and him are all on the roster in 2018-19. 
Going this route, though, allows for untapped flexibility. The Celtics can extract additional assets out of a Bradley salary dump, dangle him in a separate Paul George trade or keep him long term. Either way, they get Butler without closing other doors. And that's a big deal.
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Salary information via Basketball Insiders and RealGM.

LOS ANGELES — What the bold new Los Angeles Lakers era of team president Magic Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka boils down to is this: They believe they can deliver new superstars that others before them could not.
It's now up to Johnson and Pelinka to lock in Paul George and have a superstar friend to put alongside him a year from now in free agency, ideally LeBron James or Russell Westbrook.
By trading D'Angelo Russell's potential and Timofey Mozgov's dreadful contract to the Brooklyn Nets for the No. 27 pick in the draft and Brook Lopez's expiring contract, as The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported Tuesday, Johnson and Pelinka bet on their ability to turn cap space into championship talent. Former executive vice president of basketball operations Jim Buss and former general manager Mitch Kupchak assumed they could as well.
This is the new (but old) Plan A.
However, George's reported desire to end up in L.A. gives the Lakers a sure thing that Buss and Kupchak never had. George's proclamation to the Pacers front office, which ensured the Lakers won't be forced to trade much to get him, was one domino. Giving up on Russell just to unload Mozgov is another, as the Lakers can now fairly easily clear enough cap space to sign both George and another max player next summer.
While Johnson sets the ultimate course, Pelinka will detail Plans B, C, D, all the way to Z. Maybe the Lakers trade for George. Maybe the Nos. 27 and 28 overall picks they hold Thursday don't get moved and must turn into cheap long-term labor next to superstars. Maybe they sign DeMarcus Cousins.
There are tons of maybes, but there must be in rebuilds that always take luck, too.

A core problem sabotaging the previous regime—perhaps the biggest structural flaw—was that Buss and Kupchak were never cut out to be builders. They were used to Lakers glory unfolding consistently and easily. Neither had the magnetism or verve to hustle and make something out of nothing.
Jerry Buss knew their limitations, but he hoped his son and longtime soldier Kupchak would avoid a rebuild with the addition of Dwight Howard for Kobe Bryant's final stretch. The plan was to set Jim up for an easy few years of glory and an early retirement.
With Howard now a bitter memory and Jim dismissed (along with Kupchak) by his sister Jeanie, the Lakers are back to where they were before in a sense: believing stars will flock to the bright lights of Tinseltown. 
This time, however, the team hopes to tap into the strengths of its new front office to deliver those stars.
For one, Pelinka knows agents. Don’t fail to notice the collateral result of this setting Russell up for a grand opportunity on another big stage to make his name with the Nets; Russell’s agent is Aaron Mintz, who also represents George. Russell is now Brooklyn’s one and only marquee young player—and gets a fresh start away from Nick Young’s ex-fiancee and Bryant’s shadow.
If the Lakers have to give up more of their young core to trade for George rather than signing him outright in 2018, he'll be eligible to get much more money in the long term, as L.A. would acquire his Bird rights. That's something no superstar would ignore, and it's exactly the rabbit-out-of-the-hat way Pelinka made his mark on the league as an agent before switching sides earlier this year.

Backroom dealings with agents weren't a strong suit of Kupchak, who adhered tightly to following rules and norms. That said, it's still incumbent on Pelinka to prove his various plans lead to a real-world, star-powered destination.
In the meantime, Johnson's belief in the next rookie point guard runs deep, which is why he told Lonzo Ball in their predraft meeting that he envisions him coming in to be a leader. Having that space to lead would have been nearly impossible had Lakers head coach Luke Walton not concluded that Russell wasn't going to develop into what the Lakers wanted, essentially making him a tradable asset.
Russell did improve with the faith Walton tried to put in him from the beginning of last season, but his personality is not one that wins people over. Bottom line.
When you are as aloof as Russell is and are trying to sell experienced leaders such as Johnson and Walton on your leadership ability, that's a dead end, no matter how good your pick-and-roll passing or shooting stroke might become.
True, this was definitely selling low on Russell, the 2015 No. 2 overall pick, as suggested earlier this week. Yet there was also a risk of Russell's value dropping even further after a year of Ball upstaging him in the Lakers offense and him continuing to be a ghost in the Lakers defense.
Adding Lopez to the mix may also accomplish what Kupchak had hoped when he signed Mozgov. Lopez is a talented player and great locker room personality (think Pau Gasol) who will help the young Lakers win games in the coming season, much as Mozgov and Luol Deng were supposed to do last year.

After unveiling a three-point shot last season, Lopez is now uniquely suited for Walton's spread-floor system, while he also promises to protect the rim. (He made 134 threes in 2016-17; Russell, by comparison, hit 135). Lopez, 29, is from North Hollywood and is a Southern California kid just like Ball and George. Part of the vision of Johnson and Pelinka is to maximize that local angle, so perhaps Lopez winds up staying for less money or does well enough to give the Lakers another asset.
But Lopez's arrival isn't the point. Rather, Mozgov's departure is the key in this deal, as it opens up the financial space for when someone worthy of superstar money comes.
In that sense, the sad final years of Jim Buss and Kupchak—and Bryant—could serve a useful purpose in Lakers history.
No one wanted to take the torch and pressure from arguably the greatest Laker ever, Bryant. It's far more appealing to be a savior and revive this immensely popular NBA franchise from its darkest days.
That's why Johnson didn't think he needed Jerry West, who did want back in with the Lakers before settling for a role in the Clippers' front office.
Johnson and Pelinka believe they can do this, which is why they're not being shy about trying.
    
Kevin Ding is an NBA senior writer for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, @KevinDing.

The Los Angeles Clippers have reportedly reached out to multiple teams to gauge their interest in trading for All-Star center DeAndre Jordan.
Chris Haynes of ESPN.com reported Tuesday the talks have been "exploratory" to this point, and nothing is imminent. The Clippers did offer Jordan to the Phoenix Suns for Tyson Chandler and the No. 4 pick in Thursday's draft but were rebuffed.
Team officials told Brad Turner of the Los Angeles Times that the Clippers "are not actively looking to trade" Jordan.
The 28-year-old center averaged 12.7 points, 13.8 rebounds and 1.7 blocks last season. He earned his first All-Star selection and was named a third-team All-NBA selection for the second time.
The Clippers are heading into an uncertain offseason, with Blake Griffin, Chris Paul and JJ Redick all heading for free agency. Griffin and Jordan are known to have a close personal relationship, so the former's departure may increase the likeliness of the latter's. Paul and Redick are expected to explore free agency and could also sign elsewhere for better chances at a title.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
This all could leave Jordan as the last man in the lurch, ironic given he was nearly the first of Los Angeles' Big Three to bolt. The Clippers made a last-ditch desperation ploy to keep Jordan after he verbally agreed to sign with the Dallas Mavericks in 2015. Their last-second powwow worked, but Doc Rivers has been unable to surround his stars with enough talent to compete for a championship.
Should Paul or Griffin leave in free agency, trading Jordan would make sense. Rivers has ripped the asset cupboards barren during his tenure, leaving the Clips with no promising players on the rise or much in the way of draft picks.
The Clippers likely won't trade Jordan until they know what's going on with their free agents. Once the dust settles there, though, this could be something to monitor. 

LOS ANGELES — It didn't take long for the Los Angeles Lakers' new front office to implement significant changes to the team's roster.
According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, executives Earvin "Magic" Johnson and Rob Pelinka have agreed to deal the team's No. 2 pick from 2015, guard D'Angelo Russell, to the Brooklyn Nets for veteran Brook Lopez and the No. 27 pick in Thursday's NBA draft. The move will also shed the contract of Timofey Mozgov, who's owed $48 million over the next three seasons.
Mozgov's bloated contract, signed in July 2016, was a factor in the dismissal of executives Jim Buss and Mitch Kupchak. Lopez is heading into the final year of his contract and will be paid $22.6 million, giving the Lakers a starting center on a short-term deal.
Russell has shown tremendous flashes throughout his first two seasons but also struggled to find consistency. Both Johnson and coach Luke Walton publicly urged the 21-year-old guard to be more of a leader, but the team clearly didn't believe in Russell enough to wait for him to mature as a player.
The Lakers will presumably draft UCLA's Lonzo Ball to start at point guard next season, though the team has also looked closely at Kentucky's De'Aaron Fox.
The Lakers wanted to get rid of Mozgov's contract (and still want to lose Luol Deng's remaining $54 million over three seasons), but they had time on their side with the 2018 free-agent class the priority since players like Paul George and LeBron James are expected to be available.
Instead, they acted swiftly, with Russell the casualty.
Per ESPN's Marc Stein, the Lakers have reportedly talked with the Indiana Pacers about a trade for George.
League sources tell @RamonaShelburne and me: The Pacers and Lakers have engaged on Paul George trade talks in advance of Thursday's draft.
Through his agent Aaron Mintz, George had informed the Pacers, and other inquiring teams, that he intends to join the Lakers next summer but would prefer to be traded to Los Angeles before next season.
Why the Lakers? Perhaps it's the chance to return home to the Los Angeles metropolitan area (George is from Palmdale), play for Johnson and step into the star void created when Kobe Bryant retired.
All may be true, but there could also be a significant financial component to George's Lakers dream.
Los Angeles is armed with roughly $19.1 million in salary cap space this summer, and if it can swing a trade for George, it will be able to renegotiate his existing contract, which would push his salary to $30.3 million in 2017-18 (based on the NBA's estimate of a $101 million salary cap).
George would be eligible to extend his current deal for two more seasons for a total of $95.4 million (he'd be limited to five percent raises).
If he's patient, and the Lakers hold on to $12 million in cap space heading into the season, George could restructure his deal after a six-month waiting period to $175.7 million over five seasons (including 2017-18).

But Los Angeles will try to get Indiana to send it George via trade, perhaps for a package that is built around Julius Randle or Jordan Clarkson along with one or two of the Lakers' lower first-round picks (Nos. 27 and 28).
Los Angeles can also offer players like Brandon Ingram, Larry Nance Jr., Ivica Zubac and the No. 2 pick, but if the price is too high, it may choose to try to wait and obtain George in free agency next year—though he could choose another destination.
The Lakers will have significant spending power in July 2018.
Including a $12.4 million cap hold for Randle as a restricted free agent next summer, Los Angeles can reach roughly $36 million in cap space (with a $102 million cap projection). That's enough to sign George at $30.6 million per year.
Should the Lakers let Randle go or shed Clarkson's $12.5 million salary, they'd be at $48 million. That wouldn't be quite enough to land George and James, who has been linked to the Lakers in addition to PG-13 since the Finals came to its inevitable Golden State Warriors-dominated conclusion.
James can opt out of the last year of his deal with the Cleveland Cavaliers, whose future is in an interesting state, given the team just let go of general manager David Griffin.
The Lakers' path to pairing George with James would probably mean losing both Randle and Clarkson—though it would certainly help if the team could clear Deng's deal from the books as it did Mozgov's.

James will be eligible to earn $35.7 million in 2018-19, and Los Angeles would need $66.3 million to sign him and George. It can near that number while keeping Randle and Clarkson, provided it dumps Deng.
Should the Lakers trade for George—by sending Clarkson and the Nos. 27 and 28 picks to the Pacers—and restructure his contract for the full five years, they would not have enough cap space (about $17.7 million) to sign James without making another move.
That figure could increase to almost $36 million if Los Angeles found a way to divest of Deng; otherwise, it may need to both renounce the rights to Randle and stretch out the final two seasons of Deng's contract with a $7.4 million cap hit for each of five straight years.
It's too far off in the future to get hung up on the details. What is clear, however, is that the Lakers have a path to both George and James should the duo choose to team up in Los Angeles.
In the meantime, Johnson and Pelinka have shown they're willing to make significant changes to a squad that won just 26 games last season.
    
Email Eric Pincus at eric.pincus@gmail.com and follow him on Twitter @EricPincus.

The Los Angeles Lakers are turning over every stone in hopes of landing Paul George in a trade with the Indiana Pacers, and that includes discussing a possible swap of lottery picks with the Sacramento Kings.
Citing sources, NBA.com's David Aldridge reported Tuesday the Lakers talked to the Sacramento Kings about flipping the No. 2 overall pick in Thursday's draft in exchange for pick Nos. 5 and 10. The Lakers' goal was to snag both lottery picks in hopes of packaging one with the 27th and 28th selections to bolster their package for George.
However, the Kings rebuffed the Lakers' offer.
Earlier Tuesday, the Los Angeles Times' Brad Turner reported the Lakers engaged the Pacers about a deal that would send pick Nos. 27 and 28 along with either Jordan Clarkson or Julius Randle to Indiana in exchange for George.
That deal didn't sit well with the Pacers, as talks have reportedly reached a "standstill," according to the Los Angeles Daily News' Mark Medina.
Nonetheless, Medina was told George remains "highly likely" to get traded before the draft.
As things stand, ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported the Pacers are still angling for the Lakers' No. 2 overall pick with less than 48 hours remaining until Commissioner Adam Silver approaches the podium at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York.

Apparently Dwight Howard doesn't follow Adrian Wojnarowski on Twitter. 
Minutes after The Vertical editor dropped a #WojBomb about D12 getting dealt to the Charlotte Hornets, the 7-footer posted his thoughts on the rampant Paul George trade rumors:
He has so many great options, tough 2 Call s://t.co/fnC87lmFSS
Sources: Charlotte is sending Miles Plumlee, Marco Belenelli and 41st pick to Atlanta for Dwight Howard and 31st pick.
Several Twitter users notified Howard he was on the move:
@DwightHoward What r ur thoughts on the Dwight Howard trade?
@DwightHoward You just got traded, dude. Thoughts?
@DwightHoward YOU JUST BEEN TRATED TO THE HORNETS LOL
@DwightHoward please tell me they informed you. And you didn't just find out right now
@DwightHoward  s://t.co/NtdrLEPKJU
Could the big fella have been trolling (albeit in a peculiar way)? Sure. But it seems as though the 31-year-old was oblivious to the transaction.


The Charlotte Hornets have added a big piece to the lineup with the acquisition of Dwight Howard in a trade from the Atlanta Hawks, the Hornets announced on Tuesday.
The Undefeated's Marc J. Spears first reported the deal.
The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported the Hornets will send Miles Plumlee, Marco Belinelli and the 41st pick in Thursday's draft to the Hawks in exchange for Howard and pick No. 31.
Shortly before the news broke, Howard tweeted the following:
Ok Twitter Fans ,, give me your thoughts , trades or otherwise &amp; Remember 2B-Nice 🤗 s://t.co/Nl6lQFVvBN
Howard signed a three-year deal with the Hawks worth $70.5 million last summer, but he is already on his way out to play for his fifth team in the last seven seasons.
The 31-year-old averaged 13.5 points, 12.7 rebounds and 1.2 blocks per game on 63.3 percent shooting from the field during his lone season in Atlanta.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Even if he is no longer the dominant low-post scorer he once was, it's clear the big man still has plenty of value on the defensive end of the court.
The 2004 No. 1 overall pick spent his first eight seasons with the Orlando Magic, quickly becoming one of the best frontcourt players in the NBA while earning three Defensive Player of the Year awards. After an up-and-down year with the Los Angeles Lakers, he spent the next three seasons with the Houston Rockets.
In 13 seasons, he's been named an All-Star eight times and been selected first-team All-NBA five times. He has also led the league in rebounding five different times.
His continued success on the boards has become part of his team-first attitude.
"I'm just trying my best to get as many as I can for my teammates," Howard said in January, per KL Chouinard of NBA.com. "The more rebounds I get, the more opportunities we have to score. So I'm doing everything I can to help this team win."
The center will now bring down those rebounds for the Hornets, who have bolstered their platoon at center by bringing Howard into the fold without parting ways with key assets.
For now, Howard and Cody Zeller should comprise an imposing one-two punch at the 5 as the Hornets eye a return to the postseason.

The Cleveland Cavaliers are still "seriously interested" in trading for Jimmy Butler, but the Chicago Bulls swingman would reportedly prefer to stay in the Windy City with two guaranteed years left on his contract.
Citing sources, ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported Tuesday "the Cavaliers have been notified that Butler hopes to stay with the Bulls and would be reluctant to commit his long-term future to Cleveland."
CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill first reported Tuesday that Butler "has made it known he wants to stay in Chicago and doesn't want to be moved" even though the Bulls are actively shopping him in advance of Thursday's draft.
"It's either Boston or Cleveland but he's going," a league executive texted Goodwill.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Lauri Markkanen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Bulls Rookie
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Stein also reported the Cavaliers are still chasing Indiana Pacers small forward Paul George.
However, the Los Angeles Lakers appear to be leading the charge for George—who reportedly covets a union with the Purple and Gold, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski.
Stein and the Los Angeles Times' Brad Turner have reported the Lakers are pitching the Pacers on a potential deal that would send pick Nos. 27 and 28 along with either Jordan Clarkson or Julius Randle to Indiana in exchange for George.
The Cavaliers, meanwhile, reportedly need to rope in a third team to make a trade work since the Pacers are eyeing a high lottery pick Cleveland doesn't have access to.
News of Butler's desire to stay in Chicago comes the same day Dwyane Wade reportedly informed the Bulls he will pick up his $23.8 million player option for the 2017-18 season, per Goodwill.

With the Philadelphia 76ers trading for the No. 1 overall pick in Thursday's NBA draft and reportedly planning to take Washington's Markelle Fultz, the race is on to figure out who the rest of the teams in the top 10 might select.
The biggest name other than Fultz is obviously UCLA's Lonzo Ball, who is listed at -260 (bet $260 to win $100) to go to his hometown Los Angeles Lakers with the second overall pick in the draft.
However, bettors who think Ball might slip past the Lakers can get a nice payout of +200 (bet $100 to win $200) by wagering on the field at sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Ball and Fultz are widely viewed as the clear-cut top two choices on the board, and both guards look to be franchise players who can turn their teams around.
The Celtics acquired the No. 3 overall pick from the 76ers in their deal, setting themselves up well for the future. As far as this year goes, though, Boston could select another guard like Kentucky's De'Aaron Fox or Malik Monk, or the team could opt to go with a forward such as Duke's Jayson Tatum or Kansas' Josh Jackson.
What the Celtics ultimately decide to do with the third pick may cause a domino effect on the rest of the top 10 and could also involve another trade.
Fox (-140) and Tatum (-120) are each favored to be taken among the first four selections (under 4.5) on the NBA draft props board, with the Phoenix Suns virtually guaranteed to get a top player as well at No. 4 overall.
From there, other former college freshmen like Monk, Florida State's Jonathan Isaac and North Carolina State's Dennis Smith Jr. could be called in the top 10. Isaac is a solid -185 favorite to go under 6.5, while Monk is -125 chalk to be picked under eight. Smith is -130 to be taken over 8.5, with the under listed at +100.
The first international player selected is expected to be France's Frank Ntilikina. According to oddsmakers, he will go in the top 10 with under 9.5 favored at -125.

After the Los Angeles Lakers reportedly agreed to send 21-year-old point guard D'Angelo Russell to the Brooklyn Nets on Tuesday, per The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, Twitter hit Magic Johnson's Twitter archives.
The team president was once so high on D-Lo, he referred to him as a "future superstar":
Laker Nation: Congrats to Mitch Kupchak, Jim and Jeannie Buss on drafting, who I think is a future superstar in D'Angelo Russell!
Laker Nation: I'm looking forward to being a mentor to D'Angelo Russell on and off the court.
D'Angelo Russell and I had a good conversation before the @Lakers vs. Celtics game. I look forward to working with him! @Dloading
Times have changed.
Magic when he got hired: "I look forward to working with D'Angelo Russell!"

Magic now talking about Russell: s://t.co/Er5M3NIoET
Magic reportedly sent Russell, the No. 2 pick of 2015, to the Brooklyn Nets along with salary dump center Timofey Mozgov in exchange for Brook Lopez and the No. 27 pick in this Thursday's draft.


The Los Angeles Lakers already made one big trade Tuesday. Now they're trying to make it two.
ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported the Lakers are attempting to trade the Nos. 27 and 28 picks along with Julius Randle or Jordan Clarkson for Indiana Pacers star Paul George.
The Lakers acquired the No. 27 pick earlier Tuesday along with Brook Lopez by sending D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov to the Brooklyn Nets. Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical, who first reported the deal, noted the Lakers made the trade in the hopes of bringing in George and signing LeBron James next summer.
George's representation informed the Pacers over the weekend that he would be leaving the franchise in free agency next summer, per Wojnarowski. The California native is reportedly set on playing for the Lakers, who will have max cap space available in 2018 and represent something of a homecoming.
Indiana general manager Kevin Pritchard has kicked things into high gear in attempts to trade George, likely before Thursday's NBA draft. The Pacers would in all likelihood prefer a mix of draft picks and young players as they embark upon what's looking like a full-scale rebuild.
By ridding themselves of Mozgov's contract, the Lakers put themselves in a position to acquire George and still have max space available next summer. The Lakes have long dreamed of signing, but a ton of other potential co-stars will be available should their pursuit of the four-time MV{ fall short once again.
This move is still a risky jettisoning of young talent by team president Magic Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka, who appear determined to undo most of the work done by the previous regime. Russell was an enigmatic but promising guard, and Randle has been working out all offseason in what could be a big contract year.

The Brooklyn Nets and Los Angeles Lakers made a blockbuster trade Tuesday, causing a shift around the league before Thursday's draft.
According to Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical, the Nets will receive D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov in exchange for Brook Lopez and the No. 27 pick of the draft.  
Much of this move from the Lakers' perspective was to open things up for the future:
For the Lakers, this is longer-term play to clear space for Paul George and LeBron James pursuit. Lonzo Ball on way at No.2 s://t.co/KxfdEuAUO0
If LAL can find a home for Clarkson, not bring back Randle and stretch Deng, cap space in 18-19 would be $64m. Good enough for 2 max.
There are mixed opinions on whether this was a smart decision:
Great work by  the Lakers. They'd been looking for a way to move Russell, especially with a point guard likely on his way in w/ draft. s://t.co/M0YsPXYC6a
Thats a lot of chips to put in the "we trust Paul George will keep his word in a year" basket.
The dude the Lakers signed at like 12:05 on July 1 last year just cost the former No. 2 pick to dump
Lakers get off albatross Mozgov deal, clear PG runway for Lonzo Ball &amp; money for 2018 free agency. Nifty work by Magic &amp; Rob Pelinka.
Nice job by the Lakers to get off Mozgov deal. Magic's been excellent so far
They also added a center who averaged 20.6 points, 7.8 rebounds and 1.7 blocks per game behind 51.1 percent shooting from the field in 2015-16 and posted 20.5 points and 5.4 rebounds per game this season.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
On the other hand, the lack of interest in Russell was a bit of a surprise:
Lakers were surprised about lack of trade value for D'Angelo Russell. No takers in the lottery s://t.co/CLs9xSaNiw
D'Angelo Russell to the Nets must mean Pritchard told the Lakers that he doesn't want Russell, in any deal in exchange for Paul George.
The Lopez move doesn't come as much of a surprise from Brooklyn's perspective, considering trade rumors have circulated around the big man since the middle of the 2015-16 schedule. Frank Isola of the New York Daily News reported in February 2016 "several league executives claim that the club is willing to deal Brook Lopez."
Despite Lopez's clear talent, Brooklyn is far from contention at this point. Lopez is 29 years old and will likely be past his prime when the team is finally ready to compete for titles.
This deal allows the team to get younger and help rebuild:
Love this move for Brooklyn. Taking on a bad contract to get a good young player is their only avenue to improving right now.
Like this deal for Brooklyn. Been a rough go of it for Russell, for a variety of reasons, but he's a playmaker with elite court vision.
Russell will get every chance in Brooklyn to make plays and show he’s worthy of the second overall pick, with much less pressure on him.
Amazingly, this was all predicted by Bleacher Report's Game of Zones:
👀

#GameOfZones s://t.co/hHKWVPNvPy
Although the Nets still need significant help before they can contend, this is a good step toward improvement.

The Los Angeles Lakers tabbed D'Angelo Russell as a key piece of their rebuild when they selected him second overall in the 2015 NBA draft. Two years later, the 21-year-old point guard is already on the move. 
According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, the Lakers will ship Russell and Timofey Mozgov to the Brooklyn Nets in exchange for Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in Thursday's NBA draft. ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne confirmed the news. 
Shelburne noted the Lakers were likely incentivized to make the trade to get out from the final three years of Mozgov's four-year, $64 million contract, which he signed last summer: 
Lakers had called multiple teams in lottery about acquiring Russell this week. No takers. He becomes the guy who helps them get off Moz $
Lopez, meanwhile, will earn $22.6 million in the final year of his contract before he becomes an unrestricted free agent in 2018. 
With Lopez on an expiring deal and Russell out of the picture, Wojnarowski broke down the long-term ramifications of the move for the Lakers from personnel and financial perspectives: 
For the Lakers, this is longer-term play to clear space for Paul George and LeBron James pursuit. Lonzo Ball on way at No.2 s://t.co/KxfdEuAUO0
ESPN's Marc Stein reported the Lakers are now looking to trade the No. 27 and No. 28 picks in the 2017 NBA draft along with either Julius Randle or Jordan Clarkson in exchange for Indiana Pacers star forward Paul George. 
Russell's first NBA season was marred by a stint in former head coach Byron Scott's doghouse and a highly publicized off-court incident with Nick Young, but he came into his own as a sophomore after the Lakers replaced Scott with Luke Walton. 
Although knee and calf injuries limited Russell to only 63 appearances this past season, he appeared more confident as a playmaker and primary scorer. The Ohio State product averaged 15.6 points and 4.8 assists on 40.5 percent shooting from the field, including 35.2 percent shooting from three. 
The biggest revelation, though, was that Russell may actually be better suited to operate as a shooting guard rather than a conventional point guard since he's a capable spot-up shooter who can use the threat of an improving jumper to take defenders off the dribble. 
"I feel like when you're playing shooting guard, you've got to score the ball or make plays for your teammates," Russell said after he erupted for a career-high 40 points as the Lakers' starting 2 in a March showdown against the Cleveland Cavaliers, per ESPN.com's Baxter Holmes. "Playing the point guard, it's harder to do that, be aggressive, try to score the ball every time, because you've got to make at least one pass."
Now moving to the Nets, Russell should build on his late-season success and morph into the offensive powerhouse he once projected to be. While that transition will undoubtedly take time, Russell figures to have more space and time to evolve under head coach Kenny Atkinson since he's no longer being shuffled around a crowded Lakers backcourt.  

Dwyane Wade is returning to the Windy City for at least one more season.
According to Vincent Goodwill of CSN Chicago, Wade will exercise his $23.8 million player option for the 2017-18 season. Wade's decision to opt into the final year of his deal with the Chicago Bulls comes after he told reporters in April he was comfortable with whatever route he decided to take. 
"I have a great luxury," he said, per ESPN.com's Nick Friedell. "I don't need to ring-chase, but I can. It's a great luxury to have if I want to do.
"Or I can be a part of passing down my knowledge to younger players. It's either way. Whatever I decide, I'm going to embrace whatever role I have on a team. That's sometimes being the second option. Sometimes I'm going to be the first."
The Bulls encountered their fair share of ups and downs during Wade's first season with the team, but he remained plenty effective at 35 years old. 
In 60 regular-season appearances, Wade averaged 18.3 points, 4.5 rebounds, 3.8 assists and 1.4 steals while shooting 43.4 percent from the field and 31.0 percent from three. He also posted an above-average player efficiency rating (18.5) for the 14th straight season. 
However, the Bulls—who went 41-41 during the regular season—squandered a 2-0 series lead against the Boston Celtics in the first round of the playoffs.
"Losing, it's never easy," Wade said, per Friedell. "Especially when you've won championships before, whenever you lose, it always sucks. But you sit back, you reflect, you look on the positives, you look on things that came out of it."
Now headed back to Chicago, Wade will try to push the Bulls up the Eastern Conference standings. The Bulls could make a more earnest push if Jimmy Butler remains in the Windy City as well; however, Goodwill reported Butler may not be with the Bulls much longer, as they actively seek trades for him.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference. 

Portland Trail Blazers guard CJ McCollum thinks criticisms of the Golden State Warriors' superteam are "garbage." 
Appearing on the HoopsHype Podcast with Alex Kennedy on Monday, McCollum said he thought the Warriors caught far too much flack for adding Kevin Durant to their 73-win core last July. 
"No, no, I think that's garbage, man," McCollum said of the notion the Warriors are bad for the game. "I think they've done things the right way. It's not like they cheated. They drafted well. They developed players within. Steph, Klay, Draymond, those players were drafted. And then they bring in an outsider in KD, who was a free agent, had every right to sign with whatever team he wanted.
"I don't understand how that's considered bad for the game. If anything, other teams need to get better. Other teams need to figure out ways to execute trades, to execute in the draft, develop players internally and try to put something together." 
That sentiment has been echoed to a degree by LeBron James—who told reporters on June 8 he thought the Warriors were good for the NBA even if they threw the league's competitive balance off-kilter. 
"It's part of the rules," James said of the Warriors adding Durant, according to the Associated Press' Tom Withers (via NBA.com). "Is it fair? I don't care. It's great for our league. Right now, look at our TV ratings, look at the money our league is pouring in. I mean, who am I to say if it's fair or not?"
"I'm not one to judge and say if it's fair or not if guys are adding players to their team," James added. "It happens. It's sports. You have an opportunity to sign one of the best players, and you can do it, go ahead and do it."
To McCollum's point, the pressure is on the NBA's other 29 teams to try to build legitimate challengers who can take down the defending champions in the years ahead. 
For now, the Cavaliers appear focused on stockpiling their superstar arsenal further. 
Since the season ended, the Wine and Gold have been linked to Indiana Pacers swingman Paul George, per Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com, and Chicago Bulls guard Jimmy Butler in trade rumors. 
On Tuesday, CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill reported the Cavaliers are one of the teams engaging the Bulls in trade talks revolving around Butler in advance of Thursday's draft. 

Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert interviewed Chauncey Billups for the team's general manager opening Tuesday, ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin reported.
The Cavs announced Monday they would not renew the contract of David Griffin, leaving the team without a GM.
Should Billups join Cleveland's front office, he may not take over as GM. The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported Monday that Billups could become president of basketball operations and then help hire a new GM.
ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported Justin Zanik is among the candidates to replace Griffin. Zanik was most recently the Milwaukee Bucks assistant GM.
With LeBron James entering the final guaranteed year of his contract, many are wondering how he'd react to challenging for an NBA title with a first-year executive such as Billups pulling the strings behind the scenes.
According to Turner Sports analyst David Aldridge, James is waiting to see how things play out:
Told @KingJames keeping open mind, but wants to see who Billups/Cavs put in place. James is "very serious about structure,” says source.
Whoever takes over as the Cavaliers general manager will have the difficult task of upgrading the roster with next to no financial flexibility. The specter of James' impending free agency will also loom over the 2017-18 season.
Considering the expediency with which the Cavs identified Billups as a target and met with him for an interview, they likely won't take long to fill out their front office.

While Kyle Lowry will have a tough decision ahead of him as a free agent, Toronto Raptors president Masai Ujiri believes the point guard wants to return.
"He's been a part of our organization, and he says he wants to come back," Ujiri said Tuesday, per ESPN.com.
This comes after Bruce Arthur of the Toronto Star reported Lowry had "zero interest" in returning to the team as of mid-May.
Lowry took to Twitter to denounce the story:
I dont do this ever but :
Don't believe what you hear !! Especially if it didn't come from me, and that bs FOR SURE didn't come from me..GN
"I know what Kyle has told me," Ujiri added. "Kyle has been here working out—he actually just left—so I know what he has been telling me. I can only believe what he tells me, not the famous 'sources.'"
The 31-year-old joined the Raptors in 2012 after spending his first six years as a backup or role player with the Memphis Grizzlies and Houston Rockets. In five seasons with Toronto, he has transformed into one of the best guards in the NBA, earning an All-Star selection in each of the last three years.
Last season he set a career highs with 22.4 points per game and 41.2 percent three-point shooting to go with 7.0 assists and 1.5 steals per game. Alongside fellow All-Star DeMar DeRozan, the Raptors reached the Eastern Conference Finals for the first time in their history in 2016.
Lowry now has to decide if he wants to continue building with the Raptors or find a better situation elsewhere.

As the New York Knicks continue to figure out how to build their roster, shopping Kristaps Porzingis reportedly isn't something they are doing.
B/R's Howard Beck reported that while the Knicks have taken calls on Porzingis, they "aren't shopping him" and to "disregard" talk the 21-year-old will be dealt.
This comes on the heels of Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reporting earlier Tuesday that NBA teams were aware Knicks president Phil Jackson didn't rule out the possibility of dealing Porzingis. 
The Latvian star has had a tumultuous relationship with the Knicks since the season ended. ESPN's Ian Begley reported on April 15 that Porzingis skipped his exit meeting with team management due to growing frustration with the "dysfunction and drama surrounding the organization."
Porzingis, who was drafted fourth overall by the Knicks in 2015, averaged 18.1 points, 7.2 rebounds and 1.5 assists in 66 games last season. 

Cleveland Cavaliers forward Richard Jefferson expressed shock over the departure of general manager David Griffin, likening him to Chicago Cubs president Theo Epstein.
"He's the Theo Epstein of basketball," Jefferson told ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin on Tuesday. "He ended the curse. Not just for a team, but for an entire city."
The Cavaliers announced Griffin would not return Monday. Griffin was the team's general manager each of the last three seasons, helping lead the Cavaliers to three straight NBA Finals appearances and the 2015-16 title. 
"On behalf of the entire organization, I would like to thank Griff for his leadership and many contributions during his time here, including most recently, his role in the franchise’s first NBA championship," owner Dan Gilbert said in a statement.
"We have no announcement at this time related to new leadership of the Cavaliers basketball operations group, but we are confident our current front office will continue to aggressively explore and pursue opportunities to improve our team in the weeks ahead."
LeBron James seemed to shade the organization late Monday night, tweeting "If no one appreciated you Griff I did, and hopefully all the people of Cleveland!" James' contentious relationship with Gilbert is well-documented, as is his admiration for the job Griffin did as general manager. Griffin hinted at his own relationship with Gilbert becoming untenable in a statement provided to McMenamin.  
"I am extremely excited for my next challenge in the NBA, however, Dan and I know now that are a team built largely on the concept of fit and we now at a point where the fit is not right for us to continue with one another," Griffin wrote.
Jefferson said the situation was a "no-fault divorce," but still seemed to hint that players are used to an unconventional organization strategy, per McMenamin. 
"We shouldn't be shocked after we fired our head coach when we were in first place in the middle of the season," Jefferson said, referring to former coach David Blatt. "Still, it's surprising."
Suffice it to say things are a lot more fissured than they should be for an organization coming off three straight Finals appearances. 

On Tuesday, the Minnesota Timberwolves announced in a statement they waived center Nikola Pekovic.
Pekovic, 31, spent the last seven seasons with the Timberwolves. During that stretch, he averaged 12.6 points and 6.7 rebounds per game on 51.8 percent shooting from the field.          
However, foot and ankle injuries derailed his career, as they limited him to 97 total games between the 2013-14 and 2015-16 seasons. 
Pekovic didn't appear in a single game during the 2016-17 campaign because of recurring ankle troubles. 
When healthy, though, Pekovic proved to be one of the most imposing bigs the NBA had to offer for a short period in time. 
In 54 appearances during the 2013-14 season, he was one of seven players—along with Blake Griffin, Anthony Davis, Dwight Howard, Al Jefferson, David Lee and Al Horford—to average at least 17 points and eight rebounds while shooting better than 50 percent from the field. 
The 2008 No. 31 overall pick—who was due a guaranteed $11.6 million next season—will have to prove chronic lower-body ailments are a thing of the past in order to earn another shot in the Association.   

The Boston Celtics may draft Josh Jackson with the No. 3 pick, but they still haven't gotten an up-close look at the former Kansas star.
According to Dave McMenamin of ESPN, Jackson didn't work out for Boston on Tuesday as projected. He still hasn't met with team personnel ahead of Thursday's NBA draft.
The Celtics owned the No. 1 pick but dealt it to the Philadelphia 76ers for the No. 3 pick and a future first-rounder, per ESPN.
With Markelle Fultz and Lonzo Ball expected to go Nos. 1 and 2 overall, many project Boston to take either Jackson or Jayson Tatum. McMenamin reported Tatum already had a private workout with the team.
Although an up-close look at Jackson would help, it's also possible the Celtics have already decided. General manager Danny Ainge explained Monday that the No. 3 selection will likely be the player they would have taken at No. 1 anyway, per Jeff Zillgitt of USA Today.
Whether the team takes the high-scoring Tatum, the versatile Jackson or someone else, there will be plenty of risk regardless of predraft visits.

As most of the basketball world intently awaits a Paul George trade, the Chicago Bulls have reportedly made star Jimmy Butler available as well.
Vincent Goodwill of CSN Chicago reported Tuesday that the Bulls are "actively" shopping Butler prior to the 2017 NBA draft on Thursday at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. This runs contrary to previous trade talks in which the Bulls were passive listeners to other teams' offerings.
The Boston Celtics and Cleveland Cavaliers are the clear top two contenders for Butler, who has made the last three Eastern Conference All-Star teams and was a third-team All-NBA selection in 2016-17.
According to Goodwill, the Celtics were not interested, however, when the Bulls attempted to swap Butler for the No. 3 overall pick.
Butler's contract makes him far more valuable—and thus harder to trade for—than George. Whereas George will become an unrestricted free agent next summer, Butler's deal has two more guaranteed seasons before he can opt out in 2019.
Goodwill's report said the Bulls front office wishes to "free" head coach Fred Hoiberg of Butler after two years of trying (and failing) to build a strong relationship. Chicago has gone 83-81 under Hoiberg after winning at least 45 games in each of Tom Thibodeau's five years with the team.
Trading Butler at this juncture should be the beginning of a full-scale rebuild. The Bulls aimlessly treaded water last season with a crowded veteran backcourt and probably the worst shooting roster in the league. 
A Butler trade may also allow the Bulls to get out from under Dwyane Wade's contract for next season. Even if Wade is looking at a steep pay cut in free agency, he isn't likely to want to play for a team that will win 25-30 games. ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne reported Wade is leaning toward opting into his $24 million option in 2017-18 "regardless of what the Bulls do" in regard to Butler.               
Butler and Wade are known to have a close relationship, though, with the former helping recruit the latter from the Miami Heat, per Alex Kennedy of HoopsHype. If Butler winds up going before Thursday, Wade could change his mind before his June 27 decision date. 

With two days to go before the 2017 NBA draft, the Houston Rockets are reportedly shopping veteran guard Patrick Beverley. 
Per Sean Deveney of the Sporting News, the Rockets are "actively shopping" Beverley to possibly create salary-cap space to pursue free agents, and he's helping to consult the team about a potential move. 
Beverley has been the subject of trade rumors and speculation for more than one year.
ESPN's Brian Windhorst reported in Feb. 2016 the Rockets were making calls prior to the trade deadline to gauge teams' interest in acquiring Beverley. 
ESPN.com's Calvin Watkins reported last February the Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers expressed interest in trading for Beverley, though nothing ultimately came of those discussions. 
Beverley is owed $5.5 million next season with a player option for 2018-19, per Spotrac. The 28-year-old averaged 9.5 points, 5.9 rebounds and 4.2 assists in 67 games last season. 

As Andre Iguodala prepares for free agency, the veteran forward addressed his situation Tuesday by calling into a San Francisco radio station. 
Iguodala called the KBLX Dream Team on 95.7 The Game to say that he remains hopeful of working something out with the Golden State Warriors but will explore his options, via Comcast SportsNet's Drew Shiller: 
"Business is business so you gotta do your due diligence. And I'll let my people do their thing, see how that goes. The Bay has been special to me, so you always have your perfect situation and hopefully that gets done." ...
... "I'm gonna let my people do their job. And I just want everybody to be respectful of that and not get too emotional about it because I've been getting hit up crazy and I haven't said anything. And I just had a newborn (a baby girl) so I've been at home, trying to be a good father."
There have been conflicting reports about Iguodala's plans this summer. Tim Kawakami of the Bay Area News Group reported Friday the two sides were still ironing out the number of years, but Iguodala would "likely" sign a multi-year deal with the Warriors worth between $8 million and $12 million per season. 
The Vertical's Shams Charania reported Monday that Iguodala will "seriously consider" offers from other teams when free agency starts in July and his salary could reach $20 million per season. 
Iguodala, who was the 2015 NBA Finals MVP, is a great two-way player. He ranked fifth on the Warriors with 6.9 win shares and tied for fourth with 2.9 defensive win shares last season, per Basketball-Reference.com.

We knew the list of Paul George suitors would be long. Now we have a handful of teams that have reportedly had tangible discussions with the Indiana Pacers ahead of Thursday's NBA draft.
ESPN's Marc Stein reported the Los Angeles Lakers, Houston Rockets, Los Angeles Clippers, Washington Wizards and Cleveland Cavaliers have had talks about adding the All-Star swingman.
It's unclear how far along talks are with any of the franchises, but the list should come as no surprise. Each of the five teams has reportedly had interest in adding George, who looks increasingly likely to move sooner rather than later.
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported George has informed the Pacers he plans on leaving the franchise next summer in free agency and prefers to play for the Lakers. General manager Kevin Pritchard has kicked talks into high gear since receiving word from George's representation, engaging with teams all over the league.
Given the depth of this draft, it would behoove Pritchard to move by Thursday if he's going to do so. This is seen as a youth-laden, deep class with a handful of potential All-Stars already in the making and a bevy of future rotation players. One draft pick isn't going to be enough to pry away George, but the Pacers are in a position to at least ask for one additional young player along with a first-round pick.
The Lakers remain the most realistic scenario, given they've built a nice foundation of young players and have two first-round picks Thursday. They are almost certainly not going to relinquish the No. 2 pick, which they're expected to use to select UCLA's Lonzo Ball. But if they send someone like D'Angelo Russell and the No. 28 pick, that's a pretty good haul given how little leverage Indiana has in this situation.
Trading Russell—the 2015 No. 2 overall pick—is still a steep price to pay for the Lakers, yet it's one they may have to. The Cavaliers, Wizards and Rockets in particular have strong enough cores they could convince George to sign a long-term contract should he be traded there. 
The Naked Cowboy strums about Times Square. Elmo and Cookie Monster knockoffs hustle tourists for photos. A camera crew talks among itself to ensure that a topless, painted woman remains outside the frame of the shot.
De’Aaron Fox stays somewhat anonymous and completely poised inside this epicenter of chaos. He wears eyeglasses, a black button-down shirt and blue jeans. He offers a smile to those who do not recognize him but ask for photos nonetheless. “That’s Fox, right?” one man in a business suit asks. “Hey, the Knicks need a guard.”
Fox will be more easily recognizable as the NBA’s MVP in a few years. At least, that’s his plan, and why not? Nearly every other goal on his to-do list has been checked off with the same routine efficiency others clear groceries off their shopping lists.“It probably hasn’t hit me,” says Fox, the latest one-and-done Kentucky point guard bound to be taken early in this week’s NBA draft, in a quieter moment inside Bleacher Report’s midtown offices. “Everything, it seems so normal that we don’t realize how special it really is. Everybody doesn’t get to play in the NBA or go through this process.”
Fox is 19 going on 32 in terms of maturity. The odds of his being spotted outside a nightclub by TMZ are small. His father, Aaron, hammered home years ago that he would be looked at differently. He couldn’t do things other kids did and expect to remain unscathed. “Coming into this basketball thing, you’ve got to be mature beyond your age,” Fox says. “If you’re acting like a teenager in basically a grown man’s world, it’s tough to survive.”
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
His first sit-down interview came in middle school. “You start pretty young now,” he says. “Probably like the sixth grade, this thing called Basketball Spotlight. You can probably still pull it up, and it’s probably still up there.”
Aaron Fox recognized the wisdom his youngest son possessed early on. Aaron, who had played college football at Fort Hays State, called one or two plays at quarterback for a seven-year-old De’Aaron. “Daddy, I’ll just call the plays,” the boy said. “I’ve got everything else.”
De’Aaron Fox’s trainer, Chris Gaston, recalls meeting the star guard when he was in the eighth grade. Fox was a skinny kid with glasses, but Gaston had been sold that Fox was somehow good enough to play with his team of high school upperclassmen.
Gaston put him on the wing and soon thought about benching him after watching Fox’s shot get denied again and again. Instead, on the advice of a coach familiar with Fox, Gaston slid him to point guard. Fox did not have lightning speed off the dribble. That would arrive soon. But he immediately told his teammates where to go on the floor, dissected the defense and slithered inside the lane to finish with a finesse floater.
“I’ve never seen anything like that at that age,” Gaston says. “To see him at that age, being able to command a game with juniors and seniors, that’s special.”
Fox spent one season at Kentucky, where the southpaw dazzled in carving up defenses and piloted the Wildcats to a 32-6 record. Their season ended in the Elite Eight of the NCAA tournament on a wrenching last-second flick of the wrist from North Carolina’s Luke Maye. Cameras afterward caught an emotional Fox, still in uniform and struggling to get his words out through tears, embracing his teammate, Bam Adebayo.
“It's just, after we lost that game, we knew that was our only chance to win a national championship, and just competitiveness spilled over in the locker room,” Fox says.
Lots of emotions for Kentucky after a tough loss (via @joe_mussatto) s://t.co/a5qBBbcuFR
He had known about midway through the season that he would be declaring for the NBA draft. A week after the tournament loss, coach John Calipari performed his annual summons and advised Fox, Adebayo, Malik Monk and Isaiah Briscoe to be next in the long line of early declaring Wildcats dotted throughout the NBA.
“If Coach Cal feels like you’re ready, then you’ve got to be ready,” Fox says. “He’s been through it so many times.”
Fox finished his semester at Kentucky and began splitting his time training in Southern California. He has not returned home to Houston since Christmas.
So much is about to change. So much is up in the air. So little is known. He met with representatives from Under Armour in late May but didn’t sign a deal. “I’m not really worried about a signature shoe yet,” Fox says. “[I’m] just coming into the league, so I’m not really worried about that.”
As far as nerves, tension or jitters?None.
“I feel like it’s just the next step in my basketball career, so from middle school to high school, there was really no nerves. High school to college, there were no nerves, so I don’t want it to change just because I’m about to be a professional,” Fox says.“Some people are so stressed out about where they’re going to get drafted or where they’re going to have to move to. I’m open to live anywhere in the country. As a person, I’m pretty adventurous. I don’t really care where I live, and I’m just hoping that I get drafted to a good fit. That’s really my main concern right now.”
Aaron Fox jokes that he shut down Kenny Payne, Kentucky’s associate head coach, when they played against each other more than two decades ago in a high school basketball game in Mississippi.
“If you give me your son, I’ll say I only had one point,” Payne quipped during De’Aaron’s recruiting process. Payne noticed quickly that other recruits regarded De’Aaron Fox highly.

“To me, that was one of the more intriguing things about recruiting the kid,” Payne says. “Other players, even if they didn't come to Kentucky, how they felt about him as a person. To me, looking at it now, that’s value to an NBA organization. Sometimes as adults, we try to manipulate leadership. You can't. The best leaders don’t need to be manipulated. Their peers already know. I think De'Aaron exemplifies that.”
Fox chose Kentucky because of the family’s familiarity with Payne and Calipari’s assembly-line efficiency in passing players onto the NBA. He decided he could fit in and perform at the school.
“I felt like if I was going to do that and Coach Cal was going to teach me what I needed to know before I went into the NBA, whether that took one year, three years or four years,” Fox says.
His leadership quickly blossomed off the court. Fox could always be spotted in the company of two or three players at meals.
Teammates crowded inside his room at Kentucky to play video games. Fox is a noted gamer and may be one of the first players to credit his skills on the sticks for aiding his hand-eye coordination.
“2K8 or 2K9, they actually put the AI crossover on there and they put the Tim Hardaway crossover, the kind of double behind-the-back stuff,” Fox says. “Now it’s more freelance. You can kind of do whatever you want, but then it was set moves and I was like, ‘Man, that move looks like it’ll work.’ So I started doing it, and it was around like sixth grade my handles started getting up. That’s basically right there where I was stealing moves on 2K.”
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Fox is eager for an environment where he believes he performs best: when the lights are on, a crowd is whipped into a frenzy and the game begins.
He felt that way before his signature game at Kentucky in the Sweet 16 against UCLA. The Bruins had previously beaten the Wildcats—and at home, no less. Fox, though, outplayed UCLA’s Lonzo Ball in the square-off of one-and-done point guards, racking up 20 points and nine assists to Ball’s 14 points, seven assists and six turnovers.
LaVar Ball, Lonzo’s outspoken father, later told ESPN.com he probably would not take Fox with a top-five pick.
“He can’t mess with ‘Zo,” Ball is quoted as saying. “You can have 40 points and Lonzo can have two points and make the game-winner, and I’m going with him. You had more points, but look at who won the game.”
In the first matchup, at Rupp Arena, Payne thought Fox focused too much on wanting to prove his worth over Lonzo Ball.
“From a Kentucky coaches’ standpoint, who’s coaching the kid, we saw that he was better,” Payne says. “He fought. He got down in a stance, and he turned the guy a couple of times. He got rebounds.
“In the second game, he was more focused. He understood winning a little bit better. Winning is another skill that we teach, that we talk about, [that] translates to the NBA. It’s no different than shooting, no different than rebounding, no different than defending. If you’re a winner, that NBA team needs winners, and I think De’Aaron learned more about that.”
By then, a rumor had leaked into the Kentucky locker room that LaVar Ball had dismissed the Kentucky game as a tune-up for UCLA on the way to the Final Four. He had not, but the belief that he did provided more motivation.
“His dad’s technically not part of the team, but he’s a part of the team,” Fox says. “Saying we’re a tune-up game, it’s like, ‘Yeah, OK. We are going to see.’ It definitely gave us more fuel. And they had already beat us at home. We just didn’t want to lose to the same team again.”

Fox dominated the rematch. He scored Kentucky’s first eight points and hit his first five shots, amassing 39 points in the 86-75 win. Lonzo Ball finished with 10 points, eight assists and four turnovers.
The outcome did little to silence LaVar Ball.
“They came up short, but one game doesn’t define his season,” Ball told ESPN.com.
“No one is going to take De’Aaron Fox over him because of one game. It's about your body of work, and people know what he can do.”
Fox’s performance was the product of hard work, like the time he scored around 50 points in a game but missed a handful of free throws. His dad had him practice from the charity stripe right after the game. “Only way he can get better,” the elder Fox says. “He could have had about 60 points if he would have hit those free throws.”
His parents taught him to be humble early on, before Kendrick Lamar made humility a thing.
“You can relax [at home], you can let your hair down here kind of thing,” his mother, Lorraine Fox, says. “But when you’re out and about, don’t embarrass me.”
Lonzo Ball, for his part, is quiet on the court, De’Aaron Fox says. The rest—meaning, of course, LaVar—is just background noise to be tuned out.
“I don’t want anyone talking for me,” Fox says. “I’ll do it myself.”
And yet, Aaron Fox has seen the results of two head-to-head matchups with the UCLA guard. So, in this case, he backs De’Aaron after all, LaVar Ball-style.
“My son already ate his ass up twice,” Aaron Fox says of Lonzo Ball. “[LaVar] can say what he wants to say. I just tell him to go back and watch the film. That’s it. All that yap, yap, yapping, I don’t even got to respond to that. We played them twice. Twice his son got outplayed. I always tell [De’Aaron], let your game speak for it. You ain’t got to talk. You ain’t got to fuss.”
De’Aaron Fox ducks inside a sports and fitness facility, his home away from home, a couple of weeks after his New York visit. The sprawling center rests in Thousand Oaks, a suburb north of Los Angeles, and incubates prospective athletes in sports from beach volleyball to lacrosse. Fox typically works out here three times a day, six days a week, in preparation for the draft.
Fox’s clothing reveals the progress made off the court in recent weeks. He is decked out in an orange and blue Fly Emirates T-shirt and black Nike pants after inking an endorsement deal with the athletic gear conglomerate.
“I played EYBL [Nike Elite Youth Basketball League], so I kind of just already knew the guys,” he says. “I was comfortable around them.”

Fox hopes to establish himself as an NBA player others can relate to.
“I don’t really go out and party or anything like that,” he says. “It’s just being able to connect with fans who most likely, they'll never see you in real life and be able to talk to you. Even liking their tweet can make their day, make their life.
“So, it’s just fun being able to connect with people you’ll never meet in your life. How different people are and how basically basketball or video games, something that's small, can bring a lot of people together.”
Rumors continue to swirl about Fox’s future. The Lakers are likely settling on Ball. The Kings are debating moving up in the draft for a shot at him. Phoenix may opt to add another point guard beyond Eric Bledsoe.
Fox plans to work out for all those teams before the draft.
“I think you just go off of head-to-head,” Fox says of how he ranks against Ball and Markelle Fultz, the presumptive top pick. “Since I never played ‘Kelle, I can’t really say anything about him. I feel like we all bring things to the table. I just feel like all-around game, I feel like I’m the best player in the draft, and at some point, it’ll be proven or somebody has to come out on top.”
Fox has continued climbing mock drafts.
“Honestly, right now, people are taking into account the way I was playing at the end of this season more than they were when it was the end of the season,” Fox says. “It’s kind of weird that I’m shooting up like that, but I’m not going to say that I want it any other way. I’m fine with it.”
There is a place for him, Fox believes, on every NBA roster.

“I studied Tony [Parker],” Fox says. “Tony and Chris [Paul] and actually Kyle Lowry, they're not the most athletic guys, but the way they finish around the rim is crazy. … If I’m that much more athletic than them and they're able to finish around the rim like that, then I feel like if I can study their game and try to take things from them, then I can be able to be even better finishers than they are.”
This year, he watched NBA games not as a fan (although he enjoyed the dynamic triple-double run of Russell Westbrook, his favorite player) but as someone about to enter the league. Fox imagined how he would fit onto different rosters with their pieces already in play.
“I can be a playmaker on both ends,” Fox says. “When I say that, everyone says that my best asset is speed, and I know that it’s up there. But I feel like playmaking [is], because if a play breaks down at the next level, your point guard has to be able to create a shot for someone or themselves, and I feel like I should be able to do that and defensively, try to speed the guards up, try to get steals, play passing lanes, just be able to disrupt.”
“That’s what I mean by defensive playmaker. Tony Allen’s a defensive playmaker. Kyrie [Irving], Chris Paul, John [Wall], Russ [Westbrook], those are offensive playmakers. I feel like I want to be able to do that, and I want to be able to do it on both ends.”
Fox changes into a black Nike T-shirt, shorts and white Kobe’s for a workout. His court is in a corner of the complex with black tarp obstructing the view from outside eyes. Gaston, his trainer, accompanies him. The two have worked intensely on strengthening Fox’s decision-making and pace.
“In high school and college, he’s so much faster and quicker than everybody and you can run by everybody, so you have to find that balance when you get to the NBA, because everybody’s a unique athlete at that level,” Gaston says. “There’s an understanding of your physical gifts, when and how to use them.”
Fox soon stations himself beyond the three-point arc and drains a long jumper.
“I feel like I didn’t show everything that I was capable of [in college],” he says. “It was nobody’s fault but myself. It was just how I was playing, but I feel like I didn’t play my best basketball at Kentucky.”

The counter is that Fox positioned himself to be a top selection in one season of D-I ball. But he often struggled with his shot, converting only 24.6 percent of his three-pointers.
He found that he was bringing the ball farther back on his shot than he did in high school.
“I feel like if I would have shot the ball [better], it would have been a no-brainer for me to be the No. 1 pick, but I didn't shoot the ball well, so it’s something that I’m going to have to prove to people.”
He has no doubt that he will, even if he does not know exactly where yet. Nerves sometimes creep inside Lorraine Fox when she watches her son play. She also played basketball in college, at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, and prided herself on sinking her free throws. She occasionally texts De’Aaron with encouraging thoughts, even during games.
“I’m hoping he’s the No. 1 pick,” Lorraine Fox says. “Is that selfish? That’s what I’m hoping. I’m hoping they call his name first so that I don’t have to sit there long and be nervous. So the sooner they call his name, the better off my nerves would be.”
He will not have too long a wait no matter when he is called. The place is still a mystery, but Fox has had his destination in mind for years.
“I don’t know where I’ll be,” Fox says. “But I hope I’m at least a two-time, three-time All-Star [in five years], really solidified myself in the league. Technically, be a veteran then. But I hope I’ll have a safe spot in the league. I hope I’m considered one of the best guards in the league by then.”
Jonathan Abrams is a senior writer for B/R Mag. A former staff writer at Grantland and sports reporter at the New York Times and the Los Angeles Times, Abrams is also the best-selling author of Boys Among Men: How the Prep-to-Pro Generation Redefined the NBA and Sparked a Basketball Revolution. Follow him on Twitter: @jpdabrams.
Click here to get B/R Mag on the go in the new B/R app for more sports storytelling worth your time, wherever you are.

The Chicago Bulls' 2016-17 NBA season was best described as "ordinary." They were entirely unentertaining.
They had neither the talent to contend for a title nor the up-and-coming player who could excite fans about the future.
While Jimmy Butler had his best season yet, accentuated by his first-time status as an All-NBA player and All-Star starter, there just wasn't much to cheer for. 
Other than that, though, it was a dull season for the Chicago faithful, as the Bovines finished No. 8. After taking a 2-0 series lead over the Boston Celtics, starting point guard Rajon Rondo got injured, and the Celtics won the next four games.
Now the Bulls are a remarkably average team with a remarkably average draft pick. Can they use the latter to shake up the former? 
ESPN's Marc Stein reported that Butler could be involved in a draft-day trade, but until it's official, we have to assume that the front office will be a bland as ever. 
Let's review the Bulls' recent draft history, who they might take and who they probably will pick.

Along with the average team and average pick, the Bulls have a recent history that's pretty average at best.
Butler was their last home run, but that was under former director of college scouting Matt Lloyd, who had a great history. He tabbed guys such as Joakim Noah, Derrick Rose, Taj Gibson, James Johnson (who finally panned out this year) and Butler.
Stephen Noh (now with The Athletic), writing as The Hungarian Jordan for BlogaBull, described the history in 2015 if you would like a good read on the subject.
Since Lloyd departed, here's what the Bulls have done in the draft, where they took each player and where he is ranked in his draft class in career win shares:
Player
Season
Drafted
Rank in Win Shares
Improvement
Marquis Teague
2012
29
54
-25
Tony Snell
2013
20
18
2
Erik Murphy
2013
49
46
3
Doug McDermott
2014
11
15
-4
Cameron Bairstow
2014
49
47
2
Bobby Portis
2015
22
12
10
Denzel Valentine
2016
14
18
-4
Overall, the Bulls haven't been so much as bad in the draft as—you guessed it—average.
Maybe this year they can buck the trend?

The Bulls' needs this year are what they seem to be every year: shooting, youth and athleticism.
As far as position goes, they have needs just about everywhere. The only place they're set for the foreseeable future is with Butler, who can play the 2 or 3. Ergo, the best player available is sound decision-making here.
That quagmire of futility underscores their biggest need of all—a reality check.
Any chance of winning big now is essentially impossible. The gap between the Bulls and the Celtics is large enough, but it's nothing compared to the gulf between them and the Cavaliers.
There's no "magic pick" that is going to vault the Bulls into contention for anything. It seems what they really need is a little "tortoise" mentality of the old "slow and steady wins the race" variety.
Brian Hamilton wrote for Seth's Draft House:
"The 41–41 record last season, that 16th pick it elicited…it's almost too on the nose, one signpost after another as the Bulls circle basketball purgatory, a journey to nowhere indeed. We don't know what name will follow "the Chicago Bulls select" on June 22. We do have a pretty good idea it won't matter."
The Bulls need to maximize the upside of this pick, not minimize the downside. Their recent history of going with "safe picks" hasn't panned out well anyway. So they might as well go with someone for the highest ceiling and think more freshman than senior.
On the court, the Bulls need to get a young player with dynamic potential; off it, their need is enough self-awareness from the front office of vice president of basketball operations John Paxson and general manager Gar Forman to recognize the needs on it.

Since the draft is so uncertain, I looked at mocks from DraftExpress.com, Chad Ford at ESPN.com and Bleacher Report's Chris Roling.
Vijay Vemu at Blogabull.com has a handy "workout tracker" detailing which draft hopefuls have worked out for Bulls. The list is entirely too long to put here, but if you want a thorough assessment of everyone, it's a good place to start.
Looking through all of this, I've separated my favorites into two groups: dreams and probables.
The "dreams" are in the hope that someone falls. A perfect mock is harder to come by than the perfect NCAA bracket. Everything gets so screwed up by the fifth pick that everything else after that is a crapshoot anyway.
"Dreams" are players who could fall out of the lottery into the middle of the draft and who the Bulls should snatch up in a heartbeat if they're available.
I have a separate slide for the "realistic" choices who should be around (and if they're not, it's probably because one of the "dream" picks fell).
            
Frank Ntilikina, PG, France
Ford has Frank Ntilikina going No. 8 to the Knicks, but DraftExpress.com has him dropping all the way to 14th. So why not dream? 
If Ntilikina's there, the Bulls would be foolish to pass on the 18-year-old from France. He's a long-term point guard who is smart, plays both sides of the court and is a pure passer. He also has leadership qualities and championship mettle having played on high-level teams in big-time tournaments.
Landing Ntilikina is unlikely, but considering he's the ideal prospect for Chicago, dreaming a bit doesn't hurt.
        
Zach Collins, C, Gonzaga
B/R's Dan Favale compares Collins to Myles Turner:
"Collins has more hop and walls off the rim better than any of the many, many stretch bigs in this draft class. He can be foul-prone—6.2 personals per 40 minutes—but he has the slanted strides to rotate from ball-handlers to cutting bigs and can end drives to the basket from behind the play."
A lot of the talk about head coach Fred Hoiberg's offense centers around the three-point shooting, but all of that is to set up rolling and cutting rim-runners.
Collins would be a great fit, but he's probably one in the early teens. He's another "if by some miracle he falls…" selection.
          
Luke Kennard, SG, Duke
Luke Kennard is the only player on the "dream" list who has actually worked out for the Bulls. Jonathan Givony and Mike Schmitz broke him down for Draft Express.
What Kennard lacks in measurables he makes up for with tremendous skill, savvy and productivity.
The 21-year-old played the game at a different speed to almost anyone at the college level this season, using polished footwork, body control and feel to get to different spots on the floor and compensate for his decent tools.
He came up big time after time in clutch moments in some of the most important games he competed in, showing a level of swagger and confidence that will have grown on NBA decision-makers over time.

Justin Jackson, SF, North Carolina
Justin Jackson, who many have projected to go to the Bulls, has a familiar refrain to him, as noted by Michael Whitlow of PippenAintEasy.com:
As many have documented already, Jackson fits the mold of the "experienced and successful college player" the Bulls have looked to draft in recent years with guys such as Doug McDermott, Bobby Portis and Denzel Valentine.
Jackson is a solid, two-way player with good instincts. But he has all the feel of another guy who stuck around in college because he didn't have the ceiling to come out earlier.
           
John Collins, PF, Wake Forrest
John Collins is no relation to Zach, but he would be a good fit for the same reasons as his namesake.
Daniel O'Brien of FanRagSports.com has him going to Chicago.
"He's a top-rung athlete who erupted for 19.2 points and 9.8 points in just 26.6 minutes per game last season. Most of Collins' NBA production will come from offensive boards, pick-and-rolls and catch-and-finish opportunities. He has developed solid footwork and body control around the rim, and he also owns a good-looking mid-range jumper."
As an athletic big with good size and solid two-way capabilities (three-point shooting aside), Collins would offer Chicago more upside than Portis. He's projected to go in the mid-first round of most mocks, and the Bulls could realistically be the ones to snatch him up.
         
Jarrett Allen, C, Texas
Chicago could really use help defending the rim. Jarrett Allen, at 6'10" with a 7'5" wingspan, not only helps in that category but is versatile enough to get up and down the court to defend in transition. 
Although Allen has the ability to roll to the basket, his offensive game needs a lot of polish. That said, he believes he could get the job done on that end, according to K.C. Johson of the Chicago Tribune:
"I think I showed them that my shot has come a long way since the season. My free throws have improved. I think my athletic ability translates to the next level, my ability to go get rebounds, block shots and guard guards. I need to get stronger and improve my offensive game."

This feels like such a certainty that we should dub Jackson "the InevitaBull."
Jackson is the perfect "GarPax" pick. K.C. Johnson of the Chicago Tribune noted that even the 22-year-old has that sense:
"Jackson, currently listed as the Bulls' pick in Draft Express' latest mock draft, shot 36.8 percent from the shorter 3-point line while averaging 18.4 points for the Tar Heels. He fits the preferred draft profile of this management team as a three-year player from a blue-chip program.
"'I've definitely seen that trend,' Jackson said. 'I didn't have a conversation with them about it. But I'd love to play for Chicago. The organization is built on greatness.'"
Bulls fans will likely groan, but Jay Boozell from FanRag Sports suggested Jackson should not be written off too quickly:
"And if Chicago takes Jackson, expect Bulls fans to make him out to be the next McDermott or Valentine.
"And that wouldn't be fair to Jackson. Though he might seem to fall in line with the Bulls' head-scratching recent draft history, Jackson doesn't have much in common with McDermott or Valentine other than being a high-profile college player who wasn't a one-and-done."
The main reason for that is simple. Where Jackson separates himself is he's more of a conventional three-and-D player in the mold of Trevor Ariza.
He would actually fit. And his three-point shooting has made real improvement, per Boozell:
"Jackson made the most threes of any projected draft pick, and the degree of difficulty on those looks was extremely high. This wasn't like Josh Jackson, who made 38 percent of his threes on less than half the attempts—the majority of which were wide open. Justin Jackson took tough shots and made a ton. If he were a standstill shooter, he probably would have made over 40 percent of his threes."
Last year, the Bulls were at their best offensively when Butler had shooters like Doug McDermott and Nikola Mirotic around him hitting threes, stretching the court and letting Butler use his complement of driving passing abilities. 
The problem was that neither of those guys is a very good (or, in McDermott's case, even competent) defensive player.
In a perfect world, Jackson has a defined role: get stops and hit open shots. If he does that, he can be a legitimate starter in the NBA, a la Danny Green or Trevor Ariza. That would be enough to vindicate him. If you take all the history out of it, this could, ironically, be the right pick. 
Still, you'll forgive Bulls fans if they hold off believing until they've seen it.

The Los Angeles Lakers have had discussions with the Indiana Pacers about trading for Paul George, ESPN.com's Marc Stein and Ramona Shelburne reported Tuesday.        
The news comes as teams are gearing up for the 2017 NBA draft on Thursday at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York.
The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported Sunday that George told the Pacers he won't re-sign with the franchise at the end of the 2017-18 season and wants to play for the Lakers.
Interest in George is high across the league, with Stein including the Cleveland Cavaliers, Los Angeles Clippers, Houston Rockets and Washington Wizards among the teams that have contacted the Pacers.
According to Stein and Shelburne, the Lakers are reluctant to part with either the No. 2 overall selection in the 2017 draft or last year's No. 2 pick, Brandon Ingram, leaving the two teams at an impasse.
Later on Tuesday, L.A. would trade D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov to the Brooklyn Nets in exchange for Brook Lopez and the No. 27 overall pick in the 2017 NBA Draft, per Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical. This led to the following report from ESPN's Marc Stein: 
Can the Lakers now land Paul George by offering Thursday's No. 27 and 28 picks and either Julius Randle or Jordan Clarkson? They're trying.
George's declaration—while providing clarity about his future—erased a lot of leverage Indiana might have otherwise had.
The longer the Pacers wait to trade George, the less they'll likely get in return, similar to the Sacramento Kings' trade of DeMarcus Cousins to the New Orleans Pelicans prior to the Feb. 23 trade deadline. From Indiana's perspective, Randle as the centerpiece of the deal may not be all that attractive, but the 2014 No. 7 overall pick could be the best the Pacers can get.   

It doesn't get bolder than trading for the NBA draft's top selection.
The Philadelphia 76ers took the crown in this regard recently by swiping the No. 1 pick from the Boston Celtics via a monster of a deal that included a trio of first-round picks. TNT's David Aldridge reported the agreement, with the 76ers expected to select Washington's Markelle Fultz.
Good luck one-upping such a bold move.
Alas, let's attempt to do so below after an updated look at a mock draft. There are plenty of wild rumors flying around right now—such as the Cleveland Cavaliers wanting Chicago Bulls guard Jimmy Butler, according to ESPN.com's Marc Stein.
But the draft shockers aren't over yet. Here's a look at a few more potential noteworthy developments to watch as the draft approaches.
               
2017 NBA Mock Draft
              
Bold Predictions
Lakers Trade Up in 1st Round for TJ Leaf

It's fun to speculate about what the Los Angeles Lakers may or may not do when it comes to names like Paul George. 
But for now, it's best to think Magic Johnson and the front office have an eye on the draft alone. Clutching its second pick tends to force such a focus, though the Lakers don't want to stop there.
The Lakers hold two picks in the opening round, yet sound ready to wheel and deal while acquiring another based off a note from ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne: "The Lakers have engaged at least two teams in the lottery, sources said, as they search for players to improve their outside shooting and perimeter defense."
Granted, this talks about adding another pick. But that's easier said than done and the Lakers don't exactly have a ton of assets to float out there in exchange for a valuable asset. And the ones they do, the front office doesn't sound keen on moving yet, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski:
For now, LA resisting salary dumps on Mozgov or Deng needed to clear future space. Teams trying to snag pick/young player to absorb deals.
The above mock doesn't reflect hypothetical trades, but look for the Lakers to at a bare minimum move up and get a guy they like.
UCLA's TJ Leaf certainly fits the bill.
A 6'10", 225-pound forward, Leaf averaged 16.3 points on 61.7 percent shooting from the floor and 46.6 percent shooting from three-point range as a freshman. His perimeter shooting will help space the floor for the draft's second pick, not to mention guys like D'Angelo Russell and Brandon Ingram.
The Lakers trading up from No. 28 to get Leaf is a nice balance. It's less costly from an asset perspective and the 28th pick isn't a huge loss because a trio of first-round picks weren't all going to see the floor. Leaf will as a rookie at least on a rotational basis while sticking close to UCLA.
         
Dennis Smith Jr. Falls to Mavericks

The Dallas Mavericks feel like a team with one foot hanging off the side of a cliff more so than any other. 
One wrong move in the top 10 this year, the other foot swings over the gap and the franchise goes tumbling for years. One quality decision and the airborne foot swings back the other way to solid ground.
On paper, NC State's Dennis Smith Jr. is that solid ground.
Smith is a top-five or even top-three pick in most draft classes. He's not this year because of the incredible quality of point guards, but it's still a big shock to see him fall to the Mavericks above at No. 9.
After all, Smith is 6'2" and 190 pounds of freakish athleticism he puts to use by slashing to the basket at will. An ESPN.com scouting report from late March sums up his strengths quite well: "Smith's combination of elite athleticism and offensive firepower makes him a very attractive draft prospect. He's an explosive leaper who can finish high above the rim. He's quick off the bounce and excels at getting to the rim, and he showed an improved three by shooting 36 percent from beyond the arc this season."
So no, it's not too hard to see why the high-end comparison for Smith is Russell Westbrook. For the Mavericks, getting a Westbrook of their own is a best-case scenario.
The Mavericks only have so much time before handing things over from Dirk Nowitzki to Nerlens Noel. The backcourt is a mess, and the Harrison Barnes deal will keep drawing scrutiny until the rest of the roster improves.
Smith's arrival helps in all these areas, even if the results aren't obvious right away. In hindsight, this bold mock development might look like the best move of the draft.
          
Lonzo Ball Takes a Dive

Somebody has to do it. 
The Lakers drafting Lonzo Ball seems like the most obvious move of the 2017 draft and honestly has since before the collegiate season even began, because we knew Ball would shine and the Lakers...not so much.
But things change in a hurry when the draft nears.
Look, this is smokescreen season. But Wojnarowski reported the Lakers wanted to trade up to No. 1 but couldn't compete with Philadelphia's offer. Now a report from ESPN.com's Chad Ford suggests the Lakers would entertain a trade down to No. 4 if the Phoenix Suns offer a first-round pick.
Remember the above? Los Angeles would love another selection in the first round. These don't seem like mere smokescreens, either—a move up suggested targeting Fultz, a willingness to move down suggests they either think Ball will fall or they don't value him enough to stand pat in the face of a good offer.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
And why would they? Ball is a great passer, but he's not an explosive athlete by any means. The way the league keeps developing, this could be a bigger issue than most realize. Feel free to sprinkle in the distraction factor, the LaVar Ball factor and Lonzo disappointing in his first workout with the team, per Ford.
According to the same writeup, the Lakers-Ball hype might mostly stem from past members of the organization: "I also think it reflects a genuine split within the organization about whom the best long-term candidate is. Ball was a clear favorite of the prior administration run by Mitch Kupchak and still has his fans within the organization."
Understand that Ball falling a bit won't hurt his career. Almost every note above makes it a point to stress how much Phoenix likes him. His playing next to Devin Booker would form perhaps one of the NBA's best young backcourts for a long time—and makes for an incredible revenge rivalry with the Lakers.
            
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.
@hornets @LAClippers You drive a hard bargain, Hornets. You're lucky the trade machine still accepts.  Deal! s://t.co/7Jl7unR0oI
There's no resting during the NBA offseason. NBA executives are busy planning personnel moves, and players are preparing physically and mentally for another grueling season.
Social media managers, meanwhile, may have too much free time on their hands.
As the Atlanta Hawks bemoaned, running an NBA team's Twitter account largely entails dealing with unrealistic fans.
According to our mentions, we should trade for everybody.
This harmless joke sparked swift reaction around the league. When the Charlotte Hornets showed sympathy, Atlanta responded with a trade offer to appease its restless fans.
@hornets We'll trade you today's tweet for tomorrow's tweet and an unprotected future tweet.
The Los Angeles Clippers joined the conversation to broker negotiations through ESPN's NBA Trade Machine.
@LAClippers @hornets The Clippers are correct...ESPN trade machine says okay: s://t.co/r1eLa5dptV
Charlotte played hard ball, extending the talk beyond Twitter assets.
@hornets @LAClippers Counter offer: s://t.co/f77z3vmU7w
The tense standoff eventually yielded a done deal.
@hornets @LAClippers You drive a hard bargain, Hornets. You're lucky the trade machine still accepts.  Deal! s://t.co/7Jl7unR0oI
@hornets @LAClippers Can't wait to see how the writers grade this trade tomorrow 🤔
This writer gives the Hawks an "A," mostly because he doesn't know what a puppy filter is. The Brooklyn Nets also joined the fun, which must mean Billy King didn't mortgage their Twitter future for Paul Pierce's clip art emoji. 


We've reached the point where Phil Jackson gets killed for doing the job we often kill him for not doing.
Think about it: For three years, we've mocked Jackson for how little effort he seems to devote to his position as New York Knicks head honcho. We laugh at reports that teams have trouble reaching him in the lead-up to the trade deadline. We snicker about his late arrival to the NBA Draft Combine or his decision to not attend the ACC tournament, even when it's just a subway ride away in Brooklyn.
All of this, combined with the myriad poor trades and signings and ill-advised barbs and devotion to an outdated system—and let's not forget the losing; wow has there been a lot of losing—have rightfully transformed Jackson, once a revered basketball mind, into a joke. At least that's how many fans, media members and even NBA players and staffers feel.
So when news began to trickle out Tuesday morning that Jackson was considering trading Kristaps Porzingis—perhaps the lone good player Jackson has added to the roster since joining the organization—it's understandable why the knee-jerk reaction was to laugh or, if you're a Knicks fan, cry.
According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, who was the first to report that the Knicks were taking calls from opposing teams about Porzingis, Jackson met Monday night with Arizona big man Lauri Markkanen in New York City. Markkanen, a 7-foot forward with a smooth jumper projected to go in the top 10 during Thursday night's NBA draft, confirmed Tuesday morning in an interview at Bleacher Report's office that the meeting took place.
"Not too much," Markkanen said when asked what he could share about the meeting. "I can probably say I went to dinner."
Markkanen added that several members from the Knicks front office were in attendance. Also, he ate steak.
The point of the meeting, according to Wojnarowski's reporting, was to probe whether Markkanen could serve as a worthy replacement for Porzingis. The Knicks own the No. 8 pick overall and, as this line of thinking goes, could use that selection to fill Porzingis' spot if KP were in fact traded.
Adding fuel to the fire: On Tuesday we also learned, courtesy of ESPN's Ian Begley, that the Knicks haven't spoken to Porzingis since he blew off his exit meeting in April. Oh, and the New York Daily News' Stefan Bondy reported that the Boston Celtics are one of the teams interested in Porzingis.

So that's the background. The question is: What should we make of all this?
The easy answer is that Jackson is a buffoon for even considering trading away New York City's beloved unicorn. And, of course, nothing about the job Jackson has done as a basketball executive should make Knicks fans feel optimistic about his ability to flip Porzingis for a fair haul.
But for a second, remove Jackson's past blunders from the equation. Instead, think about these rumors generically: This is the president of a bad and near-hopeless team meeting with as many prospects as possible prior to the draft, and then listening to as many offers as possible for his one asset. Is there something wrong with that? Isn't that the very thing Knicks fans want Jackson to be doing?
"You should meet with as many guys as possible regardless of current interest," an Eastern Conference assistant coach put it to Bleacher Report. "Start getting to know them. You never know when they may cross your path later."
Of course, this is a dangerous game. The Knicks' relationship with Porzingis was already on rocky ground. This information leaking out is only going to make things worse.
But right now all we know is that Jackson is finally acting like a president of basketball operations. That doesn't mean Knicks fans should suddenly trust him. Nor should they tuck away any fear they might have that Jackson elects to flip Porzingis for a pupu platter of triangle-friendly junk.
Right now, though, all we know is that Jackson is familiarizing himself with all his options. That in itself is not something deserving of being mocked.
   
Yaron Weitzman covers the Knicks, and other things, for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter @YaronWeitzman and listen to his Knicks-themed podcast here.

Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star Kyrie Irving could try to force a trade if LeBron James leaves the organization as a free agent after next season.        
On Tuesday, Joe Cowley of the Chicago Sun-Times reported Irving has let some of his former Team USA teammates "know that he might be willing to push for a trade, especially if he feels the Cavs' run could end quickly with James able to opt out after next season."
James can opt out of his deal after the 2017-18 season. Irving is under contract through the 2018-19 campaign with a player option for 2019-20. 
The Cavaliers are facing a critical offseason this summer despite coming off three straight appearances in the NBA Finals. The team announced Monday that general manager David Griffin would not be returning when his contract expires June 30, via David Aldridge of NBA.com. 
Irving has spent his entire six-year NBA career with the Cavaliers since they drafted him No. 1 overall in 2011. He is a four-time All-Star and was named to the All-NBA third team in 2014-15. 

The Chicago Bulls and New York Knicks reportedly have interest in selecting Kansas star Josh Jackson in the 2017 NBA draft on Thursday. 
ESPN's Ramona Shelburne reported Jackson is a "name of strong interest" for both the Knicks and Bulls in the draft. 
If either the Bulls or Knicks want to have a shot at drafting Jackson, it will likely require a blockbuster trade. The Knicks currently own the No. 8 selection, and the Bulls' first choice comes at No. 16. 
Both teams have stars being mentioned in trade rumors leading up to the draft. Joe Cowley of the Chicago Sun-Times reported Bulls star Jimmy Butler would be in favor of a trade to the Cleveland Cavaliers and has spoken with LeBron James and Kyrie Irving. 
ESPN's Marc Stein reported Monday the Cavaliers were trying to piece together multiteam scenarios with the hope of acquiring Butler. 
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Knicks President Phil Jackson hasn't ruled out trading Kristaps Porzingis, and there is a "frenzy of interest is growing" from teams around the NBA. 
Jackson is regarded as one of the top players in this year's draft class, with B/R's Jonathan Wasserman having him go No. 2 to the Los Angeles Lakers in his most recent mock draft. 

To borrow a phrase, the Cleveland Cavaliers almost have it all.
LeBron James. Kyrie Irving. Kevin Love. Tristan Thompson. Positive locker room personalities. Three straight NBA Finals appearances, with an open invitation to many more.
Oh, and of course: They have a Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy. That was just a year ago.
And now they have an opening at general manager—a position that's fast devolving into one of the league's least appealing posts.
Sources told ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst and Dave McMenamin the Cavaliers and David Griffin, the primary architect of their supporting cast, decided to part ways Monday after failing to reach terms on a new deal. Owner Dan Gilbert confirmed the move and already has Chauncey Billups in his sights as a potential replacement, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski.
Billups' candidacy is, objectively, bizarre. He has zero front office experience. He is, as Wojnarowski notes, in good standing with Gilbert. And he told SI.com's Jake Fischer that Cavaliers head coach Tyronn Lue is his "best friend."

That is the extent of Billups' qualifications—easily connected dots. And yet, this isn't about him. He was essentially a player-coach during his NBA career. He could be a fantastic executive.
This is about the undertaking that awaits the Cavaliers' next general manager. They are inheriting a ready-made title contender for 2017-18. Beyond that, they have no idea what they're getting into.
Rumors circulated that James will consider leaving Cleveland in free agency next summer before the end of the NBA Finals. Wojnarowski said he believes some around the league, both inside and outside the Cavaliers organization, don't even expect him to stay put (h/t NBC Sports).
James remains everything to this franchise despite playing beside two younger All-Stars. Irving and Love have yet to prove they can carry LeBron-less lineups for long periods of time. They were outscored by 3.1 points per 100 possessions when playing together without him during the regular season. Then, through their 31 minutes of solo time in the playoffs, Cleveland was a minus-25.2.
Let's simplify this further: The Cavaliers have the best player in the world. He might have the urge to leave in one year's time. Their response is to...ditch the guy responsible for bringing in key role players like Channing Frye, Kyle Korver, JR Smith and Iman Shumpert for basically nothing.
Gilbert must have consulted James on Griffin's exit. That's the only explanation.
Except, he didn't, per Windhorst and his colleague McMenamin. Sources described James as "disappointed" to Bleacher Report's Howard Beck, and the four-time MVP didn't hesitate to throw apparent shade at Gilbert on Twitter:
If no one appreciated you Griff I did, and hopefully all the people of Cleveland! Thanks for what u did for the team for 3 yrs! We got us 1🏆
Just like this, Griffin's successor is tasked with superseding Gilbert's negligence. And make no mistake: That's exactly what this is. No one in the organization matters more than James. There is no excuse for cutting loose someone he respected, per Beck.
The next person to play the part of Gilbert's puppet, whoever it is, now finds themselves working from a deficit with James. They have to pitch him on staying in spite of everything that's happened, rather than everything Griffin put around him.
Fortunately for the Cavaliers, they have some avenues of seduction worth exploring—in large part because of Griffin.
He inserted the Cavs into the Jimmy Butler and Paul George sweepstakes, according to McMenamin and Windhorst. Butler specifically is enamored with the idea of playing in Cleveland. A source close to the Cavaliers told the Chicago Sun-Times' Joe Cowley the All-NBA wing would "push" the Chicago Bulls' front office to strike a trade.
Poach Butler or George, and the Cavaliers are instantly greater threats to the Golden State Warriors, the sole team they're building to beat. They wouldn't be favored in a seven-game series, but the outcome wouldn't feel so foregone, either.
But does Cleveland have enough to acquire Butler? Or even George, whose value has plummeted in light of his reported infatuation with playing for the Los Angeles Lakers?

The Cavaliers cannot deal a first-round pick before 2021, an unenviable pickle for which Griffin is responsible. They don't have the cap flexibility to absorb crummy contracts; they'll start the post-draft offseason miles above the luxury-tax apron if they don't renounce the rights to free agent Kyle Korver.
Cleveland's best trade assets outside the Big Three don't hold much value. Tristan Thompson is a dirty-work superhero, but there isn't a robust market for bigs who cannot space the floor, Smith is a streaky shooter and inconsistent defender, and Shumpert is too often a non-factor on offense.
Love is expendable if the Cavaliers are getting back Butler or George, but even his value is dropping. Teams won't want to rebuild around a soon-to-be 29-year-old, and third-party suitors will be turned off by Love's lack of defensive versatility.
Landing Butler or George, meanwhile, doesn't guarantee the Cavaliers much of anything. George can leave next summer; Butler can explore free agency in 2019. Think either of them will stick around without James? Irving might even seek a trade out of town if the Cavaliers lose James, per Cowley.
There is no appeal to this job without James. Lose him, if they haven't already, and the Cavaliers have nothing—not even the track record of staging competent from-scratch projects:
Cavs will now go back to previous plan of winning the lottery multiple times and having generational NBA stars born nearby.
Overlook all this, and what are you left with?
Dan Gilbert, his penchant for burning through front-office execs, and that's it.
With the exception of the perpetual tire fires in Sacramento and Madison Square Garden, is there a worse situation than that? James isn't gone yet, but he could be, at which time the Cavaliers belong in that discussion. In many ways, after all that's happened, and with all that could still go wrong, they belong there now.
So good luck to whoever succeeds Griffin. If history continues to repeat itself in Cleveland, as it feels destined to now, they're going to need it.
   
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Salary information via Basketball Insiders and RealGM.

One year after signing a four-year contract extension with the Houston Rockets, James Harden will reportedly receive a new offer from the team to ensure his long-term future with the franchise. 
On Tuesday, Jonathan Feigen of the Houston Chronicle reported the Rockets "intend to offer Harden a contract extension long before he could hit free agency."       
One person with knowledge of the situation told Feigen that Houston's plan is to "extend [Harden] at the first opportunity."
Harden's recent extension with the Rockets was for $118 million over four years, and it also included a 2019 player option, per Spotrac. 
A five-time All-Star, Harden increased his negotiating leverage with the Rockets after his performance during the 2016-17 season. The 27-year-old set career highs with 29.1 points, 8.1 rebounds and 11.2 assists per game, and he was the only unanimous selection to the All-NBA first team. 
Harden is one of three finalists for the NBA MVP award—which will be announced Monday—along with Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder and Kawhi Leonard of the San Antonio Spurs.
The Rockets went 55-27 last season before losing in six games to the Spurs in the Western Conference Semifinals. 

With Kristaps Porzingis' long-term future with the New York Knicks potentially in flux, the Boston Celtics are among those interested in acquiring the Latvian big man, the New York Daily News' Stefan Bondy reported Tuesday.
The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported Knicks team president Phil Jackson is considering trading Porzingis, with Arizona Wildcats forward Lauri Markkanen identified as a potential replacement.      
Assuming the Knicks are willing to alienate a large part of their fanbase and deal their most promising young star, the Celtics would make a good trading partner.
After trading the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft, Boston now owns the No. 3 selection. The team also has an unprotected first-round pick in 2018 from the Brooklyn Nets and the Los Angele Lakers' first-rounder for next year, which comes with various protections.
ESPN's Chad Ford speculated what it might take to get Porzingis out of the Big Apple:
If I was Danny Ainge I’d give the Knicks 3rd pick, Lakers pick and 1 player on my roster (Thomas, Bradley, Smart, Brown, etc.) for Porzingis
There's almost no way Knicks fans would receive a Porzingis trade well, but the team could at least spin it as a move for the future by getting multiple lottery picks.
For the Celtics, the allure of adding Porzingis is obvious. Boston would greatly benefit from adding a stretch 4 to line up alongside Al Horford in the frontcourt. The team ranked 14th in three-point percentage (35.9 percent).
Porzingis was a 35.7 percent shooter from beyond the arc, but his presence alone would help create open opportunities for teammates since opponents would have to respect his perimeter game.
At the very least, Porzingis would be an offensive upgrade over Amir Johnson and Jonas Jerebko, addressing one of the Celtics' biggest areas of need this summer.

Kristaps Porzingis' brother insists the Latvian star wants to remain with the New York Knicks. 
Per ESPN's Ian Begley, Janis Porzingis said his brother still wants to help the Knicks turn into a winning franchise. 
"Despite how the Knicks are treating their players, Kris wants to stay in New York," Janis said. "He loves the city and he loves the fans and he wants to win with this team. If he's going to be traded, he's going to play out his contract and decide his future on his own."
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Tuesday that Knicks president of basketball operations Phil Jackson hasn't ruled out possibly trading Porzingis, and there is a "frenzy of interest" around the NBA. 
The relationship between Porzingis and the Knicks has been a hot topic in New York since the team's season ended in April.
Begley reported on April 15 Porzingis skipped his end-of-season exit meeting with Knicks management "due to frustration over what he perceives as the dysfunction and drama surrounding the organization."
Porzingis just finished his second season in the NBA. The 21-year-old averaged 18.1 points, 7.2 rebounds and 1.5 assists in 66 games last season. 

We're now at the point in the NBA offseason where fans will be behind on the latest news and rumors unless they refresh Twitter every two minutes or keep NBA TV on constantly. 
The rumors also involve some of the NBA's best players, and if those reports come to fruition, the league's landscape could undergo a seismic shift.
One of the reasons for the potential player movement is the amount of elite talent and depth in this year's NBA draft. Picks have become great commodities this offseason, which wasn't the case in previous years.
Here's a look at three players in trade rumors involving those prized picks.
    
Jimmy Butler
The Chicago Bulls star forward has been the subject of trade rumors for a few years, but the smoke may finally turn into fire as numerous sources report that teams are making concerted efforts to trade for Butler.
Per Vincent Goodwill of CSN Chicago, the Boston Celtics (no surprise there) and Phoenix Suns are in the mix:
Hearing Boston is lurking with #3 and Phoenix is “doing due diligence”, per league sources s://t.co/YTbggeSOI3
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical noted that the Minnesota Timberwolves, who own the seventh pick in the draft, are also vying for Butler.
Sources: Chicago’s price for Jimmy Butler remains elevated, but Minnesota has assets and interest. Sides made preliminary contact this week.
If three teams aren't enough, Marc Stein of ESPN.com notes that the Cleveland Cavaliers are also looking to obtain the former Marquette star:
League sources say the Cavs, until this wild turn, spent much of the day trying to assemble a Jimmy Butler trade. Unclear what happens now.
Two questions to ponder: Which team has the best package to offer Chicago, and which team is the best fit for Butler?
The answer to the first question is the Boston Celtics. If the Bulls want to start a new era, a complete rebuild is the best option. They have the No. 3 pick in this year's draft and a boatload of other picks in future years, as you can see from RealGM here.
Minnesota could offer a package involving the No. 7 pick and one of their young players, such as Andrew Wiggins (Karl-Anthony Towns is undoubtedly off the table), but the idea of acquiring a higher pick from the Celtics and at least a few others might be too enticing to pass up.
The answer to the second question is also the Celtics, who need another elite scorer to compete with the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Eastern Conference crown. Butler could seamlessly slot into the small forward position right away, giving the C's one of the best two-way players in the league.
We'll see what happens, but if Butler goes anywhere, Boston seems like the most plausible destination.
    
Paul George
Wojnarowski dropped yet another Woj Bomb over the weekend when he reported that Paul George told the Indiana Pacers that he intends to leave the team when his contract expires, with his destination likely being the Los Angeles Lakers.
The Pacers obviously don't want to lose George for nothing in free agency, so a trade is their No. 1 option at this point. Per Wojnarowski, "Indiana is asking for a substantial package of talent and draft picks for George."
Sean Deveney of Sporting News reported "the Pacers would like to pull two first-round picks for George, as well as a rotational player." Deveney also mentioned that the Los Angeles Clippers could be in the mix to acquire George.
Although PG-13 is a fantastic player, is it worth trading off a ton of assets for someone who could bolt after just one year for the Lakers? Even if a team wins a championship with George, it is damaging its future (unless George is convinced to stick around, which is certainly no guarantee).
It doesn't even make sense for the Lakers to acquire George now, especially if they can just get him in the 2018 offseason without giving away anything (aside from a long-term deal, of course).
The Pacers could find themselves in a position where they have to settle for a lesser deal for George in order to get at least something in return, but again, any team acquiring George is taking a big risk.
   
D'Angelo Russell
If recent rumors are any indication, Los Angeles Lakers president of basketball operations Magic Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka are moving at warp speed to try to rebuild a team that hasn't made the playoffs since the 2012-13 season.
Per Chad Ford of ESPN.com, the Lakers are looking to acquire a top-12 selection and are willing to part ways with one of their former top draft picks:
Sounds like Lakers are dangling D’Angelo Russell in effort to get another Top 12 pick. Luke Kennard &amp; Zach Collins appear to be targets s://t.co/2NPeEKX4SM
Ramona Shelburne of ESPN.com also noted that the Lakers were looking to pick up an extra first-round selection as well.
Those rumors imply that Los Angeles would look to pick up a point guard with the second selection in the NBA draft to replace D'Angelo Russell, the incumbent floor general.
Per Kevin Ding of Bleacher Report, the Lakers are nearing closer to a final decision on their No. 2 pick, and it looks like former UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball will be the selection.
As Ford noted before, if the Lakers pull off a deal for an additional top-12 pick, they will be looking at former Duke shooting guard Luke Kennard and former Gonzaga big man Zach Collins.
Kennard makes the most sense. If you pair him with Ball in the backcourt, the Lakers would then have a starting five with a dynamite future in Ball, Kennard, Brandon Ingram, Julius Randle and Ivica Zubac. The average age of those players right now is just 20 years old, with Randle being the oldest at 22.
Obviously, there would be some growing pains with such a young lineup, but if they stick together and develop under head coach Luke Walton, the Lakers could begin another dynasty.

On Tuesday, the NBA released the names of the 20 prospects who will be in the green room for Thursday's 2017 NBA draft at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York.       
As seen in this full list courtesy of Sporting News' Sean Deveney, Markelle Fultz, Lonzo Ball and Josh Jackson are the biggest names who will be in attendance:
Here's the list of NBA Draft attendees who will be in the green room on Thursday. s://t.co/fFBF30FWxf
The Philadelphia 76ers will select No. 1 overall after moving up from No. 3 in a trade with the Boston Celtics.
According to ESPN.com, the Sixers are expected to make Fultz the No. 1 overall pick to add to their already-impressive stable of youngsters that includes Ben Simmons, Joel Embiid and Dario Saric.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
The Los Angeles Lakers have yet to publicly tip their hand with regard to what they will do at No. 2, but they have long been linked to Ball.
Ball's outspoken father, LaVar Ball, expressed confidence this week that the former UCLA guard will end up in L.A., per TMZ Sports: "Everybody knows [Lonzo's] going to be a Laker."
With the No. 3 overall pick, Celtics general manager Danny Ainge said he believes the player he wanted all along will still be available, according to ESPN.com: "We think there's a really good chance the player we'll take at [No.] 3 is the same player we would have taken at [No.] 1. So this was a great opportunity to acquire an impactful asset."
ESPN's Chad Ford reported last week that Boston had heavy interest in Jackson.
Among the biggest names who won't be in attendance at the draft are Duke Blue Devils forward Harry Giles and Purdue Boilermakers forward Caleb Swanigan.

Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Tuesday that the "frenzy of interest" from teams hoping to potentially acquire forward Kristaps Porzingis from the New York Knicks is growing.
Wojnarowski added that the interest is due in part to the notion that Knicks president Phil Jackson isn't ruling out the possibility of trading the 7'3" Latvian.
Wojnarowski also reported that Jackson has spoken with Arizona forward Lauri Markkanen, whom the Knicks may consider selecting Thursday with the No. 8 overall pick in the 2017 draft as a replacement for Porzingis if he gets traded.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Frank Ntilikina NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Knicks Rookie
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
While Porzingis is among the NBA's fastest-rising stars, there has been some indications that he may not be happy in the Big Apple.
Per ESPN.com's Ian Begley, the Unicorn skipped exit meetings with Knicks management in April because of frustration over dysfunction within the organization.
Begley reported Tuesday that no one from Knicks management has spoken to Porzingis since he skipped that meeting, but teammates have.
Begley later spoke to Porzingis' brother, Janis, who said that "despite how the Knicks are treating their players, Kris wants to stay in New York."
A tweet from Porzingis' Twitter account in May read "LA Clippers" with three smiley face emojis, but Porzingis later said he had been hacked, according to SI.com.
The Knicks selected Porzingis with the No. 4 overall pick in the 2015 NBA draft, and he has been the team's lone bright spot since then.
In 2016-17, Porzingis averaged 18.1 points, 7.2 rebounds, 2.0 blocks and 1.5 assists per game.
Porzingis is a logical foundation to build around for many years to come, although New York would undoubtedly receive a massive package of picks and prospects that could kick-start its rebuild in exchange for him.

San Antonio Spurs power forward David Lee is reportedly expected to decline his $1.6 million player option for the 2017-18 NBA season in order to hit free agency.
Tom Orsborn of the San Antonio Express-News reported the veteran frontcourt player's likely offseason plans Tuesday.
Lee signed a two-year contract with the Spurs last August to provide depth on the interior.
Last season, the 34-year-old University of Florida product averaged 7.3 points, 5.6 rebounds and 1.6 assists while shooting 59 percent from the field across 79 games, including 10 starts.
Most impressive was his improvement at the defensive end. The inability to win one-on-one battles at that end of the floor has long been an issue for the 2005 first-round pick, but he ranked 21st among power forwards with a plus-1.5 defensive real plus-minus rating in 2016-17, per ESPN.com.
In April, Jeff McDonald of the San Antonio Express-News noted Lee talked about going with the flow under head coach Gregg Popovich.
"I don't pretend to have it all figured out, but that's why he's won five championships," he said. "No matter what he's doing, it's proven that he gets the job done. We've had a very successful year doing things his way, and he's had about 25 successful years doing things his way here. It's not up to us to ask questions. He puts us in the best possible position to win games, so we all say, 'Yes sir,' and do our best when we go out there."
It's unclear whether there will be mutual interest between Lee, who's recovering from a knee injury, and the Spurs for a potential reunion once he hits the open market.
If not, the former member of the New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors, Boston Celtics and Dallas Mavericks should receive ample interest from elsewhere as rotational depth.

Joe Cowley of the Chicago Sun-Times reported Tuesday that Chicago Bulls All-Star swingman Jimmy Butler is rumored to be in favor of a potential trade to the Cleveland Cavaliers.       
Sources told Cowley that Butler has spoken to LeBron James and Kyrie Irving and that indications are Butler may push the Bulls front office to send him to the defending Eastern Conference champs.
ESPN.com's Marc Stein first reported Monday that Cleveland was attempting to put together a deal to pry Butler away from Chicago.
Per Stein, the Cavs are prepared to offer forward Kevin Love as part of the deal but need to get a third team involved to sweeten the pot.
The 27-year-old Butler has been named an All-Star in each of the past three seasons, and he is coming off his best NBA campaign to date, as he averaged 23.9 points, 6.2 rebounds, 5.5 assists and 1.9 steals per game in 2016-17.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Lauri Markkanen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Bulls Rookie
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
LeBron Dunks on the Warriors
Butler also has two years remaining on his contract with a player option for 2019-20, according to Spotrac.
The Cavaliers aren't the only team with reported interest in Butler, as Vincent Goodwill of CSN Chicago mentioned the Boston Celtics and Phoenix Suns, while Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported that the Minnesota Timberwolves had contacted the Bulls.
Cleveland has reached the NBA Finals in each of the past three seasons, but it is 1-2 against the Golden State Warriors and was vanquished in five games this year.
With Love performing inconsistently during the Finals, a swap for Butler is a move that may go a long way toward closing the gap between the Cavs and Dubs.

The 2017 NBA draft is almost here, folks. On Thursday, teams will select future stars and role players from this year's crop of talented rookie prospects. The first team to make its selection will be the Philadelphia 76ers, as they completed a trade to acquire the No. 1 pick on Monday.
Presumably, the 76ers are going to take Washington product Markelle Fultz with the top selection. After that, there's no telling how the draft could unfold.
If you're looking to watch the action in real time, you're in luck. We're here with everything you need to know about the 2017 NBA draft—including television and scheduling information. We'll also examine some of the latest draft buzz and mock the entire first round based on factors like prospect potential, team needs and team fits.
     
2017 NBA Draft
Where: Barclays Center, Brooklyn
When: Thursday, June 22
Time: 7 p.m. ET
National TV: ESPN
Live Stream: WatchESPN
     
2017 NBA Mock Draft
1. Philadelphia 76ers (via Boston): Markelle Fultz, G, Washington
2. Los Angeles Lakers: Lonzo Ball, G, UCLA
3. Boston Celtics (via Philadelphia): Josh Jackson, F, Kansas
4. Phoenix Suns: De'Aaron Fox, G, Kentucky
5. Sacramento Kings (via Philadelphia): Jayson Tatum, F, Duke
6. Orlando Magic: Malik Monk, G, Kentucky
7. Minnesota Timberwolves: Jonathan Isaac, F, Florida State
8. New York Knicks: Lauri Markkanen, F, Arizona
9. Dallas Mavericks: Dennis Smith Jr., G, NC State
10. Sacramento Kings (via New Orleans): Frank Ntilikina, G, France
11. Charlotte Hornets: Zach Collins, C, Gonzaga
12. Detroit Pistons: Harry Giles, C, Duke
13. Denver Nuggets: Ivan Rabb, F, California
14. Miami Heat: Justin Jackson, F, North Carolina
15. Portland Trail Blazers: John Collins, F, Wake Forest
16. Chicago Bulls: Luke Kennard, G, Duke
17. Milwaukee Bucks: Jarrett Allen, C, Texas
18. Indiana Pacers: Tony Bradley, C, North Carolina
19. Atlanta Hawks:  TJ Leaf, F, UCLA
20. Portland Trail Blazers (via Memphis): Dwayne Bacon, F, Florida State
21. Oklahoma City Thunder: OG Anunoby, F, Indiana
22. Brooklyn Nets (via Washington):  Isaiah Hartenstein, F, Germany
23. Toronto Raptors (via LA Clippers): Jordan Bell, F, Oregon
24. Utah Jazz: Justin Patton, C, Creighton
25. Orlando Magic (via Toronto): Caleb Swanigan, F, Purdue
26. Portland Trail Blazers: (via Cleveland): Josh Hart, G, Villanova
27. Brooklyn Nets (via Boston): Sindarius Thornwell, G, South Carolina
28. Los Angeles Lakers (via Houston): Donovan Mitchell, G, Louisville
29. San Antonio Spurs: Terrance Ferguson, G, Australia
30. Utah Jazz (via Golden State): Frank Jackson, G, Duke
       
Latest Buzz
76ers Complete Trade for No. 1
The 76ers and the Boston Celtics had were working on a deal to swap first-round picks over the weekend. They completed that deal on Monday.
"We're thrilled to be able to select what we expect [to] be an impact player with the third pick in this year's very talented draft class, while also adding a highly valuable future asset as we continue to build toward Banner 18," Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge said, via ESPN.com.
As Matt Pepin of the Boston Globe pointed out, that future asset could come in the 2018 or 2019 draft, depending on how things fall next season:
One amazing chart that explains Celtics/76ers trade that you have to read right now and probably didn’t know (part 3 will surprise you) s://t.co/E0grzLK1TP
Essentially, the Celtics will get a 2018 first-rounder if the Los Angeles Lakers struggle in 2017-18 and a 2019 first-rounder if they don't. Unless something unexpected happens between now and the draft, the 76ers will be taking Fultz.
James Herbert of CBSSports.com recently explained why this is the move that makes the most sense for Philadelphia:
"The guard out of Washington is the clear-cut best prospect and the best fit for Philadelphia in this year's draft. He has all the athleticism, size and feel for the game that you want out of a modern-day, attacking guard, and he has all sorts of upside on defense. Next to Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons, the Sixers need a guard who can create but is also comfortable playing off the ball. Fultz is that player and much more. He is the guard of their dreams."
The 76ers have spent the last few years compiling young talent without a big payoff in the standings. Adding Fultz, though, should flesh out the roster to the point that Philadelphia will finally have a competitive team—perhaps even a legitimate contender in the next few years. He'll give the team an athletic offensive option to complement Simmons, while guys like Embiid and Jahlil Okafor control the middle of the court.
For now at least, we can pencil in Fultz at No. 1.
      
Lakers Looking to Add Another Pick, Eventually Add George
Since the future draft capital of the Celtics hinges on what the Lakers do next season, it's worth noting that L.A. is looking to add to its draft ammunition now. The team currently owns two first-round selections—including No. 2 overall—and is reportedly looking to add a third.
According to Ramona Shelburne of ESPN.com, the Lakers have contacted "at least two teams" regarding the acquisition of another first-round pick. Per Shelburne, there have also been inquiries about the team's second overall selection, but the team isn't interested in dealing it.
Los Angeles has been linked to UCLA product Lonzo Ball for much of the draft process and he could be the choice at No. 2. If the Lakers can acquire an additional first-round pick, they could add two more young players to build around.
According to Bleacher Report's Kevin Ding, sources have indicated that the Lakers are indeed closing in on Ball at No. 2. According to Ding, the Lakers are also interested in eventually adding Paul George, who has made it clear that he plans to leave the Indiana Pacers after the season.
With George's time in Indianapolis coming to an end, the team has looked into dealing this offseason. According to Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com, the Pacers began shopping George over the weekend and even contacted the Cleveland Cavaliers.
However, Pacers general manager Kevin Pritchard hasn't been in contact with the Lakers, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski:
Sources: Indiana's Kevin Pritchard engaging teams on trading Paul George, but so far, not Lakers. There's a rental market, but how robust? s://t.co/oM9XrATMr9
It would probably be difficult for the Lakers to acquire George and add another first-round pick this offseason. The team's best bet may be to allow a team to rent George for one year and hope he signs with the Purple and Gold next offseason.
George has shown interest in joining the Lakers in the past.
"A SoCal native, he's been talking about playing for his hometown team, the Lakers, for a long time," Mitch Lawrence of the Sporting News recently explained. "He's never made his long-term intentions a secret within the Pacers locker room, according to former teammates. He wants to wear the purple and gold."
The Lakers have some nice young building blocks now, like D'Angelo Russell, and could add more in this year's draft. If they can round out the roster by adding George next offseason, L.A. could quickly be back in the playoff picture.

The Los Angeles Lakers' rebuild will officially kick into high gear this summer. Magic Johnson has taken over as president of basketball operations, brought in Rob Pelinka as GM after a long career as an agent, and the young core is rounding into shape.
After keeping their top-three protected pick at the lottery, everything seems settled. The Lakers will in all likelihood select UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball with the second overall pick and set up perhaps the most intriguing boom-or-bust scenario for any pick in recent memory.
Ball, mostly through the boisterous mouth of his father, has been billed as the savior of Los Angeles basketball. Bringing him into the fold that already includes Brandon Ingram, Julius Randle and Jordan Clarkson should make for a solid young core to build around.
Or, well, to package for one certain disgruntled star in Indiana. Let's take a look at a pair of Lakers trade rumors making their rounds at the moment and assess what's going to happen.
Paul George Wants to Be a Laker
This has been one of basketball's worst-kept secrets for months. Paul George's tenure in Indiana started winding down the moment the Pacers' core of him, George Hill, Roy Hibbert and David West stopped competing for Eastern Conference championships. Every piece of that core besides him and Lance Stephenson (the prodigal son who returned last season) is gone.
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported George informed the Pacers of his plan to leave in free agency next summer, giving them a full year to decide how to proceed. George prefers to play for the Lakers in what will amount to a homecoming.
Once this domino fell, rumors instantly began flying. The Lakers have enough picks and young assets to make a trade right now. The Pacers aren't in a position to ask for much more than a package highlighted by maybe Russell, another piece and a pick.
But there's a natural school of thought here that the Lakers can and should wait this whole thing out. The Knicks pigeonholed themselves into mediocrity by refusing to wait for Carmelo Anthony to become a free agent in 2011, jettisoning their young core for a player who was going to sign there anyway. Had the Knicks been patient enough to wait things out, they could have used their young assets to give Anthony a co-star and a real chance at actually competing.
We already know George probably fits better as an elite second banana than franchise face—at least if you're competing for a title. 
If George is truly committed to being a Laker, they can wait this thing out.
Lakers Looking to Trade Back into Lottery
Score this one under the "kind of confusing" category. ESPN's Ramona Shelburne reported the Lakers have talked with two teams in the lottery about potentially adding another first-round pick.
The Lakers have No. 28 in addition to No. 2 and would likely look to package that later pick to move up. Shelburne said the team is looking for perimeter shooting and wing defense, which would make Indiana's OG Anunoby and Louisville's Donovan Mitchell decent fits in the late lotto. 
Making matters all the more interesting is what the Lakers would package with No. 28 to move up. If they're 100 percent committed to taking Ball, Jordan Clarkson might make the most sense. The Lakers should spend next season with Russell and Ball as their primary backcourt for as long as possible to see how it meshes.
Russell plays better when he isn't asked to be the primary ball-handler. When I graded him prior to the 2015 draft, I likened him to a left-handed Brandon Roy, someone who can be a great secondary ball-handler but needs the 2 spot to be his primary position.
ESPN's Chad Ford reported the Lakers have dangled Russell for a top-12 pick, which would be a real sell-low even in this class. If you're trading one of these two guards, it's Clarkson 100 times out of 100. 

The beauty of All-Star forward Paul George making it clear he will not stay with the Indiana Pacers beyond this season is he's eliminated all of the guesswork for general manager Kevin Pritchard.
The curse is Pritchard now has the task of getting value for a three-time All-NBA and All-Defensive player in the prime of his career with the entire world knowing he not only has to be moved but also his heart is set on eventually winding up with the Los Angeles Lakers.
One team front-office source said Pritchard's asking price is "picks and young players," while another said a "realistic" return would be "a good young player and a second-round pick" for any team looking at George as strictly a one-year rental.
That's why several league executives anticipate it will be later rather than sooner that Pritchard moves George, possibly even sometime during the season.
"They're going to drag this out," says an Eastern Conference senior VP. "It's always possible somebody jumps out there and offers a lottery pick and a starter, but there's a better chance that teams sit back and wait to see if they're one piece away. It's a big risk. You give too much for a guy who then walks, it could set you back two, three years."

The Lakers have no plans to make a bid for George, ESPN's Ramona Shelburne has reported, and that made sense to several executives; the notion that Los Angeles would give up assets out of fear George might go elsewhere and suddenly change his mind about L.A. didn't.
Pritchard, league sources said, immediately tried to create a bidding war between the Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers by intimating to both teams that the other was interested in George. Several league executives questioned why George would change his mind about going to L.A. to stay long term in Cleveland, assuming that his desire to leave Indianapolis had to do with climate and geography, along with recent rumors that LeBron James could bolt for L.A. next summer.
One Eastern Conference senior VP indicated that the talks, reported by ESPN's Marc Stein, between the Cavs and Chicago Bulls to send shooting guard Jimmy Butler to Cleveland were the result of any George discussion being tabled. The Cavaliers also have already traded their 2017 and 2019 first-round picks. (By league rule, they can't deal their 2018 first-round pick unless they acquire another one, so if Pritchard is set on getting a first-round pick for George, a third team would have to be involved.) 
The Portland Trail Blazers and Denver Nuggets, two young teams who battled for the last playoff spot in the Western Conference last spring, were floated by separate executives as squads that might be willing to rent George if they find themselves moving further up the conference's playoff food chain. Blazers shooting guard CJ McCollum said both on social media in answer to a fan and on a podcast with SportsNet New York's Taylor Rooks that he'd like to see the team go after George. 
"He gives you that star power," he said on the podcast. "You're in the Western Conference. Obviously, there's a lot of very good teams. A lot of teams that are deep. A lot of teams that have three, four horsemen. Some teams have five. And you have to be able to match them blow for blow."
The Blazers have a solid young core in McCollum, point guard Damian Lillard and center Jusuf Nurkic. The Eastern Conference senior VP, though, said he couldn't imagine that George would consider staying with the Blazers beyond next season.
But the notion that Pritchard would settle for a second-round pick and a good young player was immediately shot down by an Eastern Conference personnel director. "KP isn't going to be the one to trade him and get nothing for him," the personnel director said.

Two other front-office executives from different teams independently compared the Pacers' situation with George to what the Denver Nuggets faced with Carmelo Anthony going into the 2010-11 campaign. When Anthony declined to assure then-GM Masai Ujiri before the season started he'd sign an extension, Ujiri did not hesitate to let the league know Anthony was available. The 13-player, three-team deal that sent him to the New York Knicks, though, went down at the February trade deadline six months later. 
And while at first it appeared that New York had gotten the better end of the deal, Ujiri was able to strip the Knicks of enough quality players that Denver still made the playoffs that season, as well as the following two.
"If you wait, it puts pressure on George to play well going into the season," the Eastern Conference senior VP said.
Wherever George lands and whatever Pritchard gets for him, there's only one certainty: Pacers advisor and legendary Celtics forward Larry Bird, who resigned as team president and handed the reins over to Pritchard shortly before George alerted the Pacers of his intentions, still knows how to shake himself free at just the right moment. 
          
Ric Bucher covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @RicBucher.

As the Cleveland Cavaliers transition from their third-straight NBA Finals appearance to a pivotal offseason, they parted ways with general manager David Griffin on Monday.
ESPN's Brian Windhorst and Dave McMenamin broke the surprising news, reporting that Griffin and Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert could not reach an agreement to extend his expiring contract. Per Windhorst, Gilbert did not seek the opinion of an important Griffin supporter, LeBron James.
Dan Gilbert didn't consult with LeBron James prior to parting with David Griffin, sources said. James had advocated for Griffin extension
James, who can opt out of his contract after the 2017-18 season, offered his support after the untimely move.
If no one appreciated you Griff I did, and hopefully all the people of Cleveland! Thanks for what u did for the team for 3 yrs! We got us 1🏆
This major front-office change occurs amid rumors of Griffin eyeing deals for Paul George and Jimmy Butler. Following the unexpected turn, Twitter users questioned Gilbert's leadership acumen.
It’s like an alarm went off for Dan Gilbert. 

Siri: “This is your reminder that it has been four years since you did something stupid"
Dan Gilbert trying to do the entire 1998 Chicago Bulls offseason in one week
Dan Gilbert just can't stay out of his own way. s://t.co/jROOCTEasT
tfw you died for Dan Gilbert's sins and came back but now he's sinning again s://t.co/cEEHRiP5Mz
This just looks comically bad on owner Dan Gilbert's part.  Griffin did a lot in a short amount of time for Cleveland
Although Cleveland has emerged as an Eastern Conference powerhouse, it's hard to give Gilbert any credit. The Cavaliers won the draft lottery the year an all-time great prospect from Ohio entered the draft. Despite his infamous letter following James' decision to leave, they lured him back by receiving the No. 1 pick three more times.
Sometimes I go back and reread Dan Gilbert's letter and laugh s://t.co/trl7LeVLSq
Cavs will now go back to previous plan of winning the lottery multiple times and having generational NBA stars born nearby.
If LeBron grew up in New Mexico instead of Akron, Dan Gilbert would be a bigger joke than Dolan. Ok, maybe that’s extreme. But it’s close?
Where would Gilbert be without a lot of luck and James? It's possible he might find out if his latest questionable call pushes James out the door again.
NBA Owner: You can't possibly alienate your best player &amp; screw up your front office worse than the Kings have"
Dan Gilbert: "Hold my beer"
If Dan Gilbert blows having LeBron not once but twice he's unquestionably the worst owner in NBA history.
Why anyone would work for Dan Gilbert is beyond me s://t.co/8aJBA2hZli


The Orlando Magic and the Walt Disney Company reached an agreement on a jersey sponsorship starting in the 2017-18 NBA season.
On Tuesday, Darren Rovell of ESPN.com passed along a look at how the Disney patch will look on the Magic uniforms:
BREAKING: @OrlandoMagic signs Disney to jersey patch deal for next season, team will sell jerseys with patch at arena. s://t.co/2BJrLJWsiu
Financial terms of the deal weren't immediately announced.
Josh Robbins of the Orlando Sentinel reported it's a three-year sponsorship to cover the league's test period for the new jersey advertisements. The contract also includes "provisions" for an extension should the Association continue with ads after the 2019-20 campaign.
Magic CEO Alex Martins told the Orlando Sentinel the franchise—whose city is home to Walt Disney World—was "incredibly pleased" to reach a deal with Disney.
"This is an opportunity for us to partner with a local giant that we can expand our international reach with," Martins said. "And, conversely, as we travel around the league and our games are broadcast around the world and ultimately as we travel around the world in future international trips, we can help further expose the Disney brand as tied to the NBA and, specifically, to Disney's hometown team. So the outcome could not have been any better. This is the perfect match for both of us in terms of branding on an NBA uniform."
Luke Adams of Hoops Rumors noted other confirmed partnerships for the first year of the evaluation period include the Boston Celtics with General Electric, the Cleveland Cavaliers with Goodyear and the Philadelphia 76ers with StubHub.
The Magic are coming off a 2016-17 season in which they posted a 29-53 record, the fifth-worst mark in the NBA.

San Antonio Spurs center Pau Gasol is reportedly planning to decline the $16.2 million player option in his contract for the 2017-18 NBA season, but he is expected to re-sign with the organization.        
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Tuesday that Gasol and the Spurs are focused on reaching a longer-term agreement to keep him in San Antonio.
The 36-year-old six-time All-Star signed a two-year deal with the team last July to help fill the void left by retired legend Tim Duncan. 
Last season, Gasol averaged a career-low 12.4 points to go along with 7.8 rebounds, 2.3 assists and 1.1 blocks across 64 games as he took on more of a complementary role with the Spurs. He still ranked 15th among qualified centers in player efficiency rating, though, according to ESPN's Hollinger Stats.
In May, the former member of the Memphis Grizzlies, Los Angeles Lakers and Chicago Bulls revealed it wasn't easy to accept lesser involvement, per Melissa Rohlin of the San Antonio Express-News.
"It's been a little bit of a challenge," Gasol said. "I knew it was going to take some time to adjust to a new situation, find out what my role was going to be. And I just tried to follow the lead and the direction of the coaching staff. And I tried to fit in at first, right? You just try to fit in, try not to be disruptive, and do your best at the same time, and be yourself. It was a little bit of an adjustment for me, changing roles."
The Spurs could look to make at least one significant change to the roster before next season after getting swept by the eventual champion Golden State Warriors in the Western Conference Finals. On June 2, ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported point guard Chris Paul is one possible option.
Whether or not San Antonio is able to find the missing piece to keep pace with the star-studded Dubs, it sounds like Gasol will remain in the fold, barring a late change of heart from either side.
The Naked Cowboy strums about Times Square. Elmo and Cookie Monster knockoffs hustle tourists for photos. A camera crew talks among itself to ensure that a topless, painted woman remains outside the frame of the shot.
De’Aaron Fox stays somewhat anonymous and completely poised inside this epicenter of chaos. He wears eyeglasses, a black button-down shirt and blue jeans. He offers a smile to those who do not recognize him but ask for photos nonetheless. “That’s Fox, right?” one man in a business suit asks. “Hey, the Knicks need a guard.”

Fox will be more easily recognizable as the NBA’s MVP in a few years. At least, that’s his plan, and why not? Nearly every other goal on his to-do list has been checked off with the same routine efficiency others clear groceries off their shopping lists.
“It probably hasn’t hit me,” says Fox, the latest one-and-done Kentucky point guard bound to be taken early in this week’s NBA draft, in a quieter moment inside Bleacher Report’s midtown offices. “Everything, it seems so normal that we don’t realize how special it really is. Everybody doesn’t get to play in the NBA or go through this process.”
Fox is 19 going on 32, in terms of his maturity. The odds of his being spotted outside a nightclub by TMZ are small. His father, Aaron, hammered home years ago that he would be looked at differently. He couldn’t do things other kids did and expect to remain unscathed. “Coming into this basketball thing, you’ve got to be mature beyond your age,” Fox says. “If you’re acting like a teenager in basically a grown man’s world, it’s tough to survive.”
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
His first sit-down interview came in middle school. “You start pretty young now,” he says. “Probably like the sixth grade, this thing called Basketball Spotlight. You can probably still pull it up, and it’s probably still up there.”
Aaron Fox recognized the wisdom his youngest son possessed early on. Aaron, who had played college football at Fort Hays State, called one or two plays at quarterback for a seven-year-old De’Aaron. “Daddy, I’ll just call the plays,” the boy said. “I’ve got everything else.”
De’Aaron Fox’s trainer, Chris Gaston, recalls meeting the star guard when he was in the eighth grade. Fox was a skinny kid with glasses, but Gaston had been sold that Fox was somehow good enough to play with his team of high school upperclassmen.
Gaston put him on the wing and soon thought about benching him after watching Fox’s shot get denied again and again. Instead, on the advice of a coach familiar with Fox, Gaston slid him to point guard. Fox did not have lightning speed off the dribble. That would arrive soon. But he immediately told his teammates where to go on the floor, dissected the defense and slithered inside the lane to finish with a finesse floater.
“I’ve never seen anything like that at that age,” Gaston says. “To see him at that age, being able to command a game with juniors and seniors, that’s special.”
Fox spent one season at Kentucky, where the southpaw dazzled in carving up defenses and piloted the Wildcats to a 32-6 record. Their season ended in the Elite Eight of the NCAA tournament on a wrenching last-second flick of the wrist from North Carolina’s Luke Maye. Cameras afterward caught an emotional Fox, still in uniform and struggling to get his words out through tears, embracing his teammate, Bam Adebayo.
“It's just, after we lost that game, we knew that was our only chance to win a national championship, and just competitiveness spilled over in the locker room,” Fox says.

He had known about midway through the season that he would be declaring for the NBA draft. A week after the tournament loss, coach John Calipari performed his annual summons and advised Fox, Adebayo, Malik Monk and Isaiah Briscoe to be next in the long line of early declaring Wildcats dotted throughout the NBA.
“If Coach Cal feels like you’re ready, then you’ve got to be ready,” Fox says. “He’s been through it so many times.”
Fox finished his semester at Kentucky and began splitting his time training in Southern California. He has not returned home to Houston since Christmas.
So much is about to change. So much is up in the air. So little is known. He met with representatives from Under Armour in late May but didn’t sign a deal. “I’m not really worried about a signature shoe yet,” Fox says. “[I’m] just coming into the league, so I’m not really worried about that.”
As far as nerves, tension or jitters?
None.
“I feel like it’s just the next step in my basketball career, so from middle school to high school, there was really no nerves. High school to college, there were no nerves, so I don’t want it to change just because I’m about to be a professional,” Fox says.
“Some people are so stressed out about where they’re going to get drafted or where they’re going to have to move to. I’m open to live anywhere in the country. As a person, I’m pretty adventurous. I don’t really care where I live, and I’m just hoping that I get drafted to a good fit. That’s really my main concern right now.”
Aaron Fox jokes that he shut down Kenny Payne, Kentucky’s associate head coach, when they played against each other more than two decades ago in a high school basketball game in Mississippi.
“If you give me your son, I’ll say I only had one point,” Payne quipped during De’Aaron’s recruiting process. Payne noticed quickly that other recruits regarded De’Aaron Fox highly.
Lots of emotions for Kentucky after a tough loss (via @joe_mussatto) s://t.co/a5qBBbcuFR
“To me, that was one of the more intriguing things about recruiting the kid,” Payne says. “Other players, even if they didn't come to Kentucky, how they felt about him as a person. To me, looking at it now, that’s value to an NBA organization. Sometimes as adults, we try to manipulate leadership. You can't. The best leaders don’t need to be manipulated. Their peers already know. I think De'Aaron exemplifies that.”
Fox chose Kentucky because of the family’s familiarity with Payne and Calipari’s assembly-line efficiency in passing players onto the NBA. He decided he could fit in and perform at the school.
“I felt like if I was going to do that and Coach Cal was going to teach me what I needed to know before I went into the NBA, whether that took one year, three years or four years,” Fox says.
His leadership quickly blossomed off the court. Fox could always be spotted in the company of two or three players at meals.
Teammates crowded inside his room at Kentucky to play video games. Fox is a noted gamer and may be one of the first players to credit his skills on the sticks for aiding his hand-eye coordination.
“2K8 or 2K9, they actually put the AI crossover on there and they put the Tim Hardaway crossover, the kind of double behind-the-back stuff,” Fox says. “Now it’s more freelance. You can kind of do whatever you want, but then it was set moves and I was like, ‘Man, that move looks like it’ll work.’ So I started doing it, and it was around like sixth grade my handles started getting up. That’s basically right there where I was stealing moves on 2K.”

Fox is eager for an environment where he believes he performs best: when the lights are on, a crowd is whipped into a frenzy and the game begins.
He felt that way before his signature game at Kentucky in the Sweet 16 against UCLA. The Bruins had previously beaten the Wildcats—and at home, no less. Fox, though, outplayed UCLA’s Lonzo Ball in the square-off of one-and-done point guards, racking up 20 points and nine assists to Ball’s 14 points, seven assists and six turnovers.
LaVar Ball, Lonzo’s outspoken father, later told ESPN.com he probably would not take Fox with a top-five pick.
“He can’t mess with ‘Zo,” Ball is quoted as saying. “You can have 40 points and Lonzo can have two points and make the game-winner, and I’m going with him. You had more points, but look at who won the game.”
In the first matchup, at Rupp Arena, Payne thought Fox focused too much on wanting to prove his worth over Lonzo Ball.
“From a Kentucky coaches’ standpoint, who’s coaching the kid, we saw that he was better,” Payne says. “He fought. He got down in a stance, and he turned the guy a couple of times. He got rebounds.
“In the second game, he was more focused. He understood winning a little bit better. Winning is another skill that we teach, that we talk about, [that] translates to the NBA. It’s no different than shooting, no different than rebounding, no different than defending. If you’re a winner, that NBA team needs winners, and I think De’Aaron learned more about that.”
By then, a rumor had leaked into the Kentucky locker room that LaVar Ball had dismissed the Kentucky game as a tune-up for UCLA on the way to the Final Four. He had not, but the belief that he did provided more motivation.
“His dad’s technically not part of the team, but he’s a part of the team,” Fox says. “Saying we’re a tune-up game, it’s like, ‘Yeah, OK. We are going to see.’ It definitely gave us more fuel. And they had already beat us at home. We just didn’t want to lose to the same team again.”
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Fox dominated the rematch. He scored Kentucky’s first eight points and hit his first five shots, amassing 39 points in the 86-75 win. Lonzo Ball finished with 10 points, eight assists and four turnovers.
The outcome did little to silence LaVar Ball.
“They came up short, but one game doesn’t define his season,” Ball told ESPN.com. “No one is going to take De’Aaron Fox over him because of one game. It's about your body of work, and people know what he can do.”
Fox’s performance was the product of hard work, like the time he scored around 50 points in a game but missed a handful of free throws. His dad had him practice from the charity stripe right after the game. “Only way he can get better,” the elder Fox says. “He could have had about 60 points if he would have hit those free throws.”
His parents taught him to be humble early on, before Kendrick Lamar made humility a thing.
“You can relax [at home], you can let your hair down here kind of thing,” his mother, Lorraine Fox, says. “But when you’re out and about, don’t embarrass me.”
Lonzo Ball, for his part, is quiet on the court, De’Aaron Fox says. The rest—meaning, of course, LaVar—is just background noise to be tuned out.
“I don’t want anyone talking for me,” Fox says. “I’ll do it myself.”
And yet, Aaron Fox has seen the results of two head-to-head matchups with the UCLA guard. So, in this case, he backs De’Aaron after all, LaVar Ball-style.
“My son already ate his ass up twice,” Aaron Fox says of Lonzo Ball. “[LaVar] can say what he wants to say. I just tell him to go back and watch the film. That’s it. All that yap, yap, yapping, I don’t even got to respond to that. We played them twice. Twice his son got outplayed. I always tell [De’Aaron], let your game speak for it. You ain’t got to talk. You ain’t got to fuss.”
De’Aaron Fox ducks inside a sports and fitness facility, his home away from home, a couple of weeks after his New York visit. The sprawling center rests in Thousand Oaks, a suburb north of Los Angeles, and incubates prospective athletes in sports from beach volleyball to lacrosse. Fox typically works out here three times a day, six days a week, in preparation for the draft.
Fox’s clothing reveals the progress made off the court in recent weeks. He is decked out in an orange and blue Fly Emirates T-shirt and black Nike pants after inking an endorsement deal with the athletic gear conglomerate.
“I played EYBL [Nike Elite Youth Basketball League], so I kind of just already knew the guys,” he says. “I was comfortable around them.”

Fox hopes to establish himself as an NBA player others can relate to.
“I don’t really go out and party or anything like that,” he says. “It’s just being able to connect with fans who most likely, they'll never see you in real life and be able to talk to you. Even liking their tweet can make their day, make their life.
“So, it’s just fun being able to connect with people you’ll never meet in your life. How different people are and how basically basketball or video games, something that's small, can bring a lot of people together.”
Rumors continue to swirl about Fox’s future. The Lakers are likely settling on Ball. The Kings are debating moving up in the draft for a shot at him. Phoenix may opt to add another point guard beyond Eric Bledsoe.
Fox plans to work out for all those teams before the draft.
“I think you just go off of head-to-head,” Fox says of how he ranks against Ball and Markelle Fultz, the presumptive top pick. “Since I never played ‘Kelle, I can’t really say anything about him. I feel like we all bring things to the table. I just feel like all-around game, I feel like I’m the best player in the draft, and at some point, it’ll be proven or somebody has to come out on top.”
Fox has continued climbing mock drafts.
“Honestly, right now, people are taking into account the way I was playing at the end of this season more than they were when it was the end of the season,” Fox says. “It’s kind of weird that I’m shooting up like that, but I’m not going to say that I want it any other way. I’m fine with it.”
There is a place for him, Fox believes, on every NBA roster.
“I studied Tony [Parker],” Fox says. “Tony and Chris [Paul] and actually Kyle Lowry, they're not the most athletic guys, but the way they finish around the rim is crazy. … If I’m that much more athletic than them and they're able to finish around the rim like that, then I feel like if I can study their game and try to take things from them, then I can be able to be even better finishers than they are.”
This year, he watched NBA games not as a fan (although he enjoyed the dynamic triple-double run of Russell Westbrook, his favorite player) but as someone about to enter the league. Fox imagined how he would fit onto different rosters with their pieces already in play.
“I can be a playmaker on both ends,” Fox says. “When I say that, everyone says that my best asset is speed, and I know that it’s up there. But I feel like playmaking [is], because if a play breaks down at the next level, your point guard has to be able to create a shot for someone or themselves, and I feel like I should be able to do that and defensively, try to speed the guards up, try to get steals, play passing lanes, just be able to disrupt.
“That’s what I mean by defensive playmaker. Tony Allen’s a defensive playmaker. Kyrie [Irving], Chris Paul, John [Wall], Russ [Westbrook], those are offensive playmakers. I feel like I want to be able to do that, and I want to be able to do it on both ends.”
Fox changes into a black Nike T-shirt, shorts and white Kobes for a workout. His court is in a corner of the complex with black tarp obstructing the view from outside eyes. Gaston, his trainer, accompanies him. The two have worked intensely on strengthening Fox’s decision-making and pace.
“In high school and college, he’s so much faster and quicker than everybody and you can run by everybody, so you have to find that balance when you get to the NBA, because everybody’s a unique athlete at that level,” Gaston says. “There’s an understanding of your physical gifts, when and how to use them.”

Fox soon stations himself beyond the three-point arc and drains a long jumper.
“I feel like I didn’t show everything that I was capable of [in college],” he says. “It was nobody’s fault but myself. It was just how I was playing, but I feel like I didn’t play my best basketball at Kentucky.”
The counter is that Fox positioned himself to be a top selection in one season of D-I ball. But he often struggled with his shot, converting only 24.6 percent of his three-pointers.
He found that he was bringing the ball farther back on his shot than he did in high school.
“I feel like if I would have shot the ball [better], it would have been a no-brainer for me to be the No. 1 pick, but I didn't shoot the ball well, so it’s something that I’m going to have to prove to people.”
He has no doubt that he will, even if he does not know exactly where yet. Nerves sometimes creep inside Lorraine Fox when she watches her son play. She also played basketball in college, at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, and prided herself on sinking her free throws. She occasionally texts De’Aaron with encouraging thoughts, even during games.
“I’m hoping he’s the No. 1 pick,” Lorraine Fox says. “Is that selfish? That’s what I’m hoping. I’m hoping they call his name first so that I don’t have to sit there long and be nervous. So the sooner they call his name, the better off my nerves would be.”
He will not have too long a wait no matter when he is called. The place is still a mystery, but Fox has had his destination in mind for years.
“I don’t know where I’ll be,” Fox says. “But I hope I’m at least a two-time, three-time All-Star [in five years], really solidified myself in the league. Technically, be a veteran then. But I hope I’ll have a safe spot in the league. I hope I’m considered one of the best guards in the league by then.”
Jonathan Abrams is a senior writer for B/R Mag. A former staff writer at Grantland and sports reporter at the New York Times and the Los Angeles Times, Abrams is also the best-selling author of Boys Among Men: How the Prep-to-Pro Generation Redefined the NBA and Sparked a Basketball Revolution. Follow him on Twitter: @jpdabrams.
Click here to get B/R Mag on the go in the new B/R app for more sports storytelling worth your time, wherever you are.

NBA draft hype and trade rumors collide this time of year and have a way of overshadowing free agency.
But only for so long. Yes, the Philadelphia 76ers acquiring the No. 1 pick from the Boston Celtics, according to TNT's David Aldridge, deserves headlines. So too does the idea teams such as the Cleveland Cavaliers and Boston Celtics will gun for Chicago Bulls guard Jimmy Butler, according to ESPN.com's Marc Stein and CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill.
These fresh narratives can only hog the spotlight for so long, though. After all, this free-agent class boasts Chris Paul, Gordon Hayward and Stephen Curry, not to mention the possibility of someone like Kevin Durant.
And that doesn't even touch on incredible secondary free agents like George Hill, Kyle Lowry, Dion Waiters and Paul Millsap, to name a few.
Below, let's take a look at details surrounding a few of the market's biggest names.
      
Stephen Curry

It'd be remiss to write a free-agency column and not talk about Curry.
Let's get this out of the way in a hurry—Curry isn't leaving the Golden State Warriors.
Rest assured most NBA front offices already believe this and won't waste their time on it. Curry is 29 years old headed toward a big max contract in the neighborhood of $200 million over five seasons. He's competing for titles each year alongside Durant and in a great locale.
So no, he doesn't want to stop a run at a dynasty now. He's even responded well to the idea of a pay cut if it means keeping the team together, according to Anthony Slater of the Mercury News:
"As we go into talks and this whole process—which is obviously new for me—I will approach it as getting the most as I can as an individual, as a player, something I've been working for a very long time. In the context of keeping the team together, if there are decisions that need to be made, we’ll talk about it for sure."
Maybe the Warriors need Curry to take a cut, maybe not. Either way, he'll stick with the budding dynasty.
Prediction: Curry re-signs with the Warriors
        
Chris Paul

The knee-jerk reaction concerning Paul's trip to market (essentially a guarantee on an early-termination option) is likely quite similar to Curry's situation—there's zero chance he leaves the Los Angeles Clippers, right?
Maybe.
One has to wonder what the 32-year-old Paul thinks about another long-term commitment to the Clippers after years of struggling and misfortune when it matters most.
And as the old saying somewhat goes, where there is smoke, there just might be fire. According to Broderick Turner of the Los Angeles Times, who spoke with a league executive, Paul will speak with the Houston Rockets and Denver Nuggets.
Rumblings linking the star point guard to the San Antonio Spurs aren't exactly new either, as Alex Kennedy of HoopsHype recently noted:
Executives and players around the NBA absolutely believe Chris Paul to the Spurs is a realistic possibility. Free agency starts in 19 days.
The Clippers have every right to be nervous. Houston wouldn't mind adding Paul despite James Harden just playing the best ball of his career at the 1. The Denver Nuggets are another rising team in the Western Conference thanks to Nikola Jokic.
Then there's San Antonio. Paul just seems like a perfect fit for the culture there, and his executing Gregg Popovich's system next to Kawhi Leonard sounds unfair.
At the end of the day, though, Paul doesn't figure to sacrifice the five-year deal worth somewhere around $200 million the Clippers can offer him. The grass might be greener elsewhere, but that's before teams clear roster space and cash to fit him into the picture.
Prediction: Paul re-signs with the Clippers
        
Kyle Lowry 

Does Lowry flee the Toronto Raptors and Eastern Conference?
Heading to the Western Conference doesn't seem like the best idea for the 31-year-old point guard, but it's not like his Raptors stood a legitimate threat to take down LeBron anyway.
Out West, teams like the upcoming Utah Jazz and New Orleans Pelicans need help at the 1, as do the Spurs.
This point thirst seems to reinforce an idea floated by Stein recently:
Late-season rumbles that Kyle Lowry will give legit thought to a free-agent switch to the West are sure to rise in volume after this series
He doesn't necessarily need to leave the conference either. Rumors gathered by Keith Pompey of the Philadelphia Inquirer suggested a mutual interest between the 76ers and the Philly native, a door likely shut after the aforementioned trade moved the team up in a position to grab Markelle Fultz. Other teams such as the New York Knicks are on the hunt for help.
Still, this is another case of a player not necessarily being able to find a better situation. If Lowry wants to get paid and keep competing, sticking with the Raptors might be his best bet.
It's clear, too, the Raptors will put on a full-court press to do so. The first salvo was a meeting at the NBA Finals with Lowry, DeMar DeRozan and head coach Dwane Casey, per Chris Haynes of ESPN.com.
Fans can expect a similar approach throughout the summer. If the 76ers hadn't traded up, this would be a different discussion.
Prediction: Lowry re-signs with the Raptors
         
Gordon Hayward

A few years back, suggesting Hayward would be the headline act of free agency over names such as Curry, Paul and others would get somebody laughed out of a building.
Not so much now.
Hayward has emerged as one of the league's best forwards coming off a season in which he averaged 21.9 points on 47.1 percent shooting from the floor and 39.8 percent from deep.
All of 27 years old, Hayward offers even more upside to current contenders and rebuilders alike. The natural consensus seems to be Hayward going to the Boston Celtics, where he'd be a natural fit at forward for a team needing an explosive complement to Isaiah Thomas.
But a team like the Miami Heat might want to swoop in as well, as Stein noted:
Free Agency Scuttle: Volume is rising on the whispers that the team worrying Utah in Gordon Hayward's free agency is Miami as much as Boston
This only gets worse for the Jazz—they're unable to offer him the giant max that others in this article will receive if they stick with current teams because he didn't make an All-NBA team. We can argue the merits of such a silly honor deciding the fates of entire franchises at a different time, but it paints a bleak picture for the Jazz.
Hayward did some great things alongside Hill and Rudy Gobert in Utah despite the depth of the conference. But now he has a shot at playing with college head coach Brad Stevens in Boston or hitting the beach in Miami.
The latter has the locale and prestige Hayward might covet. Miami is already heading in the right direction while rebuilding around Hassan Whiteside; plus, Pat Riley is a borderline madman of a basketball mind who can construct contenders in a hurry. Money being equal, Hayward might choose the easier conference and great locale while crossing his fingers that LeBron can only remain in power so much longer.
Prediction: Hayward signs with the Heat
         
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

Dirk Nowitzki told B/R Mag that few opponents talk to him throughout a game. And while he may also take time to warm up to some teammates, he is one of the game's most affable players. We asked some of his teammates for their favorite Dirk moments and memories. Here are the stories they offered:

Nick Van Exel: He just always used to sing. You were checking into hotels and you see your red light's beeping and you think you got a message from somebody. Next thing you know, you pick it up and check the messages, it's his dumb ass singing on your message with his guitar, some crazy stuff, but that was just him. He was just lighthearted, man. Liked to have fun, man, and treated everybody the same.
Jerry Stackhouse: All those patented Dirk moves, step back, I still say that's my move that he stole from me on my post-up. Everybody is like, "Oh, that's the Dirk move." That's my post-up move that I was killing him with at that time. … The universe thinks it's the Dirk move, but go back to '04 or '05 and watch my post-ups and see what they look like. See that he just adds a little fade to it.

Jason Kidd: He's a prankster, likes to play a lot of jokes. He thinks he's a rapper. He's a lot of fun. He's one of my favorite teammates.
Justin Anderson: My rookie year, I didn't do anything for All-Star break. He was like, "You need to take a break and everything." He was going to Mexico. Me and my girl had no clue where we wanted to go. So we finally decided, "Yeah let's go to Mexico. Because he was going, he was like, "Yeah, you can just ride with me." It was just the most generous thing that somebody could ever do. He didn't have to do that. He had his family—his wife and kids and stuff. It was just really nice of him and we were really appreciative.
That just shows his character. He's the most humble dude. He has every right to be a certain way, but he's so humble, it's ridiculous. It's so many things to talk about. I don't have enough time to sit and ponder and tell you which one is the best one. He's a funny dude. He's a people's person, man. You wouldn't expect it from someone who's accomplished as much as he has. You would think they would be so standoffish, but he's not like that at all.

Brandon Bass: I remember when he started shooting the one-leg fadeaway shot. At one point, he wasn't touching the net. He was making it where he f--kin', no rim at all, barely hitting net. I looked at J.J. Barea one game on the bench like, "Damn, he's not going to even touch the net tonight?" After he made shots, sometimes he made some weird poses that I thought were funny. There's a picture on Google where I'm doing something where I'm kind of holding my shirt, throwing up a three sign. That's something he used to do and that was kind of me mocking him back in practice. 
Kris Humphries: He's funny because when you're in practice with him, you may think that he's not paying attention or something like that, but he knows exactly what's going on all the time. He's one of those guys.

David Lee: I'd been in the league for the better part of a decade and I was like, "This guy has not said two words to anybody." And then I get there and the guy could not have had a better personality. He just really shuts himself off to everybody else's team, but he is freaking hilarious and outgoing. You're talking about a Hall of Fame player, a guy who is arguably one of the best ever.
I get there and ... we're playing Golden State. Coach [Rick Carlisle] said we were going to switch all pick-and-rolls, 1 through 5, and be up on Steph Curry when he comes off. Well, Dirk raises his hand and says, "Are you out of your mind? You think I'm switching on to Steph Curry? No way, I'm going to hedge and get out of the way. There is no way in hell you're putting me in an iso against him."
I just thought, how amazing that is for a guy like Dirk, who has accomplished what he had, to be that kind of self-aware that that's not his strong suit anymore. And everybody in the locker room just started laughing. And Carlisle just looks at him and says, "Oh, OK, you can just hedge then." He actually did switch onto Steph a couple times during the game and did a great job, but Dirk just having a complete lack of ego like that was just something that was really special to me.

Zaza Pachulia: All day, every day, he'd joke. Especially the older he got, his joking skills got better because obviously he can't run and he can't jump anymore on the court. That's why he started talking more. You know, a lot of times, he's complaining about everything. Because his athletic ability is not there now, his complaining ability kicked in.
Last year, there was a moment where after the whistle, he tried to dunk the ball. He hung on the rim. It was so funny. Nobody asked him to jump and try to dunk. [The] official only blew the whistle, so all he had to do was toss the ball back to the official. Suddenly, in the middle of the game, he decides to jump high and dunk the ball. [He missed.] Obviously, it was caught on the cameras. He always has an answer, a response to it. Like, "Yo, that rim was 12 feet high." He tried to make himself look good.
Mike Monroe and Josh Martin contributed to this report.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Looking for the best NBA coverage around? Bleacher Report is the go-to destination. B/R's NBA coverage delivers must-see hardwood analysis on a daily basis. You've never been so ready for some basketball.

The Minnesota Timberwolves announced Tuesday that players will begin wearing Fitbit patches on their jerseys during the 2017-18 season.            
The T'Wolves and Fitbit reached a three-year deal that will also see Fitbit become the official wearable and official sleep tracker of the organization.
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver called jersey ads "inevitable" in 2014 and discussed their benefits, per Michael McCarthy of Ad Age:
"It just creates that much more of an opportunity for our marketing partners to get that much closer to our fans and to our players. It gives us an opportunity just to have deeper integration when it comes to those forms of sponsorship. ... Increasingly as we see Champions League and English Premier League televised in the U.S., I think it's going to become more acceptable and more commonplace for our fans as well."
The Timberwolves will join a growing list of teams set to wear ads on their jerseys in 2017-18 and beyond.
According to ESPN.com's Paul Lukas, among the teams that have already announced partnerships are the Philadelphia 76ers with StubHub, the Sacramento Kings with Blue Diamond Almonds, the Boston Celtics with General Electric, the Brooklyn Nets with Infor and the Utah Jazz with Qualtrics.

Paul George hasn't even left the Indiana Pacers yet, but one Indianapolis-based T-shirt and apparel store didn't need more than a Wojbomb to decide that the superstar was all but gone.
Following a report from Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical that George is planning on becoming a free agent after the 2017-18 season, with an inclination to join the Los Angeles Lakers—The Shop in Indianapolis decided to slash the price of a George shirt and snapback from $25 to, well, nothing.
"We knew that we probably weren't going to sell those T-shirts anymore now that he's leaving the team," said Hillary Brown, the manager of The Shop. "We just wanted to give it away. It's something that we've done in the past as well. If we have a T-shirt that we know isn't going to sell, we just give it away." 
A photo posted by The Shop (@theshopindy)
Some customers didn't believe the offer from the store.
"Like these would really be free," one consumer commented on the post. But the giveaway was real, both online and in the store. On the website, customers would only need to pay the $5 shipping fee. At the store, they could grab a hat hanging on a hook outside the front door, or a shirt folded up on the counter, without a dime dropped.
"In store, they were completely, 100 percent free," Brown said. "We didn't have that many left to begin with. Once we put them out for free, they went very fast, before the afternoon was over."

The rumors of George's desire to play in Los Angeles have been swirling throughout the year, and according to ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin, the Pacers have reached out to the Cleveland Cavaliers to gauge interest in a trade. George, a four-time All-Star, averaged 23.7 points, 6.6 rebounds, 3.3 assists and 1.6 steals this season.
Brown says that if another big athlete were to leave Indianapolis again, the store would consider making a similar decision. The Shop currently has an Andrew Luck shirt, so for those hoping to get any consolation should the Colts franchise quarterback leave town, you might be able to swing yourself a free hat or shirt. 
"We do have some specific T-shirts and it depends on who it is and what the T-shirt is and how many we have left. We'll take it situation by situation, I believe," Brown said. "The decision to make the shirts free was made by the owner. He knew where this Paul George situation was going, and he just thought this was the thing to do."

It happens every year.
The NBA Finals end, a champion is crowned and the hoops community expects to catch its breath. It's a fool's errand, though, as the real roller-coaster ride is just reaching the apex. While still young, this offseason is no different.
Paul George plans to leave the Indiana Pacers next summer, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, which all but forces the team to deal him, potentially by (or during) this Thursday's draft.
The Los Angeles Lakers and Cleveland Cavaliers appear to be leading the charge. Both teams are reportedly in the market for additional picks, as well.
     
Paul George

According to Woj's sources, Indy is asking for "a substantial package of talent and draft picks for George." He also wrote that the four-time All-Star told the Pacers he's leaning toward signing with the Lakers next summer.
It's a weird situation for L.A., a star-hungry team that could catapult itself back into playoff contention with a veteran stud like George.
If he plans to sign anyway, though, why mortgage future assets? Think back to Carmelo Anthony's saga with the Denver Nuggets in 2011; he might've signed with the Knicks that summer, but to ensure he donned blue and orange, New York made a deal at the deadline, weakening the team Melo could've joined.

Cleveland's involvement complicates things for the Lakers. Playing alongside LeBron James for a season could do wonders for convincing George to stick around long-term and challenge the Golden State Warriors.
According to Fox Sports insider Sam Amico, the Cavaliers aren't bluffing:
#Cavs-#Pacers talk about Paul George is legit. This is more than a passing type of discussion, league sources tell AmicoHoops.
#Cavs and #Pacers talks have a feel of multiple players being involved. Indy wants a deal done before Thursday's draft. #NBA
Los Angeles is watching. According to The Ringer's Kevin O'Connor, Magic Johnson will swoop in if the Cavaliers get close to landing George:
Two NBA sources expect Lakers to parachute into Paul George talks if the Cavs are closing in on a deal. Unclear if #2 would be on the table.
That would be a tough call, as acquiring George would likely cost Los Angeles its No. 2 overall pick. ESPN.com's Chad Ford wrote on Monday that the Pacers "would have serious interest" if a shot at Lonzo Ball, or another prospect, was in play.

O'Connor also alluded to some interest from the Boston Celtics, who traded down from the No. 1 spot to No. 3 while acquiring two additional first-rounders from the Philadelphia 76ers:
If we're connecting the dots, you might also be asking why the Celtics moved so quickly to complete a deal with Philadelphia ... Hmm. s://t.co/mLTiDzMYlI
The buzz surrounding George is a circus, as is often the case when a top-10 player hits the market. ESPN's Zach Lowe tweeted on Sunday that Indy wants a deal done quickly:
Sense from teams talking to IND is that Pacers intend to move fast on a PG deal.
Be sure to keep a keen eye out the closer we get to this Thursday’s draft.
     
Cavs, Lakers seeking picks

In addition to being in the mix for George, the Lakers and Cavs are also seeking added stock in the 2017 draft.
Per ESPN's Ramona Shelburne, the Lakers have been trying to add another first-round pick for Thursday. They have "engaged at least two teams in the lottery, sources said, as they search for players to improve their outside shooting and perimeter defense."
It should be noted that L.A. holds the No. 28 overall selection thanks to its midseason deal with the Houston Rockets for shooting guard Lou Williams. DraftExpress pegs Los Angeles with Syracuse sophomore Tyler Lydon with the pick.

The Cavaliers are without a single pick in this year's draft—see RealGM's future pick chart if you want to see just how bare the cupboard is—but they're trying to find a way in, according to ESPN's Brian Windhorst:
Windy says there is a "reasonable" percentage chance that the Cavs get back into the draft on Thursday night...
It's not uncommon for teams to buy their way into the second round. Last year, the Cavs took Kay Felder at No. 54 after purchasing the pick from the Atlanta Hawks for $2.4 million, per Cleveland.com's Chris Fedor.
With Cleveland all but devoid of draft stock in the years to come, it seems almost necessary to finagle a rookie, even near the back of the second round.

The Golden State Warriors will be giving head coach Steve Kerr time off during the offseason so he can pursue treatment options for the health issues that forced him to miss part of the team's 2016-17 playoff run.
According to the Associated Press (h/t Pro Basketball Talk), Warriors general manager Bob Myers said Monday the organization will allow Kerr to explore ways to alleviate pain created by a spinal-fluid leak from back surgery about two years ago:
"I think at the point we're at now, it's what makes you 5-10-15 percent better? And that's what he's going to pursue and explore with our blessing. The hope is he got back to the place he was prior to leaving in Portland, which is not where he wants to be but he can coach. There's a little bit of a misconception that stepping away would help him heal. And I tried to dispel that and you should ask him, because I think even he gets a little offended at the notion of, 'Just step away and go get better.' I said this before, this is where he feels the best, which may be counterintuitive to what people think. It's not that the job diminishes him in any way. Actually, the job, I would say, propels him."
After coaching the first two games of Golden State's first-round playoff series against the Portland Trail Blazers, Kerr took a leave of absence before returning for Game 2 of the NBA Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Mike Brown served as the interim coach while Kerr was out and led Golden State to an 11-0 record during that time.
The 51-year-old Kerr coached the final four games of the Finals and was on the sidelines when Golden State closed out its second championship in three years with a Game 5 triumph.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Can Klay Thompson, Golden State Warriors Close Out #ToasterEra Undefeated?
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
After heading to the beach in San Diego last week, Kerr said he feels as though his condition has improved:
"The good news is I did feel a lot better from where I was six weeks ago. I feel like I'm making some strides. I definitely want to gain some momentum here early in the summer and really kind of build on that momentum and be feeling a lot better hopefully soon."
Kerr's health has dogged him for much of the past two campaigns, as he missed 43 games during the 2015-16 regular season because of complications from his back surgery.
Now-Los Angeles Lakers head coach Luke Walton filled in for him then, and the Dubs went on to win an NBA-record 73 regular-season games.
Despite Kerr's continued health issues, he recently told ESPN's Zach Lowe on the Lowe Podcast that he is planning to coach "for a long time."

Apparently, the Philadelphia 76ers and Boston Celtics got out ahead of us and played their own game of "Keep or Trade" leading into the 2017 NBA draft.
Spoiler: They decided to trade.
That exchange, ticketing Markelle Fultz for the Sixers and sending the No. 3 pick (plus future assets) to Boston, could be the start of an active predraft slate. And by the time we get to draft night Thursday, the picks and future considerations could be flying around like mad.
It's tough to give up a top-end selection. That's how great teams are built.
At the same time, just as there's always money in the banana stand, there's always value later in the lottery.
Kawhi Leonard, Paul George, Klay Thompson—all recent examples of how picks well outside the top five can make major differences. Players such as those prove you can get your guy by moving out of prime position and trusting your scouting.
Who should dare to move down and collect a few extra goodies in the process? Who should climb the lottery ranks to snag a favorite target?
And who should sit on their hands and avoid transacting altogether?
Let's play.

In light of recent events, it'd be a little strange if the suggestion here were to keep the pick.
The Boston Celtics pulled the trigger on a deal to send their top overall selection to the Philadelphia 76ers. In return, the Celts get Philly's No. 3 pick and either the Los Angeles Lakers' first-rounder in 2018 (protected Nos. 2-5) or the more favorable 2019 first-rounder of the Sixers or Sacramento Kings.
We can conclude that Boston doesn't believe Markelle Fultz is a transcendent star, though we might also surmise the Celtics are adding more draft assets in anticipation of making a bigger trade for an established name.
We'll see.
If any part of Boston's decision to pass on Fultz and trade down has to do with believing Isaiah Thomas is the future at the point, this was a mistake. Thomas' 5'9" size means he won't age well, he cannot possibly play better than he did in 2016-17, and it'll cost max money to keep him as a free agent in 2018.
No team has moved the top pick before the draft since the Orlando Magic did it in 1993, so this is a big deal.
At the same time, Boston isn't like the rest of the clubs populating the high lottery. It's two months removed from the Eastern Conference Finals and will be a good bet to go that far again—even if it doesn't add a star via trade or free agency.
Normally, giving up the top selection (especially when all it nets is more picks), seems like a mistake. Because the Celtics are no ordinary lottery team, it's defensible in this case.
Verdict: Trade(d)

If you get past the SoCal ties, weeks of posturing (on both sides) and seeming fait accompli of Lonzo Ball's winding up with the Lakers, you might make it to the point where you realize the UCLA product's talent makes him a serious value at this draft slot.
That's not always something you get to say about a potential No. 2 overall pick, but ESPN's Kevin Pelton likes Ball to produce more wins above replacement than any other incoming rookie—Fultz included.
The father-who-shall-not-be-named-because-it-only-makes-him-stronger is an issue, and an annoyance. But Ball has the game to justify peripheral nonsense.
You can't watch him anticipate his teammates' movements, seemingly guide them into space and then set them up with telekinetic passes and not think of Jason Kidd.
Unless the Lakers think they can move down and still land Ball at, say, No. 4 in a trade with the Phoenix Suns, keeping this pick makes the most sense. Maybe Josh Jackson or Jonathan Isaac would be tempting here, particularly if the Lakers want to avoid the Ball circus. But with Paul George targeting a 2018 arrival, moving down to snag a forward loses some of its appeal for L.A.
Verdict: Keep

For the Celtics, the big predraft trade was justifiable.
Get past the shocking rarity of dealing the top overall pick, and you could rationalize it: GM Danny Ainge liked Jackson more than anyone else available. Boston wasn't going to give Fultz big minutes, and adding the point guard would have created a strange heir-apparent dynamic between him and Thomas.
So...you know...it was fine.
For the Sixers, though, the move was a no-doubt tape-measure shot off the plaza level. A 600-foot home run.
Maybe part of this is the pure joygasm of all those collected assets finally manifesting themselves in a difference-making move. Philadelphia stockpiled picks under Sam Hinkie, and it's almost viscerally gratifying to see them become something tangible.
Then again, perhaps it's the fit that makes this deal sing.
Fultz is a dynamic scorer at three levels who can run the pick-and-roll or spot up away from the ball. He's a score-first thinker, which makes him an ideal teammate for Ben Simmons, who always looks to facilitate.
The Simmons-Joel Embiid pick-and-roll or pick-and-pop was always going to be clunky because of Simmons' nonthreatening stroke. Now, the Sixers have a natural scoring guard to run the league's staple play with Embiid.
This is too much fun to suggest anything other than what actually happened.
Verdict: Trade(d)

We told the Lakers not to trade back in the draft in a deal with the Suns, so we're obviously going to suggest Phoenix goes for it.
Imagine Ball (taken by the Suns after trading up to No. 2) running an uptempo attack with Devin Booker, Marquese Chriss and Dragan Bender filling lanes. Granted, you'd have to be imagining the year 2019 or so for that picture to also include the Suns winning the game, but it's enticing all the same.
Everybody wants wings, and a Phoenix move up for a point guard runs counter to the three-and-D revolution. But the Suns could probably work the market with the suddenly expendable Eric Bledsoe to address that. Besides, Bledsoe doesn't fit the Suns' new ultra-young core in this hypothetical.
He's trade bait now.
Phoenix shouldn't pull the trigger here if it involves sacrificing a future lottery pick. But if all it takes is eating a bad contract (think Timofey Mozgov or Luol Deng) to climb two spots, it'd be worth it. And don't discount the Lakers' wanting to get off as much bad money as they can before George shows up. They'll need to pay him and whatever other stars his arrival attracts.
Verdict: Trade

The Kings must deliberate, pore over every detail no matter how irrelevant and consult all the best minds in their organization. Spiritual guidance from religious leaders would also be fine. If there are life coaches available to weigh in, even better.
But Sacramento must engage every possible resource. It must search deep within the organization's figurative heart for an answer.
And then, when there's consensus, when the correct decision crystalizes after interminable study and painstaking care, the Kings should do the exact opposite of whatever they determine is the best course.
It's the safest way to avoid mistakes.
Because if we know anything about the Kings under owner Vivek Ranadive, it's that they screw up draft picks and trades at a world-class level. They are the Golden State Warriors of doing things wrong.
That can change.
If they adopt this approach and apply it to every decision—not just whether to trade or keep their two lottery picks—just watch the Kings become a winner in no time.
Seriously, though, Kings: You've got two top-10 picks. Don't trade up. Take your two cracks at a franchise-changer and hope one pans out. If you're lucky, Jackson might even fall to this spot if the Celtics get frisky and snag Jayson Tatum at No. 3.
Verdict: The Opposite
Alternate Verdict: Keep

We've already seen one trade and suggested another, so it's hard to know who'll be here for the Orlando Magic.
Still, there's a good chance Tatum or Isaac will be available. It's tempting to just tell the Magic to take whichever of those two is on the board and move on. But what if the Denver Nuggets come calling with a package involving their 13th overall pick and a future selection?
That's what I'm doing if I'm Denver—hoping to snag Isaac to play with Nikola Jokic up front.
In that scenario, the Magic should punt this draft, take the 13th selection and target some additional future picks for their trouble.
This is a team without a cornerstone, one that botches transactions and draft picks on the regular. The Magic gave up Maurice Harkless for nothing, reached too high for Mario Hezonja (No. 5 overall), overpaid for a rental of Serge Ibaka, and on and on and on.
So why not get some extra bites at the apple in this draft and either next year's or the one in 2019?
This is a sneakily good season to tank. The Lakers and Nets don't have their own picks in 2018, so they're unlikely to bottom out. The Sixers are through with deliberate losing. So the Magic should accumulate assets, mail in 2017-18 and hope to snag the top spot next year.
New Magic GM John Hammond might be reluctant to give up on his first season with the team, and he's talking as if he's got someone he likes at No. 6.
Maybe Orlando believes in its new front office, but they should trade back and think two or three years down the road.
Verdict: Trade

Minnesota Timberwolves head coach Tom Thibodeau will never play rookies big minutes, so trading up to get another high-profile first-year player is probably a bad idea. Moving down might make sense if the Wolves aren't in love with anyone specific, but we're nearing a point in the draft where it feels like a dozen guys all occupy the same tier.
That could make it hard to find a trade partner willing to pay the premium it takes to climb a few spots.
So why not stand pat?
Minnesota has options at No. 7. It could snag a skilled forward such as Lauri Markkanen—or Isaac if he's still on the board. It could target Dennis Smith Jr. or De'Aaron Fox to back up (or play ahead of Kris Dunn) if there's a Ricky Rubio trade in the works.
Chances are Frank Ntilikina will be there, too, if the Wolves want to get international.
Point being: Minnesota has lots of good options and might not have much to choose from in the way of offers to swap downward.
Verdict: (KUBO) Keep unless bowled over

It was tempting to save the whole "do the opposite" schtick from the Kings section for the mostly hapless New York Knicks, but it wouldn't have been fair.
Say what you want about the Knicks, but don't make the mistake of knocking their draft record.
OK, fine. They've only made one pick since 2014, but that was Kristaps Porzingis at No. 4 in 2015. If you think about it, New York is batting 1.000 over the last two seasons.
Anyway, the Knicks are dialing in on French 18-year-old Frank Ntilikina as their point guard of the future, per the New York Daily News' Stefan Bondy. If he's there, he's a solid pick. Though raw, possessed of a shaky handle and needing serious growth as a passer, Ntilikina is big, athletic and projects as a fantastic defender.
In case you haven't been paying attention, New York is in need of someone who'll get a stop once in a while.
As we'll cover momentarily, the Dallas Mavericks want Ntilikina, too.
But unless the Mavs are ready to surrender at least a future first-rounder to move up (which they probably aren't for a one-spot jump), the Knicks should hang on to this one.
Verdict: Keep

The Dallas Mavericks have Seth Curry as a stopgap point guard on the cheap, and they could go after Rubio or Jrue Holiday if they're committed to competing this season. They don't need to fall all over themselves in pursuit of Ntilikina.
But it seems as though they've got their eye on him, according to ESPN's Chad Ford, who reports Vincent Collet, Ntilikina's coach at Strasbourg, will be running the show for Dallas' Orlando Summer League Team.
How convenient...
As long as Dirk Nowitzki's around, the Mavericks will probably keep trying to win games. At the same time, Nowitzki just turned 39, so Dallas knows this year-to-year tinkering won't last forever. If Ntilikina is Dallas' guy, and if it doesn't cost too much in the way of future assets to move up one spot, a deal with the Knicks makes sense.
It might even work to send the ninth pick and Curry to New York for No. 8—especially if Dallas is going to seek out a starter to play ahead of Ntilikina on the free-agent market anyway.
Go for it, Mavs. If you're trading with the Knicks, history says you've got a good shot at winning the deal.
Verdict: Trade (But expect New York to pass)

We already hit the Kings at No. 5, encouraging them not to trust their instincts.
But now we've got them again, and instead of taking potshots, let's offer a more measured reason for them to keep both of their top-10 selections.
Not only will there be quality options available at both spots, and not only do the Kings need as many lottery tickets in the draft as possible (free agency has never been Sacramento's best path forward), but there's also a philosophical motivation. A question, actually.
How do they want to be viewed?
Trading on draft day would feel like such an on-brand Kings move. It would be a little reckless and probably ill-advised. So as Sacramento bolsters its front office and strives to gain respect around the league, holding steady is the best way to project an image of capability.
According to Ailene Voisin of the Sacramento Bee, even now, the Kings are on the right track:
"Dave Joerger's coaching staff is experienced, respected, present. The recent additions of analytics expert Luke Bornn and assistant GM Scott Perry provide a cohesiveness in the front office. And based on conversations with several scouts, general managers and former players, Perry already has restored some credibility to the organization's reputation."
That's good!
Keep it up. Hope Smith Jr. or Monk is available here, and snatch him.
Verdict: Keep

If North Carolina's Justin Jackson is on the board here, which he probably will be, is Charlotte Hornets owner Michael Jordan going to pick up the red phone that's on his desk (or golf cart dashboard) and green light Operation Tar Heel?
Jackson is a do-a-bit-of-everything guy with considerable polish and significantly improved three-point shooting. If the 6'8" wing's leap to 37 percent from deep as a junior is real, the Hornets could justify taking him regardless of collegiate affiliation.
Markkanen or Zach Collins could also be available, and the Hornets desperately need big men to back up Cody Zeller—whose shoulder injury last season basically turned Charlotte from a postseason contender into a lottery team.
What about Donovan Mitchell, though?
The Louisville guard looks a little like Avery Bradley in style and could fit perfectly alongside Kemba Walker because of his ability to guard either backcourt position. If he's ready to contribute immediately, maybe Charlotte could also get off Nicolas Batum's contract and save some cash.
Ultimately, the Hornets have their 10 highest-paid players from last year still under contract. They're gunning for a playoff spot because A) they won 48 games in 2015-16 and B) they staunchly refuse to rebuild.
So it's a good thing they've got several options who could contribute quickly.
Hang on to this one, Hornets.
Verdict: Keep

If the Hornets pass on Mitchell, he's a good fit for the Detroit Pistons, who might be in the market for a guard if restricted free agent Kentavious Caldwell-Pope signs an offer sheet too rich to match.
Mitchell has the defensive pedigree Stan Van Gundy likes, and he wowed at the combine, according to Rod Beard of the Detroit News: "He has outstanding physical and athletic qualities. At 6-foot-3, he has a 6-10 wingspan, as well as the top three-quarter-court sprint (3.01 seconds) and standing vertical leap (36.5) at the combine last month."
Otherwise, Detroit should look to trade down and add multiple young pieces to a payroll that will probably soon be clogged with $100 million deals for Andre Drummond and KCP.
If the Portland Trail Blazers wanted someone such as Markkanen or Collins and offered their 15th and 26th picks for Detroit's No. 12, that's a deal worth doing.
Who knows? Detroit might be able to grab Duke shooting guard Luke Kennard at No. 15 if he slips, and then get the guy it thought it was getting in Stanley Johnson by taking versatile SMU wing Semi Ojeleye at No. 26.
There are a million ifs involved here, but the overarching point is the Pistons need to freshen up their roster and add enough flexibility to potentially pivot away from some of their overpaid "cornerstones." Getting multiples picks is one way to do that.
Verdict: Trade (Unless Mitchell is there)

OG Anunoby is probably going to be available at this spot, which makes angling for a Denver Nuggets trade difficult.
Anunoby, a physical forward who showed the tools to defend four positions at Indiana, might have the best defensive potential in the draft. Denver was one of the league's worst defensive teams this past season, wasting an elite offense because it couldn't get enough stops for all that scoring to matter.
Last year's torn ACL is a concern, but Anunoby is the smart selection here, as he addresses a key need and has massive upside because of his fit as a modern multi-position defender.
But I also kind of want to see the Nuggets score some more.
If Isaac is around at No. 7, the Nugs should package Wilson Chandler and their pick to move up and snag the Seminole big man with the T-Wolves' selection. Isaac has the ability to defend nearly as well (if not quite as physically) as Anunoby, and he projects as a better floor-stretcher whose feel and offensive I.Q. would be tantalizing alongside Nikola Jokic.
If you're the Wolves, you've got to think hard about adding Chandler to play some stretch 4 alongside Karl-Anthony Towns, plus a solid pick.
Yeah, the Nuggets will need to institute a defensive culture at some point. But I'd rather see them win a bunch of 125-115 games for the next few years.
A trade up for Isaac could make that a reality.
Lean into offense, Denver. You know you want to.
Verdict: Trade

For the Miami Heat to continue their top-dollar free-agent pursuits, they need to pepper in some cheap, team-controlled assets to keep overall roster costs low.
So they shouldn't trade this pick for present help. If there's an opportunity to trade down, maybe that's reasonable. But then again, the Heat have been pretty good (and lucky) in spots like this.
Remember Justise Winslow's slide to No. 10 in 2015?
That's why praying Collins, Kennard or Jackson slips is the best course. Any of those three could fill a role, with Kennard being especially handy as a possible Dion Waiters replacement.
Waiters is a free agent, and while his rebirth in Miami makes it hard to root for a breakup, the calculated move for the Heat is letting someone else overpay and then backfilling Waiters' spot with a better shooter like Kennard. The Duke product could nicely space the floor around a Goran Dragic-Hassan Whiteside pick-and-roll.
Miami can still go out and woo free agents Gordon Hayward or Paul Millsap. In fact, it will. That's what the Heat do.
But it needs to keep (and nail) this pick, too.
Verdict: Keep
    
Follow Grant on Twitter and Facebook.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com.

Everybody wants a piece of Paul George.
George has informed the Indiana Pacers he'll leave preferably for the Los Angeles Lakers in free agency next summer, which has prompted them to shop him around the league as a one-season rental, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski. This opens the door for contenders who otherwise don't have the assets to trade for superstars while remaining competitive. 
Championship hopefuls can bank on their culture and proximity to the Golden State Warriors convincing George that early playoff exits with the Lakers are overrated.
Using NBA Math's FATS projections, which offer record forecasts based on a team's performance with and without a player, we can get a rough idea of how much better would every possible title-chaser be with George. 
We'll generate how many wins the most important player of every trade package was worth last season. From there, we'll weight their additions by how many minutes they averaged per game, so that higher-volume players have a larger effect on projections. After that, we'll subtract the resulting number from George's impact on the Pacers (plus-13.4 wins) and tack on the remaining victories to each squad's 2016-17 record.
These forecasts presume the rest of the core will remain intact. It's an imperfect model, but it gives us a general idea in uncertain times.
Proposed packages are the best these contenders can offer within reason. None of them will be mortgaging the farm for a player who can flee next July. Drill that into your head.
Finally, the most important player of every trade will be the first name that appears in each package. For tricky cases, we factor in contract length and cost, age, last year's performance and future potential. Draft picks will never be cited first, even if they are the primary prize, because we can't predict the career arc of a player who doesn't yet exist.
      
The Impossibly Long Long-Shot Suitors
Los Angeles Clippers

2016-17 Record: 51-31
Best Realistic Trade Package: Sign-and-Trade Blake Griffin for Paul George
Wins Added: 4.3
Projected Record: 56-26
Signing and trading Blake Griffin in a deal for George unlocks the best possible version of the Los Angeles Clippers and allows them to surround Chris Paul and DeAndre Jordan with three shooters at all times. And unlike other potential targets—cough, Carmelo Anthony, cough—they don't destroy their defense by rotating George between the 3 and 4. They improve it.
Don't hold your breath for this to go down, though. The Clippers plan on pursuing a similar scenario, according to the Sporting News' Sean Deveney, but they only enter the conversation if the Pacers keep George past the NBA draft and into free agency.
Even then, the Clippers are at a disadvantage. There is no financial incentive for Griffin in a sign-and-trade. He'll get the same four-year max that a half-dozen teams will offer him—admirers who won't be unloading their best player in the process.
     
San Antonio Spurs

2016-17 Record: 61-21
Best Realistic Trade Package: LaMarcus Aldridge, Kyle Anderson, Bryn Forbes and No. 29 pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 15.8
Projected Record: 77-5
And now: More proof that the San Antonio Spurs break everything.
LaMarcus Aldridge, according to FATS, actually hurt the Spurs' performance. This is neither a surprise nor entirely accurate. They barely skipped a beat during the regular season when Kawhi Leonard was on the sidelines. Their bench is too damn good. 
Still, George in a starting five alongside Leonard and Danny Green has the makings of a 70-win team. The three of them are interchangeable from positions 2 through 4, and San Antonio just rattled off 61 wins with one of its least talented cores in recent memory.
Get a leap from Dejounte Murray or Davis Bertans, and this squad solidifies itself as the Warriors' foremost Western Conference threat. The returns of Patty Mills and Jonathon Simmons would make them that much scarier.
Again: The Spurs broke this projection. They aren't winning 77 games without a Kawhi clone. 
Granted, this deal is almost out of the question. San Antonio seldom makes blockbuster trades, and Indiana has to be in love with an Aldridge-Myles Turner frontcourt to pick up the phone. And even if the Pacers are sold, the Spurs have eyes for free agent Chris Paul, according to ESPN.com's Marc Stein. They'll want to see how that mutual interest pans out before investing present-day assets into a confirmed flight risk.
      
Washington Wizards

2016-17 Record: 49-33
Best Realistic Trade Package: Markieff Morris, Kelly Oubre Jr., Jason Smith and 2019 lottery-protected first-round pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 9.0
Projected Record: 58-24
Consolidating assets into another star isn't at the top of the Washington Wizards' offseason to-do list. They need second-string pupils, and trading for George only eats into their depth.
At the same time, it's Paul freaking George. If you can meet Indiana's asking price without taking a stick of dynamite to your infrastructure, you at least think about doing it. And, well, Washington is trying to join the trading-block fray, according to NBA.com's David Aldridge.
The Pacers, as Aldridge said, are looking for a starter and two first-rounders. They aren't getting that outright—not when George has a basketball crush on the Lakers. But the Wizards can almost get there without touching Bradley Beal, Otto Porter Jr. or John Wall.
Markieff Morris is a bona fide starter with two years left on a phenomenal contract. He can absorb most of George's defensive responsibilities and soak up many of his playmaking responsibilities. Kelly Oubre Jr. is a first-round prospect with two seasons left on his rookie scale and a penchant for scrappy defensive sets. If the Wizards are confident enough in their ability to re-sign George that they'll include a protected first in 2019, even better for the Pacers.
Washington still won't have the depth to combat Golden State, but a Wall-Beal-George-Porter-Marcin Gortat starting five is about as good as it gets in the Eastern Conference. Plus, ring-chasing vets suddenly put the Wizards on their list of preferred landing spots if this blockbuster goes down.
Payroll schmayhole. Resulting roster costs shouldn't be an issue for a Washington squad that can wear "Who even are the Cavs?" warm-ups with a straight face.
      
The Maybe, Just Maybe Suitors
Oklahoma City Thunder

2016-17 Record: 47-35
Best Realistic Trade Package: Victor Oladipo, Enes Kanter and No. 21 pick (actual player) for Paul George, Monta Ellis and Al Jefferson
Wins Added: 2.3
Projected Record: 50-32
If the Oklahoma City Thunder are confident Russell Westbrook is sticking around and believe he'll do his damnedest to accommodate George, they can offer one helluva package once Victor Oladipo's new salary kicks in after June 30 ($21 million).
Oladipo, 25, attended Indiana University, so this is a quasi-reunion. And he's locked up through 2020-21. The Pacers have to like the sound of that. Equally important: They get out from under the Monta Ellis and Al Jefferson contracts by taking on the final two years of Enes Kanter's deal.
Bringing in George when he's on the verge of free agency isn't the Thunder's style. But the risk is minimal relative to the stakes. They'll be facing the luxury tax if they re-sign Andre Roberson (restricted), but that was true before. If by some twist of cruel fate both George and Westbrook leave as free agents in 2018, the Thunder can at least push forward without footing the bill for an overpaid Oladipo.
Next season's outlook would be superb if nothing else. A Westbrook-Roberson-George-Domantas Sabonis-Steven Adams starting five would rank among the best in the Western Conference. The Thunder will have to sign a backup playmaker on the cheap, but even with depth concerns, 50 wins feels like a pessimistic projection.
     
Toronto Raptors

2016-17 Record: 51-31
Best Realistic Trade Package: Norman Powell, DeMarre Carroll and No. 23 pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 15.2
Projected Record: 67-15
Losing Kyle Lowry for 21 games out of the All-Star break skews the Toronto Raptors' projections. They might be 15 wins better with George, but only because, at full strength, they were better than their final record.
Adding George would nevertheless be a boon for their Eastern Conference stock—provided Lowry returns. Multiple league sources told the Toronto Star's Bruce Arthur the point guard had "zero interest" in returning to Toronto as of mid-May. Lowry has since clapped back, suggesting this isn't a huge issue:
I dont do this ever but :
Don't believe what you hear !! Especially if it didn't come from me, and that bs FOR SURE didn't come from me..GN
Giving up Norman Powell stings, but George more than makes up for his and DeMarre Carroll's departures. Besides, the Raptors can still re-sign one or both of Patrick Patterson and P.J. Tucker if they're not afraid of a miles-long luxury-tax bill.
Though there will be an offensive learning curve, George slides into the Raptors offense with relative ease. More than one-third of his shot attempts came off the catch last season. He'll need to up his number of assisted buckets, but Toronto wouldn't be asking him to reinvent his whole game by playing alongside Lowry and DeMar DeRozan. Lowry, in particular, makes the transition a cinch, with his own willingness to function away from the action.
There's no one way for the Raptors to erase the gap separating them from the Cavaliers and Warriors. But George is the exact type of player they need if they're going to try—a combo forward who blends the best attributes of Carroll, Powell and Tucker.
     
The Watch Your Back, Other Suitors Suitors 
Boston Celtics

2016-17 Record: 53-29
Best Realistic Trade Package: Terry Rozier, No. 37 pick, 2018 first-round pick (via Lakers, protected Nos. 2 through 5) or 2019 first-round pick (more favorable of Sacramento Kings or Philadelphia 76ers, top-pick protected) for Paul George
Wins Added: 16.3
Projected Record: 70-12 
The Boston Celtics aren't interested in renting George, according to Basketball Insiders' Steve Kyler, but you can bet they're lurking. They're always lurking.
Picking up George for a fraction of his market value would be a Danny Ainge special. And Boston's team president will have the opportunity to do just that if the Cavaliers and Lakers bow out of these sweepstakes. 
Carving out enough cap space to sign Gordon Hayward will be difficult if the Celtics land George before free agency, but it's not impossible—just really, really, ridiculously expensive, per 98.5 The Sports Hub's Brian Robb:
Math now can work for a C's George trade and Hayward signing. Can't overlook how big of a luxury tax bill would be in 2018+ w/ IT + Horford.
Forecasting 70 wins with George feels steep regardless of whether he's accompanied by Hayward. It'll be less. But 65 victories will be in play if the Celtics are starting George, Avery Bradley, Jae Crowder, Al Horford and Isaiah Thomas, with Jaylen Brown, Marcus Smart, the No. 3 pick and possibly restricted free agent Kelly Olynyk coming off the bench.
Head coach Brad Stevens could spit out 50-plus wins and the East's top seed with much less.
In fact, he already has.
     
Cleveland Cavaliers

2016-17 Record: 51-31
Best Realistic Trade Package: Kevin Love for Paul George
Wins Added: 12.9
Projected Record: 64-18
Can Cleveland make a run at George when it doesn't have a general manager?
Sources told ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst the Cavaliers are parting ways with incumbent architect David Griffin. Owner Dan Gilbert confirmed the move and has already tabbed Chauncey Billups as a potential replacement, according to Wojnarowski. But rival teams expect Indiana to act fast, per ESPN.com's Zach Lowe. Cleveland doesn't have a lot of time to get it together.
On the bright side, sources confirmed to ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin that the Pacers reached out to the Cavaliers. This is a fairly big deal. They know the Cavaliers' only trade chip is Kevin Love or, much less likely, Kyrie Irving. They wouldn't engage if they weren't interested in him or prepared to suss out a third team to enhance the structure of a deal.
George is the ideal addition for a Cavaliers faction obsessed with challenging the Warriors. They need defensively interchangeable wings who stroke three-pointers and make plays off the bounce. George has enough catch-and-shoot experience to thrive next to James and, along with the four-time MVP, would give the Cavaliers a second all-world pest.
Does George alone render them title favorites? Not at all. But the outcome of Cavs-Warriors, Part IV, feels a lot less inevitable if he and James are on the same side.
     
Houston Rockets

2016-17 Record: 55-27
Best Realistic Trade Package: Eric Gordon, Trevor Ariza, Sam Dekker and 2019 lottery-protected first-round pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 9.8
Projected Record: 65-17
"We are used to long odds," Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey told Lowe. "If Golden State makes the odds longer, we might up our risk profile and get even more aggressive. We have something up our sleeve."
Was Morey referencing Chris Paul, who is reportedly scheduled to meet with the Rockets at the start of free agency, according to the Los Angeles Times' Broderick Turner? Or did he know in advance that the Pacers would consider his best offer if George relayed his intent to bolt next summer?
Props to Morey if it's the latter. Paul is the better player, but George is the better fit. He'll have an easier time playing off the ball-dominating James Harden, and head coach Mike D'Antoni can work magic starting those two with Ryan Anderson, Patrick Beverley and Clint Capela.
And when the Rockets go hypersmall, forget about it. Deploying Anderson, Beverley, George, Harden and Lou Williams yields enough two-way firepower to make even the Warriors' "Death Lineup" (slightly) nervous.
      
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Salary information via Basketball Insiders and RealGM.

Everybody wants a piece of Paul George.
George has informed the Indiana Pacers he'll leave preferably for the Los Angeles Lakers in free agency next summer, which has prompted them to shop him around the league as a one-season rental, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski. This opens the door for contenders who otherwise don't have the assets to trade for superstars while remaining competitive. 
Championship hopefuls can bank on their culture and proximity to the Golden State Warriors convincing George that early playoff exits with the Lakers are overrated.
Using NBA Math's FATS projections, which offer record forecasts based on a team's performance with and without a player, we can get a rough idea of how much better would every possible title-chaser be with George. 
We'll generate how many wins the most important player of every trade package was worth last season. From there, we'll weight their additions by how many minutes they averaged per game, so that higher-volume players have a larger effect on projections. After that, we'll subtract the resulting number from George's impact on the Pacers (plus-13.4 wins) and tack on the remaining victories to each squad's 2016-17 record.
These forecasts presume the rest of the core will remain intact. It's an imperfect model, but it gives us a general idea in uncertain times.
Proposed packages are the best these contenders can offer within reason. None of them will be mortgaging the farm for a player who can flee next July. Drill that into your head.
Finally, the most important player of every trade will be the first name that appears in each package. For tricky cases, we factor in contract length and cost, age, last year's performance and future potential. Draft picks will never be cited first, even if they are the primary prize, because we can't predict the career arc of a player who doesn't yet exist.
      
The Impossibly Long Long-Shot Suitors
Los Angeles Clippers

2016-17 Record: 51-31
Best Realistic Trade Package: Sign-and-Trade Blake Griffin for Paul George
Wins Added: 4.3
Projected Record: 56-26
Signing and trading Blake Griffin in a deal for George unlocks the best possible version of the Los Angeles Clippers and allows them to surround Chris Paul and DeAndre Jordan with three shooters at all times. And unlike other potential targets—cough, Carmelo Anthony, cough—they don't destroy their defense by rotating George between the 3 and 4. They improve it.
Don't hold your breath for this to go down, though. The Clippers plan on pursuing a similar scenario, according to the Sporting News' Sean Deveney, but they only enter the conversation if the Pacers keep George past the NBA draft and into free agency.
Even then, the Clippers are at a disadvantage. There is no financial incentive for Griffin in a sign-and-trade. He'll get the same four-year max that a half-dozen teams will offer him—admirers who won't be unloading their best player in the process.
     
San Antonio Spurs

2016-17 Record: 61-21
Best Realistic Trade Package: LaMarcus Aldridge, Kyle Anderson, Bryn Forbes and No. 29 pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 15.8
Projected Record: 77-5
And now: More proof that the San Antonio Spurs break everything.
LaMarcus Aldridge, according to FATS, actually hurt the Spurs' performance. This is neither a surprise nor entirely accurate. They barely skipped a beat during the regular season when Kawhi Leonard was on the sidelines. Their bench is too damn good. 
Still, George in a starting five alongside Leonard and Danny Green has the makings of a 70-win team. The three of them are interchangeable from positions 2 through 4, and San Antonio just rattled off 61 wins with one of its least talented cores in recent memory.
Get a leap from Dejounte Murray or Davis Bertans, and this squad solidifies itself as the Warriors' foremost Western Conference threat. The returns of Patty Mills and Jonathon Simmons would make them that much scarier.
Again: The Spurs broke this projection. They aren't winning 77 games without a Kawhi clone. 
Granted, this deal is almost out of the question. San Antonio seldom makes blockbuster trades, and Indiana has to be in love with an Aldridge-Myles Turner frontcourt to pick up the phone. And even if the Pacers are sold, the Spurs have eyes for free agent Chris Paul, according to ESPN.com's Marc Stein. They'll want to see how that mutual interest pans out before investing present-day assets into a confirmed flight risk.
      
Washington Wizards

2016-17 Record: 49-33
Best Realistic Trade Package: Markieff Morris, Kelly Oubre Jr., Jason Smith and 2019 lottery-protected first-round pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 9.0
Projected Record: 58-24
Consolidating assets into another star isn't at the top of the Washington Wizards' offseason to-do list. They need second-string pupils, and trading for George only eats into their depth.
At the same time, it's Paul freaking George. If you can meet Indiana's asking price without taking a stick of dynamite to your infrastructure, you at least think about doing it. And, well, Washington is trying to join the trading-block fray, according to NBA.com's David Aldridge.
The Pacers, as Aldridge said, are looking for a starter and two first-rounders. They aren't getting that outright—not when George has a basketball crush on the Lakers. But the Wizards can almost get there without touching Bradley Beal, Otto Porter Jr. or John Wall.
Markieff Morris is a bona fide starter with two years left on a phenomenal contract. He can absorb most of George's defensive responsibilities and soak up many of his playmaking responsibilities. Kelly Oubre Jr. is a first-round prospect with two seasons left on his rookie scale and a penchant for scrappy defensive sets. If the Wizards are confident enough in their ability to re-sign George that they'll include a protected first in 2019, even better for the Pacers.
Washington still won't have the depth to combat Golden State, but a Wall-Beal-George-Porter-Marcin Gortat starting five is about as good as it gets in the Eastern Conference. Plus, ring-chasing vets suddenly put the Wizards on their list of preferred landing spots if this blockbuster goes down.
Payroll schmayhole. Resulting roster costs shouldn't be an issue for a Washington squad that can wear "Who even are the Cavs?" warm-ups with a straight face.
      
The Maybe, Just Maybe Suitors
Oklahoma City Thunder

2016-17 Record: 47-35
Best Realistic Trade Package: Victor Oladipo, Enes Kanter and No. 21 pick (actual player) for Paul George, Monta Ellis and Al Jefferson
Wins Added: 2.3
Projected Record: 50-32
If the Oklahoma City Thunder are confident Russell Westbrook is sticking around and believe he'll do his damnedest to accommodate George, they can offer one helluva package once Victor Oladipo's new salary kicks in after June 30 ($21 million).
Oladipo, 25, attended Indiana University, so this is a quasi-reunion. And he's locked up through 2020-21. The Pacers have to like the sound of that. Equally important: They get out from under the Monta Ellis and Al Jefferson contracts by taking on the final two years of Enes Kanter's deal.
Bringing in George when he's on the verge of free agency isn't the Thunder's style. But the risk is minimal relative to the stakes. They'll be facing the luxury tax if they re-sign Andre Roberson (restricted), but that was true before. If by some twist of cruel fate both George and Westbrook leave as free agents in 2018, the Thunder can at least push forward without footing the bill for an overpaid Oladipo.
Next season's outlook would be superb if nothing else. A Westbrook-Roberson-George-Domantas Sabonis-Steven Adams starting five would rank among the best in the Western Conference. The Thunder will have to sign a backup playmaker on the cheap, but even with depth concerns, 50 wins feels like a pessimistic projection.
     
Toronto Raptors

2016-17 Record: 51-31
Best Realistic Trade Package: Norman Powell, DeMarre Carroll and No. 23 pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 15.2
Projected Record: 67-15
Losing Kyle Lowry for 21 games out of the All-Star break skews the Toronto Raptors' projections. They might be 15 wins better with George, but only because, at full strength, they were better than their final record.
Adding George would nevertheless be a boon for their Eastern Conference stock—provided Lowry returns. Multiple league sources told the Toronto Star's Bruce Arthur the point guard had "zero interest" in returning to Toronto as of mid-May. Lowry has since clapped back, suggesting this isn't a huge issue:
I dont do this ever but :
Don't believe what you hear !! Especially if it didn't come from me, and that bs FOR SURE didn't come from me..GN
Giving up Norman Powell stings, but George more than makes up for his and DeMarre Carroll's departures. Besides, the Raptors can still re-sign one or both of Patrick Patterson and P.J. Tucker if they're not afraid of a miles-long luxury-tax bill.
Though there will be an offensive learning curve, George slides into the Raptors offense with relative ease. More than one-third of his shot attempts came off the catch last season. He'll need to up his number of assisted buckets, but Toronto wouldn't be asking him to reinvent his whole game by playing alongside Lowry and DeMar DeRozan. Lowry, in particular, makes the transition a cinch, with his own willingness to function away from the action.
There's no one way for the Raptors to erase the gap separating them from the Cavaliers and Warriors. But George is the exact type of player they need if they're going to try—a combo forward who blends the best attributes of Carroll, Powell and Tucker.
     
The Watch Your Back, Other Suitors Suitors 
Boston Celtics

2016-17 Record: 53-29
Best Realistic Trade Package: Terry Rozier, No. 37 pick, 2018 first-round pick (via Lakers, protected Nos. 2 through 5) or 2019 first-round pick (more favorable of Sacramento Kings or Philadelphia 76ers, top-pick protected) for Paul George
Wins Added: 16.3
Projected Record: 70-12 
The Boston Celtics aren't interested in renting George, according to Basketball Insiders' Steve Kyler, but you can bet they're lurking. They're always lurking.
Picking up George for a fraction of his market value would be a Danny Ainge special. And Boston's team president will have the opportunity to do just that if the Cavaliers and Lakers bow out of these sweepstakes. 
Carving out enough cap space to sign Gordon Hayward will be difficult if the Celtics land George before free agency, but it's not impossible—just really, really, ridiculously expensive, per 98.5 The Sports Hub's Brian Robb:
Math now can work for a C's George trade and Hayward signing. Can't overlook how big of a luxury tax bill would be in 2018+ w/ IT + Horford.
Forecasting 70 wins with George feels steep regardless of whether he's accompanied by Hayward. It'll be less. But 65 victories will be in play if the Celtics are starting George, Avery Bradley, Jae Crowder, Al Horford and Isaiah Thomas, with Jaylen Brown, Marcus Smart, the No. 3 pick and possibly restricted free agent Kelly Olynyk coming off the bench.
Head coach Brad Stevens could spit out 50-plus wins and the East's top seed with much less.
In fact, he already has.
     
Cleveland Cavaliers

2016-17 Record: 51-31
Best Realistic Trade Package: Kevin Love for Paul George
Wins Added: 12.9
Projected Record: 64-18
Can Cleveland make a run at George when it doesn't have a general manager?
Sources told ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst the Cavaliers are parting ways with incumbent architect David Griffin. Owner Dan Gilbert confirmed the move and has already tabbed Chauncey Billups as a potential replacement, according to Wojnarowski. But rival teams expect Indiana to act fast, per ESPN.com's Zach Lowe. Cleveland doesn't have a lot of time to get it together.
On the bright side, sources confirmed to ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin that the Pacers reached out to the Cavaliers. This is a fairly big deal. They know the Cavaliers' only trade chip is Kevin Love or, much less likely, Kyrie Irving. They wouldn't engage if they weren't interested in him or prepared to suss out a third team to enhance the structure of a deal.
George is the ideal addition for a Cavaliers faction obsessed with challenging the Warriors. They need defensively interchangeable wings who stroke three-pointers and make plays off the bounce. George has enough catch-and-shoot experience to thrive next to James and, along with the four-time MVP, would give the Cavaliers a second all-world pest.
Does George alone render them title favorites? Not at all. But the outcome of Cavs-Warriors, Part IV, feels a lot less inevitable if he and James are on the same side.
     
Houston Rockets

2016-17 Record: 55-27
Best Realistic Trade Package: Eric Gordon, Trevor Ariza, Sam Dekker and 2019 lottery-protected first-round pick for Paul George
Wins Added: 9.8
Projected Record: 65-17
"We are used to long odds," Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey told Lowe. "If Golden State makes the odds longer, we might up our risk profile and get even more aggressive. We have something up our sleeve."
Was Morey referencing Chris Paul, who is reportedly scheduled to meet with the Rockets at the start of free agency, according to the Los Angeles Times' Broderick Turner? Or did he know in advance that the Pacers would consider his best offer if George relayed his intent to bolt next summer?
Props to Morey if it's the latter. Paul is the better player, but George is the better fit. He'll have an easier time playing off the ball-dominating James Harden, and head coach Mike D'Antoni can work magic starting those two with Ryan Anderson, Patrick Beverley and Clint Capela.
And when the Rockets go hypersmall, forget about it. Deploying Anderson, Beverley, George, Harden and Lou Williams yields enough two-way firepower to make even the Warriors' "Death Lineup" (slightly) nervous.
      
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Salary information via Basketball Insiders and RealGM.

The 2017 NBA draft is just days away, and there's suddenly movement at the top of the board thanks to the Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers.
"Trade between Philly and Boston will be finalized on Monday, per source," TNT's David Aldridge tweeted. "Sides have agreed. Sixers will get first pick and take Fultz."
Adrian Wojnarowski provided more details on the swap:
Clarification on deal: Besides its 2017 FRP, Philly sends '18 Lakers pick  w/ protections. If it doesn't convey, 76ers send 2019 Kings pick.
The 2018 Lakers pick to BOS has protections on top and bottom that could keep it in Philly, and if so, then 2019 Kings' pick goes to Boston. s://t.co/l38PneUMdh
So, with the Sixers now in place at the top of the board, and all indications pointing to Markelle Fultz going there, the real challenge is projecting picks two through 30.
And that's exactly the purpose of this piece—trying to project how the rest of the first round will go. That, as well as breakdowns of the top 10, follow:
     
1. 76ers—Markelle Fultz (Washington, PG, Freshman)
As Aldridge noted in his report, the Sixers traded for the first pick so they could take Fultz. And his all-around game makes total sense there.
Fultz did everything for Washington last season, much like Ben Simmons did for LSU the year before. Having a combo guard in Fultz and a point forward in Simmons who both bring so much versatility should make the Sixers a nightmare to defend a few years from now.
    
2. Lakers—Lonzo Ball (UCLA, PG, Freshman)
After some buzz (possibly smokescreens) that the Los Angeles Lakers might pass on Lonzo Ball in recent weeks, it looks like they're coming around to the idea of adding him after all.
"Sources in L.A. say that the Lakers have been moving closer and closer to selecting Ball in the past 48 hours," ESPN's Chad Ford reported at the start of the week. "More than ever, he's the heavy favorite to get his wish to play for his hometown team."
Distractions regarding LaVar aside, Ball with the Lakers seems to make too much sense to pass up. Much like L.A.'s general manager Magic Johnson, Ball has great size for a point guard. He's more pass-always than pass-first. And his vision is already better than most NBA players.
Some have wondered about his fit next to D'Angelo Russell, but Ball's size on defense and unselfishness on the other end should make it pretty seamless.
3. Celtics—Josh Jackson (Kansas, SF, Freshman)
Prior to the big trade going down, there were rumors surfacing that the Celtics might like Josh Jackson more than Fultz.
"I've picked Danny's brain for years," a general manager told Ford. "Jackson is an Ainge player all the way. Tough, athletic, long, versatile, elite motor. If he's keeping the pick, Jackson just to me, far and away, is the most Celtics-type player for them to draft. From all my conversations with them, I'm convinced they'll take Jackson No. 1."
If that's really how Ainge was thinking, the trade is just fine for Boston.
Jackson makes sense for Boston as another rangy forward who can defend multiple positions, something every team needs in today's NBA.
There is a chance Boston's not done dealing, though. Getting more assets together could help the Cs land Jimmy Butler or another wing in the trade market. This pick would likely be involved in such a scenario.
       
4. Suns—Jayson Tatum (Duke, SF, Freshman)
Assuming they don't trade Eric Bledsoe, the Phoenix Suns are pretty much set in the backcourt. Devin Booker dropped 70 in a game last season and Bledsoe averaged 21.1 points and 6.3 assists while posting a career-high Box Plus-Minus of 3.3, per Basketball Reference.
And while T.J. Warren is a solid scorer at the 3, the Suns could use another forward to complement their strong guard tandem. Tatum may have the highest offensive upside of any wing in this draft and could be an interchangeable 3-4 with Warren.
      
5. Kings—De'Aaron Fox (Kentucky, PG, Freshman)
As explained by HoopsHype's Bryan Kalbrosky, the Sacramento Kings have been interested in De'Aaron Fox for a while now. Selecting him without having to trade up would be ideal.
Fox would give the Kings a great athlete and competitor to pair with the outside shooting of Buddy Hield, who averaged 15.1 points and shot 42.8 percent from three after he moved to Sacramento last season.
     
6. Magic—Malik Monk (Kentucky, SG, Freshman)
Orlando has young players all over the roster, but none of them look like surefire stars at this point. So, the Magic can ignore positional need, and instead look at the numbers.
They were 25th in the NBA in made threes last season, and even worse, 29th in three-point percentage. Adding a shooter should be a priority.
And Malik Monk is one of the best shooters in this class. He led the SEC in both three-point attempts and three-point percentage, per Sports Reference. 
    
7. Timberwolves—Jonathan Isaac (Florida State, PF/SF, Freshman)
Jonathan Isaac was top 10 in the ACC in a number of statistical categories, including rebounding percentage, block percentage and Defensive Box Plus-Minus, per Sports Reference.
His defensive ability at the 4 should help a frontcourt that includes Andrew Wiggins and Karl-Anthony Towns, both of whom have struggled to defend at the NBA level.
     
8. Knicks—Frank Ntilikina (France, PG, 18)
If Phil Jackson and the New York Knicks are truly married to the Triangle Offense, and it appears that they are, French point guard Frank Ntilikina makes sense.
The system has often called for big point guards who can play off the ball. The 6'5" Ntilikina is shooting 43.1 percent from three in France this season.
     
9. Mavericks—Dennis Smith, Jr. (NC State, PG, Freshman)
Yogi Farrell was a fun underdog story for the Dallas Mavericks last season, but Dennis Smith, Jr. sliding to this sport in the draft would give them more of a long-term answer at point.
At 6'3" with a 6'3" wingspan, Smith lacks ideal size for today's NBA, but he's among the most explosive athlete's in this class.
     
10. Kings—Zach Collins (Gonzaga, PF, Freshman)
Sacramento already has plenty of young talent inside with Skal Labissiere, Willie Cauley-Stein and Georgios Papagiannis, but Zach Collins may have a higher ceiling than all of them.
In his lone season with 37-2 Gonzaga, Collins averaged 23.2 points, 13.6 rebounds and 4.1 blocks per 40 minutes. He shot 67.2 percent from two-point range and 47.6 percent from three. His .703 True Shooting Percentage ranked fourth in the entire NCAA, per Sports Reference.
Collins' offensive skill level is off the charts for a traditional big, and his mobility means he's no slouch on the defensive end either.
11. Hornets—Lauri Markkanen (Arizona, PF, Freshman)
12. Pistons—Luke Kennard (Duke, SG, Sophomore)
13. Nuggets—OG Anunoby (Indiana, SF, Sophomore)
14. Heat—Jarrett Allen (Texas, C, Freshman)
15. Blazers—John Collins (Wake Forest, PF, Sophomore)
16. Bulls—Ike Anigbogu (UCLA, C, Freshman)
17. Bucks—Donovan Mitchell (Louisville, SG, Sophomore)
18. Pacers—TJ Leaf (UCLA, PF, Freshman)
19. Hawks—Justin Patton (Creighton, C, Freshman)
20. Blazers—Terrance Ferguson (Australia, SG, 18)
21. Thunder—Justin Jackson (North Carolina, SF, Junior)
22. Nets—Bam Adebayo (Kentucky, C, Freshman)
23. Raptors—Ivan Rabb (California, PF, Sophomore)
24. Jazz—Jonah Bolden (Australia, PF, 21)
25. Magic—Isaiah Hartenstein (Germany, PF, 18)
26. Blazers—Jawun Evans (Oklahoma State, PG, Sophomore)
27. Nets—Tyler Lydon (Syracuse, PF/SF, Sophomore)
28. Lakers—Harry Giles (Duke, PF, Freshman)
29. Spurs—Semi Ojeleye (SMU, SF/PF, Junior)
30. Jazz—Frank Jackson (Duke, PG, Freshman)

ESPN's Chad Ford reported Monday that the Los Angeles Lakers are dangling guard D'Angelo Russell to land another top-12 pick in the 2017 NBA draft.
Ford added the Lakers may be targeting Duke guard Luke Kennard and Gonzaga center Zach Collins in that range.
Eric Pincus of Basketball Insiders later tweeted he was told the rumor is inaccurate, however.
L.A. has long been expected to select UCLA guard Lonzo Ball with the No. 2 overall pick. If it does so, a logjam would form in the backcourt with Russell and Jordan Clarkson.
The Lakers took Russell with the No. 2 overall pick in the 2015 NBA draft out of Ohio State, and the 21-year-old is still coming into his own.
Last season, Russell averaged 15.6 points, 4.8 assists and 3.5 rebounds per game, while shooting 40.5 percent from the field and 35.2 percent from long range.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
There has already been significant movement in this year's draft, as the Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers finalized a deal Monday that resulted in Philly's moving up from No. 3 to No. 1 in the first round.
If the Lakers can replace Russell with Ball and add another intriguing prospect to the mix, they will have plenty of potential to feel good about with Clarkson, Julius Randle and Brandon Ingram also on board.
Also, since L.A. no longer owns its 2018 first-round pick, making an even bigger splash during the first round of the 2017 draft could be key in terms of accelerating the rebuilding process.

Veteran guard Dwyane Wade is reportedly leaning toward exercising his player option to remain with the Chicago Bulls in 2017-18.
According to ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne, Wade has until June 27 to decide, but league sources indicated he favors picking up the $24 million option.
The 2016-17 season marked Wade's first with the Bulls after he spent the first 13 years of his career with the Miami Heat.
Wade put up respectable numbers last season with 18.3 points, 4.5 rebounds and 3.8 assists per game, but he missed 22 contests due primarily to a fractured elbow.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Lauri Markkanen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Bulls Rookie
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
The 35-year-old veteran wasn't named to the Eastern Conference All-Star team, which ended a 12-year streak.
Per Shelburne, Wade told Bulls management he doesn't want to be part of a rebuild, but she added he is leaning toward picking up his option regardless of what happens in the coming days.
ESPN's Marc Stein reported Monday that the Cleveland Cavaliers have been trying to create a package to pry superstar forward Jimmy Butler from the Bulls.
Chicago squeaked into the playoffs last season with a record of 41-41, and it had the top-seeded Boston Celtics on the ropes with a 2-0 lead in the first round of the playoffs before dropping four straight.
Although Wade's production has decreased in comparison to his peak years, he and Butler still form a dynamic duo capable of carrying the Bulls in the Eastern Conference if they remain together.

LaVar Ball once again expressed confidence Monday that his son, Lonzo Ball, will go No. 2 overall in the 2017 NBA draft to the Los Angeles Lakers.
In an interview with TMZ Sports, the Ball family patriarch said the following about Lonzo's draft status: 
"Everybody knows [Lonzo's] going to be a Laker."
Ball was also asked about the sales figures for Lonzo's Big Baller Brand ZO2 signature shoes, but he refused to supply specifics and would only say that sales are "good."
The draft was shaken up significantly Monday when the Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers finalized a deal that resulted in swapping the No. 1 and No. 3 overall picks.
According to ESPN.com, The Undefeated's Marc J. Spears and TNT's David Aldridge were informed that the Sixers intend to select Washington guard Markelle Fultz with the top selection.
As for Boston, ESPN's Chad Ford reported prior to the trade that they were heavily considering selecting Kansas swingman Josh Jackson.
The Celtics landing Jackson would be incumbent on L.A. not taking him, but Ball has long been the expected selection for the Lakers.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Ball has only worked out for the Lakers during the pre-draft process, and LaVar expressed confidence in May that his son would end up with Los Angeles, per Ryan Ward of Lakers Nation: "There's no doubt in my mind whatsoever. I'm going to say it again, in English, speak it into existence. In Spanish, speak it into existence. In Africa, speak that mother[expletive] into existence."
In his one season at UCLA, Ball was one of the best players in college basketball, as he averaged 14.6 points, 7.6 assists and 6.0 rebounds per game.
If Ball lands with the Lakers, he will join a somewhat crowded backcourt that already includes former No. 2 overall pick D'Angelo Russell and Jordan Clarkson.

Thursday's NBA draft is rushing up fast, and the Los Angeles Lakers still have choices to make.
It will be the third year in a row that L.A. selects at No. 2—holding on each time through the luck of the draw to a protected pick that would otherwise go to the Philadelphia 76ers. The Lakers also have the No. 28 pick in the first round.
This time around will be different from years past, however. A new team president and general manager in Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka are in place alongside second-year head coach Luke Walton.
If the team had its druthers, it would likely snag Washington point guard Markelle Fultz. The presumed top overall choice worked out in Los Angeles on Thursday.
But any chance of that seemingly got snuffed when The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski dropped one of his patented bombshells—the Boston Celtics were on the verge of trading their No. 1 pick to the Sixers for their No. 3 plus future picks.
On Saturday, Fultz met with Philadelphia, checking off one more box on a blockbuster move. The exchange of draft picks became official on Monday, per Celtics.com. 
Lakers fans shouldn't fret, though, because this is a draft class loaded with talent. In fact, it's so deep that Tania Ganguli of the Los Angeles Times notes that L.A. has been "taking and making calls about trading the (No. 2) pick."
On the other hand, ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne reported Sunday that L.A. is "trying to acquire another first-round pick."
Regardless of rumors, the Lakers have specific needs: defense, the ability to stretch the floor and a true playmaker—D'Angelo Russell has shown that he's better suited as a 2-guard than running the point.

What do the Lakers need lots more of? Defense. What does Oregon's Jordan Bell bring? He was the Pac-12 Defensive Player of the Year for 2017, that's all.
This dude is hyperathletic, can switch multiple positions on D, plays solid pick-and-roll and has the kind of open-court speed and awareness that would fit with Walton's system.
He's not big, measuring 6'8 ½" at the NBA Draft Combine, but has a nice 6'11 ¾" wingspan as compensation. The three-year man had solid stats this season with 10.9 points, 8.8 boards, 2.2 blocks and 1.3 steals. But his game is about more than numbers.
As Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman observes in his mock draft:
"His future role and identity are clear: Bell projects as an energizer and enforcer around the basket, where he finishes above the rim and protects it. The ability to switch defensively and pass only increase his value, which would get another boost if his mid-range jumper becomes consistent. Bell worked out for the Lakers and should be firmly on their radar at No. 28."
Bell wouldn't take major minutes away from Julius Randle or Larry Nance Jr. at the 4. But if he continues honing his shooting stroke, he could be an intriguing small-ball 5, perhaps subbing in for Ivica "Zublocka" Zubac, who also knows something about protecting the rim.

Caleb Swanigan has fought through a lot of adversity to become a fringe first-round draft possibility. The Purdue sophomore topped the NCAA with 28 double-doubles and was the Big Ten Player of the Year.
But Swanigan is on the short side for a power forward at 6'9" and even shorter for a small-ball center, which is probably where he'd fit best in the NBA. "Biggie" isn't lacking in sturdiness though—250 pounds, which is a whole lot less than his peak weight of 360 in eighth grade.
As ESPN.com's Myron Medcalf wrote in January, Swanigan's journey led him through homelessness, family tragedy and a "complicated relationship with food" before being adopted at age 13 by Indiana-based sports agent Roosevelt Barnes. That's when things started turning around.
These days, Swanigan is a relentless rebounder who averaged 12.5 boards per game this past season (a nine-foot standing reach doesn't hurt). Add to that a rather astonishing 44.7 percent from three-point range.
Imagine if Ben Wallace had a shooting touch. That's the kind of profile Swanigan could fit.
The Lakers already have Randle, Nance Jr. and Tarik Black taking turns at the 5 in small lineups. Swanigan would have his work cut out to crack the rotation. But his tough defense and scoring ability count in his favor.

Tyler Lydon would fit a major position of need for the Lakers—he can flat-out shoot the ball.
The 6'10" power forward with a 7'0" wingspan isn't particularly powerful. But he can come off the bench and let it fly with a quick, overhead release that has plenty of snap on it. The sophomore from Syracuse averaged 13.2 points, 8.6 boards and 1.4 blocks this past season, making 39.2 percent of his three-pointers.
After his Lakers workout on June 11, Lydon emphasized his calling card along with other useful skills, per the Orange County Register's Mark Medina: "My ability to stretch the floor and shoot it as well as I can. I also feel like I can do more. I can put the ball on the floor and make plays for other guys, find guys when they’re open. Those things. At the end of the day, I'm trying to come in and play my game."
L.A. could very well lose its best outside shooter—regardless of position—if Nick Young opts out and signs elsewhere over the summer. And, despite the continuing efforts of players like Randall and Nance Jr. to expand their range, the frontcourt is conspicuously absent when it comes to natural floor-stretching ability.
Given his profile, Lydon could carve out a role in the NBA for years to come as a bench scorer. The Lakers might as well add him to their toolkit now with an affordable rookie contract.

De'Aaron Fox is the dark-horse pick for the Lakers. But what a fun and wild ride he'd be.
He's brash, full of confidence and an absolute terror on defense. Who wouldn't love to see this kid unleashed on the league's top floor generals?
"I feel like I just attack everyone," Fox said after his L.A. workout, per Joey Ramirez for Lakers.com. "No matter who's in front of you—no matter if it's defense, offense, rebounding. Every aspect of the game, I just feel like I attack it."
The 19-year-old Kentucky freshman has good size for the position at 6'3" with a 6'6 ½" wingspan. At a buck-seventy, he'll need to muscle up. But he's got an explosive first step and is impossibly quick in the open court.
The knock on the lefty is his shooting, as he converted a meager 24.6 percent of his three-point attempts. Fox's stroke could stand to improve—he releases from the side of his head instead of above it.
Still, Fox has been working hard on that aspect of his game, stating that he's trying to turn a "weakness into a strength," per Mike Bresnahan of Spectrum SportsNet.
Fox famously outplayed Lonzo Ball in the Sweet 16, pouring in 39 points while holding Ball to just 10. But despite that, it's still a bit hard to envision a scenario in which Fox leapfrogs both Ball and Josh Jackson.

Should the Lakers use their prized lottery pick on a guy who duplicates Brandon Ingram's wing position and whose major strength is defense?
That's really the issue in a nutshell. Yes, Josh Jackson could conceivably play in the same lineup as Ingram. That according to the Jayhawk himself, who weighed in, per Medina: "When it's winning time, there is no five-man (center) on the court. There is no four-man (power forward) on the court. There is pretty much forwards and guards all playing at the same time. I don't really think me and Brandon playing in the same position would cause any problems. I think it would be really special."
But according to Jonathan Givony of DraftExpress, Jackson's second workout with the Purple and Gold "did not go well at all." Apparently, the one-and-done prospect from Kansas "struggled with his shooting and handle."
This has been the knock on the 20-year-old all along. He's a monster when it comes to guarding multiple positions, and he can score in bunches as well. But Jackson's offense has more to do with natural athleticism and transition opportunities than consistent shot mechanics (he was especially bedeviled at the charity stripe, converting just 56.6 percent of his attempts).
While partnering Ingram with a second multipositional forward is an intriguing idea, the rebuilding Lakers might be better served using their No. 2 pick on a much-needed playmaker.

On Monday, Bleacher Report’s Kevin Ding reported that "the Lakers are nearing a final decision" to choose Lonzo Ball as their No. 2 overall pick.
But it's not a done deal until draft night and it's important to examine both the negatives and positives for the 6'6" freshman from UCLA.
Ball doesn't have the speed of Fox nor the defensive athleticism of Jackson. He also has a crooked sidearm jumper that begs to be crunched by seasoned defenders. But he gets that oddball shot off fast, and his 41.2 percent rate from downtown (at 5.4 attempts per game) has to count for something.
There's also the case of his father LaVar—the sports dad whose pronouncements come fast and furious. Lonzo trolled his pops in a Father's Day Foot Locker ad (h/t Adweek) and followed that up with a more heartfelt tribute via The Players' Tribune.
And then there was the first Lakers workout in which Ball reportedly looked out of shape followed by a second in which he more effectively showcased his training routine—ESPN.com's Shelburne summed it up.
Through it all, the 19-year-old seems determined to bring leadership skills to a team now overseen by his Showtime idol, Johnson.
"He's the best point guard who ever played and me being a point guard, I looked up to him my whole life," Ball said about Magic, per B/R's Eric Pincus. "I finally got a chance to meet him. It's just a blessing."
The natural playmaker filled the statsheet with 14.6 points, 7.6 dimes, 6.0 boards and 1.8 steals in his sole college season. His vision and full-court lob passes will fire up teammates in the NBA, leading to an avalanche of points. On the defensive end, he uses good instincts, quick hands and his length effectively.
Ball is just too much of an obvious choice to pass on.
Stats courtesy of Sports Reference. Measurements from DraftExpress.

The 2017 NBA draft is almost upon us, which means so are overreactions and premature evaluations.
But before we rip this current class to shreds or shower it with unearned praise, we're going to do something bold: evaluate past drafts using the benefit of hindsight.
It sounds crazy, but the idea is that with years of actual NBA data at our disposal, we can get an accurate assessment of how an entire draft class has fared. Since we're using multiple seasons to make these judgments, we have spared the most recent classes from our rankings.
For those in the running, multiple measures are used to find their strength in relation to the others. Nothing helps more than the presence of elite talents, while early busts are most damaging. The highest-ranked drafts are those with star power, depth and minimal misfires.
The 2000s have seen some gems, a few flops and everything in between. This worst-to-first walk-through of recent history will reveal all the bright spots and blemishes on the league's collective draft record.

2016
The latest batch of NBA newcomers did not make a great first impression. The class was often regarded as a two-player crop—one lost the entire season to injury (Ben Simmons), the other had the worst true shooting percentage of anyone who logged 2,000-plus minutes (Brandon Ingram). Only one of the Rookie of the Year finalists came from this class, and he was a second-rounder (Malcolm Brogdon).
There's a reason these evaluations must be delayed, and this class could prove much better than expected if some of the greener players at the top of the board pan out. As it stands, it's already yielded some pleasant second-round surprises like Brogdon, Ivica Zubac and Patrick McCaw.
     
2015
Even with No. 3 pick Jahlil Okafor looking like a time-traveler from basketball's back-to-the-basket past, this class impresses first with its unicorn collection. Two of the four players with at least 100 blocks and 100 triples this season came from the 2015 draft: Karl-Anthony Towns and Kristaps Porzingis. Myles Turner (No. 11) hinted he could join that club in short order.
Consistency eludes D'Angelo Russell, while Okafor's skills seem outdated. Mario Hezonja has struggled to find minutes on some bad Orlando Magic teams. The offensive games of Emmanuel Mudiay, Stanley Johnson and Justise Winslow have all raised alarms. But this season's single-game high-scorer came from this draft (Devin Booker), as did steals like Willy Hernangomez (35th pick), Josh Richardson (40) and Norman Powell (46).
     
2014
Depth was always seen as a strength of this group, and hindsight hasn't found any egregious early missteps. Nik Stauskas and Noah Vonleh both seem overdrafted as top-10 selections, but each also just capped the best season of his career, so they're trending the right way.
The question here is whether this draft produced solid or star-level talent. Injuries haven't made that easy to figure out, as five of the top seven picks have all missed at least 30 games in a single season—Jabari Parker, Joel Embiid, Aaron Gordon, Dante Exum and Julius Randle. Embiid has centerpiece potential if he can stay healthy. The only other player to show that level of upside is the 41st pick, Nikola Jokic.

14. 2000
While neither are confirmed, there are two narratives around the 2000 NBA draft commonly heard in basketball circles. One is that the draft board—pictured above—can turn people to stone if viewed directly for more than five seconds. The other is that this class would later inspire the creation of the poop emoji.
Just three of the 58 players drafted eventually made an All-Star roster, and none of the trio—Kenyon Martin, Michael Redd and Jamaal Magloire—was selected more than once. Super-sub Jamal Crawford is the only class member to clear 12,000 career points (he's put in 18,084), while "Dancin'" Hedo Turkoglu paced the group with 63.3 career win shares.
     
13. 2002
If you think about the good of this class, you think about flashes of dominance. Yao Ming had some unguardable moments. Amar'e Stoudemire appeared to be headed down a Hall of Fame path. Carlos Boozer went from second-round flier to 20-point, 10-rebound All-Star.
But longevity was not a strength. The bodies of Ming and Stoudemire broke down before they reached historical greatness. Boozer was a two-time All-Star by 26 and remains a two-time All-Star. Four different lottery picks played four seasons or fewer—Jay Williams, Nikoloz Tskitishvili, Dajuan Wagner and Marcus Haislip.
     
12. 2004
This class is famous for providing the league with its last preps-to-pros superstar in Dwight Howard. Not everyone may view him as such, given the twists and turns his career his taken. But he was selected to eight consecutive All-Star Games, won three Defensive Player of the Year awards and averaged 19.5 points, 13.3 rebounds and 2.3 blocks over that stretch.
Why so much Howard talk? Because the rest of the class was fairly forgettable. It did provide complementary stars like Andre Iguodala and Luol Deng. It also included lottery throwaways like Rafael Araujo, Luke Jackson and Robert Swift. When history looks back on this draft, it remembers Howard's high-flying heroics, then decides it needs a nap.
     
11. 2013
This is the don't-judge-a-draft-class-by-its-historically-bad-No.-1-pick reminder. Anthony Bennett was an all-time bust. He played for four teams in four seasons and was most recently waived by the 62-loss Brooklyn Nets. What's worse is this draft included eight additional top-20 picks who have been worse than replacement players.
And somehow, this class has still seen the rise of some elite talents. Giannis Antetokounmpo (15th pick) made his All-Star debut this season while stuffing the stat sheet at an historic rate. Rudy Gobert (27th) could win multiple Defensive Player of the Year awards. C.J. McCollum (10th) has been a 20-points-per-game scorer for two years running. Hope isn't lost for this class, even if it's run out for Bennett.

All-Stars: LaMarcus Aldridge, Kyle Lowry, Paul Millsap, Rajon Rondo, Brandon Roy
Most Win Shares: LaMarcus Aldridge, 86.7 (second pick)
The success rate in the 2006 draft would make for an awful batting average. There was a swing-and-miss at the top with Andrea Bargnani going first, then another misfire with Adam Morrison at No. 3. Shelden Williams was a dud at No. 5, while the ninth and 10th selections were wasted on Patrick O'Bryant and Saer Sene, respectively.
All told, nearly half of the first-round picks (13) played five NBA seasons or fewer.
But the good grabs were borderline great.
LaMarcus Aldridge, selected second, has been a rock-solid five-time All-Star. Once Kyle Lowry (24th) found his footing, he proved potent enough to lead a 50-win team. Paul Millsap was a larcenous find as the 47th selection. Rajon Rondo was more of the same at 21. And if injuries hadn't befallen Brandon Roy, the No. 6 pick had the makings of a perennial All-Star.

All-Stars: Andrew Bynum, Danny Granger, David Lee, Chris Paul, Deron Williams
Most Win Shares: Chris Paul, 154.6 (fourth pick)
The 2005 draft is a testament to Chris Paul's talent.
Some 12 years after its completion, the point god still stands as the most influential selection made that night. Never mind that he wasn't the first pick (Andrew Bogut), nor the first point guard (Deron Williams), nor one of the eight high-school hoopers who were the last to make the draft jump before the age limit barred their entries.
Paul could walk away now and still be one of only seven players to tally at least 15,000 points, 8,000 assists and 1,500 steals. He's already an all-time great, which makes it more impressive that at one time, Williams provided a serious threat to Paul's point-guard throne.
The two floor generals were the draft's only transformative talents, but the class shines for its depth and lack of major misses. Ike Diogu was the only bust in the top 10—Andrew Bynum had star skills when he suited up—and the second round was loaded with valuable finds: C.J. Miles (34th), Monta Ellis (40th), Lou Williams (45th), Amir Johnson (56th) and Marcin Gortat (57th).

All-Stars: Kevin Durant, Marc Gasol, Al Horford, Joakim Noah
Most Win Shares: Kevin Durant, 119.8 (second pick)
Among the first four players drafted in 2007 were an MVP (Kevin Durant), an All-Star Swiss Army knife (Al Horford) and the current owner of the biggest contract in NBA history (Mike Conley). Absent from that list is the actual first pick, Greg Oden, who squeezed only 105 appearances into six injury-riddled years.
"I know I'm one of the biggest busts in NBA history," Oden told Mark Titus, then with Grantland, in 2014, "and I know that it'll only get worse as Kevin Durant continues doing big things. ... It's frustrating that my body can't do what my mind wants it to do sometimes."
But Oden wasn't a bust for playing purposes. In fact, he averaged 14.9 points, 11.6 rebounds and 2.3 blocks per 36 minutes for his career. Really, this class only had one major gaffe in the first 10 picks, and that was using the sixth selection on Yi Jianlian, a 7-footer who shot just 40.4 percent over five seasons.
As for superstars, only Durant and Marc Gasol—a heist as the 48th pick—fit the bill. But Horford, Conley and Joakim Noah all served in Robin-esque support roles. The 20s also ran heavy on longtime pros like Jason Smith, Jared Dudley, Wilson Chandler, Aaron Brooks, Arron Afflalo and Tiago Splitter.

All-Stars: Anthony Davis, Andre Drummond, Draymond Green, Damian Lillard
Most Win Shares: Anthony Davis, 48.8 (first pick)
Leading up to the event, the 2012 draft was seen as Anthony Davis and everyone else. Five years later, that still rings true.
The New Orleans Pelicans' single-browed superstar has been elite almost from the start. He had 21 points and seven rebounds in his NBA debut, then 23 points, 11 rebounds and five blocks two games later. His career 26.6 player efficiency rating is the league's fourth-highest since the start of 2012-13.
The draft delivered another franchise face in Damian Lillard at No. 6, plus All-Stars Andre Drummond (No. 9) and Draymond Green (35). Its All-Star list could grow with Bradley Beal (No. 3) and Harrison Barnes (No. 7) both topping 19 points per game this season. The worst top-10 selection was the still-serviceable Thomas Robinson at five.
The first round provided hits almost everywhere—it's a shame Royce White's career was never kickstarted—and the draft's depth spilled over into the second round. Jae Crowder (34), Green (35), Khris Middleton (39) and Will Barton (40) all came off the board within a span of seven selections.

All-Stars: DeMarcus Cousins, Paul George, Gordon Hayward, John Wall
Most Win Shares: Greg Monroe, 45.2 (seventh)
The 2010 draft was either John Calipari's finest hour or best recruiting tool (or both). The Kentucky head coach had a record five players selected in the first round, including the program's first No. 1 pick (John Wall).
"Right now, it feels like we won a national title," Calipari told Andy Katz, then with ESPN. "That's how I feel. I have a tingle in my body, more so than when we went to the Final Fours [at UMass and Memphis]."
It doesn't hurt that four of his five first-rounders produced. Wall and DeMarcus Cousins (No. 5) have both made All-Star appearances. Eric Bledsoe (18) has put up All-Star numbers on a bad team. And despite seldom starting, Patrick Patterson (14) always plays his way into a prominent role. The lone miss, Daniel Orton (29), last played an NBA game in January 2014.
As for the non-Kentucky picks, Gordon Hayward (9) and Paul George (10) have proved they fell farther than they should have. Greg Monroe (7), Derrick Favors (3), Al-Farouq Aminu (8) and Trevor Booker (23) lead a group of solid bigs, while Avery Bradley (19) has been a steal. The top 10 had one major flop (Ekpe Udoh, 6), while the second round eventually produced a surprise star (Hassan Whiteside, 33).

All-Stars: Gilbert Arenas, Tyson Chandler, Pau Gasol, Joe Johnson, Mehmet Okur, Tony Parker, Zach Randolph, Gerald Wallace
Most Win Shares: Pau Gasol, 137.0 (third pick)
It's inaccurate to say the 2001 draft lacked star power. The class includes two Hall of Fame locks—Pau Gasol, taken third, and Tony Parker, 28th—and the second-most All-Stars of any group in our rankings.
This was a great class for good players. Of the 57 players selected that night—the Minnesota Timberwolves forfeited their first-round pick for the Joe Smith fiasco—24 would play 10-plus seasons in the league. That group included the biggest "busts" in the class, top pick Kwame Brown and No. 4 choice Eddy Curry.
Where this class ultimately lacked was in franchise-face talent. There were second or third options on great teams (like Gasol and Parker), or alphas on non-contenders (Gilbert Arenas and Joe Johnson). No one transformed teams overnight.
But a ton of guys helped strengthen their organizations. The All-Star list was extensive, and it didn't even include Jason Richardson (No. 5), Shane Battier (No. 6) and Richard Jefferson (No. 13).

All-Stars: Roy Hibbert, DeAndre Jordan, Brook Lopez, Kevin Love, Derrick Rose, Russell Westbrook
Most Win Shares: Russell Westbrook, 80.1 (fourth pick)
Looking back now, the biggest disappointment of the 2008 draft was probably how tame Russell Westbrook kept his attire. Granted, no one knew the Brodie would become a fashion icon—let alone an Oscar Robertson impersonator—but a bold Westbrook draft suit would have been epic.
That's a credit to the class, by the way. Unless you were a big believer in Joe Alexander (No. 8) or Anthony Randolph (No. 14), there weren't significant letdowns at the top of the class. Michael Beasley and O.J. Mayo had flaws, sure, but both also made more than 500 NBA appearances.
As for the success stories, Westbrook is the easy choice now. But don't forget how forceful pre-injury, MVP-winning Derrick Rose was. Kevin Love and Brook Lopez can both fill a box score, and Roy Hibbert had his run as a premier defensive anchor.
Outside of Westbrook, though, this group's biggest claim to fame might be its incredible depth. Nicolas Batum, DeAndre Jordan, George Hill, Goran Dragic, Serge Ibaka, Ryan Anderson, Courtney Lee and Kosta Koufos were all taken after the first 20 picks were made.

All-Stars: Jimmy Butler, Kyrie Irving, Kawhi Leonard, Isaiah Thomas, Klay Thompson, Kemba Walker
Most Win Shares: Kawhi Leonard, 55.4 (15th pick)
It takes more than one player to make a great draft class, and the 2011 version was far from a solo act. That said, the conversation must start with Kawhi Leonard, taken 15th then and now among the NBA's best.
"He is a really unique player," New Orleans Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry said, per ESPN.com's Michael C. Wright. "You don't want to say Michael Jordan, but it's that type of situation, where you've got a really, really good offensive player and a tremendous defensive player."
Leonard, already a Finals MVP and two-time Defensive Player of the Year, is a two-way superhero. He was one of only three players with an offensive real plus-minus of five-plus and a defensive real plus-minus of at least one, per ESPN.com. Leonard was also the only player to rank among the top six in both offensive and defensive win shares.
Two other two-way studs landed outside the top 10—Klay Thompson (11) and Jimmy Butler (30)—while elite scoring guards went first (Kyrie Irving), ninth (Kemba Walker) and 60th (Isaiah Thomas). Kenneth Faried (22), Reggie Jackson (24) and Chandler Parsons (38) all slipped outside the top 20. That's more than enough value to make up for the early mistakes of Jan Vesely and Jimmer Fredette at Nos. 6 and 10, respectively.

All-Stars: Stephen Curry, DeMar DeRozan, Blake Griffin, James Harden, Jrue Holiday, Jeff Teague
Most Win Shares: James Harden, 91.3 (third pick)
The 2009 draft was never supposed to shine this bright. In fact, The Ringer's Bill Simmons, then writing for Grantland, wrote "it's the worst draft class since the infamous Kenyon Martin Draft in 2000."
That projection was just a bit off. Thank the seventh pick Stephen Curry, already a two-time MVP—the first-ever unanimous selection—historically proficient shooter and two-time champion. Thank the third selection James Harden, already a five-time All-Star, assist champion, MVP runner-up (2014-15) and current MVP finalist. Thank top choice Blake Griffin, a five-time All-Star and third-place MVP finisher in 2013-14.
Curry and Harden are franchise anchors. Griffin has displayed that ability, if his body would ever cooperate. DeMar DeRozan is now an All-Star regular. Jrue Holiday and Jeff Teague had the game to get there at one point. And rotations are filled with this draft's value picks—Darren Collison at 21, Taj Gibson at 26, DeMarre Carroll at 27, Patrick Beverley at 42, Danny Green at 46, Patty Mills at 55.
Hasheem Thabeet (second) and Jonny Flynn (sixth) were top-10 disasters. But they weren't damaging enough to bring down this combination of stars and supporting pieces. The only thing capable of that is the Hall of Fame-bound super class at No. 1.

All-Stars: Carmelo Anthony, Chris Bosh, Josh Howard, LeBron James, Chris Kaman, Kyle Korver, Dwyane Wade, David West, Mo Williams
Most Win Shares: LeBron James, 205.4 (first pick)
"When you've been around long enough, you get to where you know it when you see a potential franchise player," Miami Heat president Pat Riley told ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst. "We all knew there were several special players in that draft. You could feel it. And we all wanted them."
Against all odds, the reality of the 2003 draft exceeded the hype. Four franchise pillars were announced among the first five picks—LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade. The quartet, which has accumulated 46 All-Star selections, all have Hall of Fame probabilities north of 98 percent. Only two other sets of classmates on this list both clear 90—Gasol and Parker; Curry and Harden.
The top of the 2003 draft is enough to garner the No. 1 ranking, even while subtracting the whiff on Darko Milicic at No. 2. James is the best player of his generation, if not of all time. Wade was Batman on one world champion and Robin on two others. Bosh put up major numbers on his own before serving as a two-time champion's X-factor. Anthony's scoring average stands above every active player's but James' and Durant's.
But this wasn't a four-player class. It leads all this millennium everyone with nine All-Stars, two of whom were second-rounders (Mo Williams at 47, Kyle Korver at 51). Twenty-seven of the picks played at least 10 NBA seasons, not including T.J. Ford, who almost surely would've hit that mark if not for neck and spine injuries that forced an early retirement. Even with some lottery misses, this draft outclassed the rest of the 2000s.
Statistics used courtesy of NBA.com and Basketball Reference.
Zach Buckley covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @ZachBuckleyNBA.

The NBA draft is hard. Whether teams are picking first overall or trying to unearth second-round gems, it's difficult to find high-quality players while avoiding busts.
Each team has one point person (general manager, president of basketball operations, etc.) who ultimately makes the call at each draft slot, and some of those executives are better at navigating the pitfalls than others. 
To determine which of the 30 current front-office commanders in chief are best at this process, we're turning to the numbers. 
The NBA's current top decision-makers have drafted 370 total players in their careers. That's just a portion of the 1,182 total selections since 1997. But all 1,182 are important to give us a true sense of expected value at each of the 60 annual slots.
Using NBA Math's total points added (TPA) model, we've broken down the careers of every draftee since '97 to determine average TPA per season by pick. The No. 1 selection should produce 33.42 TPA per season, while the final pick of the draft sits at minus-13.55 TPA, as you can see from the regression here. 
The expected TPA per season was then compared to each player's actual score. Career longevity was factored in by giving proportional weight to players who exceeded or fell short of expectations for longer periods of time. Players were attributed to the teams that drafted them, or the teams that otherwise acquired them that same summer. 
You won't find Travis Schlenk (Atlanta Hawks), Magic Johnson (Los Angeles Lakers), Jon Horst (Milwaukee Bucks), Jeff Weltman (Orlando Magic) or David Griffin's replacement in Cleveland in these rankings, because 2017 will be their first NBA draft on record as top decision-makers.

Score: -94.11
Since taking over as the Brooklyn Nets general manager in February 2016, Sean Marks hasn't been granted too many opportunities to prove himself during draft season. The previous brain trust prevented him from using any lofty selections to capitalize on the misfortunes of his franchise, leaving him with just the Nos. 20 and 42 picks in the 2016 NBA draft. 
That's the (kind of) good news. Marks can easily turn around his premature score, due both to the size of the sample with which we're working and the youth of the players linked to his name. 
But giving him the benefit of the doubt is also tougher when both Caris LeVert (No. 20 in 2016) and Isaiah Whitehead (No. 42 in 2016) struggled during their rookie seasons.
Though the former showed offensive potential as a score-first option once he made his injury-delayed debut in December, consistency eluded him while playing on a bottom-feeding squad that didn't have many players capable of distracting the defense. He still failed to match the expectations of a No. 20 pick (minus-0.94 TPA per season, which checks in only slightly below the league average) by finishing with minus-28.71 TPA. 
Marks now has two first-round selections (Nos. 22 and 27) at his disposal, and he'll have to hit on one or hope for a LeVert breakthrough in order to creep out of last place. 

Score: -72.75
Tom Thibodeau enjoys a sterling reputation as a coach, and it's well deserved. He established himself as a defensive genius throughout his years with the Chicago Bulls, even if the Minnesota Timberwolves struggled to prevent points at a league-average level during his first season running the show. 
But when he agreed to the Minnesota transition, he also took over as president of basketball operations for the first time in his career. That's an entirely different role, one that forces him to step beyond his comfort zone of coaching up a defense and working on player development. 
Much like Marks, we don't yet have a great sense for what Thibodeau can do in the draft. He's made only a single pick which leaves him without an established track record and places even more importance on Minnesota's lone choice in 2017 (No. 7). That 2016 pick didn't work out well during his rookie season, as Kris Dunn went from being an exciting prospect at No. 4 who could possible force Ricky Rubio onto the trade block to likely missing out on any All-Rookie accolades. 
This is how ESPN.com's Zach Lowe finished his article about the All-Rookie (and All-Defense) selections: "Additional apologies to: Alex Abrines, Tyler Ulis (too late!), Timothe Luwawu-Cabarrot (finishing well!), Kris Dunn (not really), Jakob Poeltl, and Juancho Hernangomez."
It's not exactly a good sign when that was literally the first mention of the point guard. 
Dunn did display impressive defensive skills during his inaugural season, and there's plenty of time for the 23-year-old to turn around his professional career. But his one go-round is all we have for Thibodeau's draft history, which isn't good news for the man in charge of the 'Wolves. 

Score: -66.12
Dating back to 2013, Ryan McDonough has been responsible for acquiring 11 players through the draft. Not a single one has met the expectations established over the last two decades, unless you include Alex Oriakhi (No. 57 in 2013), Bogdan Bogdanovic (No. 27 in 2014) and Alec Brown (No. 50 in 2014). All three have yet to play in the NBA, which technically makes them more valuable than the below-average contributors who typically come from their respective draft slots. 
Of the eight to suit up at the sport's highest level, Marquese Chriss (No. 8 in 2016) has come closest to producing positive results. Especially during the tail end of the 2016-17 campaign, he displayed impressive two-way skills that offered hints at potential stardom. But he was still lost for much of his rookie season and failed to live up to the top-10 billing while he learned the game by being thrown into the fire—a description that also applies to Dragan Bender, who was picked four slots earlier in the 2016 NBA draft. 
But what about Devin Booker (No. 13 in 2015)? 
Yes, the shooting guard has a 70-point game under his belt. He's an offensive force playing with extreme confidence as he continues adjusting to the NBA, and there's a legitimate chance he could blossom into one of the game's better 2s. But the inefficiency that plagued him early in his career and his consistently woeful defense have still made him an overall negative, even if he submitted a positive score in TPA's offensive component this past campaign. 
He gives McDonough the best chance at a legitimate gem from the 11 selections, and there's still a solid chance he won't be the only one. Tyler Ulis (No. 34 in 2016), T.J. Warren (No. 14 in 2014), Alex Len (No. 5 in 2013) and the other bigs could all blossom as they move deeper into their careers. 
But thus far, the results just aren't there, in spite of the enduring potential. 

Score: -26.82
Not much of what Phil Jackson has done with the New York Knicks has worked out. He's handed out an albatross contract to Joakim Noah, failed to find impact free agents capable of pulling the organization out of the dumps and bickered with Carmelo Anthony to a harmful level. The Knicks are still mired in futility, and their reputation is suffering as a result. 
More important for our purposes: He's also failed to make the most of the organization's draft picks. Let's rewind to 2014, when he had his first chance to add young talent. 
That year, the Knicks wound up making three selections. Cleanthony Early (No. 34) spent two seasons missing too many shots for New York and was then waived, while Thanasis Antetokounmpo (No. 51) only made two appearances as a rookie before he was also cut. Louis Labeyrie (No. 57) has yet to appear in the NBA. 
But hitting on second-round selections is notoriously difficult. Maybe Jackson could use two top-20 picks one year later to change his reputation. 
Well, Jerian Grant (No. 19) was shipped to the Chicago Bulls in the unsuccessful Derrick Rose deal after a disappointing rookie season, and Kristaps Porzingis (No. 4) hasn't yet lived up to the billing, through no fault of his own. The Latvian 7-footer still displays enormous potential on both ends, but the Knicks have squandered him by forcing him into roles that aren't the best uses of his franchise-altering talent. 
Porzingis should one day make Jackson's draft-day efforts look much more impressive. The production just hasn't been there yet, as he's accumulated 12.65 TPA in his two-year career—a positive score, but substantially shy of the 17.52 TPA per season the last 20 years have taught us to expect from No. 4 selections. 

Score: -26.13
Rich Cho is a perfect example of the extent to which a single quality player can save a draft track record. 
Overall, the Charlotte Hornets general manager has misfired far too often.
Bismack Biyombo (No. 7 in 2011) and Noah Vonleh (No. 9 in 2014) have turned into massive busts who were hyped up too much as a result of their athleticism-driven upside. P.J. Hairston (No. 26 in 2014) is another first-round failure, while Frank Kaminsky (No. 9 in 2015) and Michael Kidd-Gilchrist (No. 2 in 2012) both have significant flaws pushing them down the same track.
And second-rounders Jeff Taylor (No. 31 in 2012), Jeremy Tyler (No. 39 in 2011) and Semaj Christon (No. 55 in 2014) haven't exactly worked out in the Association. 
Cho's first saving grace is Cody Zeller (No. 4 in 2013), who has provided almost exactly what you should expect from a No. 4 pick through his first four seasons. The big man is also constantly improving, to the point that he's now one of the league's most underrated centers and should start to become a distinct overachiever for his draft slot in 2017-18. 
But this is still all about Kemba Walker (No. 9 in 2011). 
A typical No. 9 pick is expected to produce 8.22 TPA per season, and Walker is currently sitting at 111.2 after making the first All-Star squad of his career. He's a bona fide gem, and it's not like he'll be falling out of the elite ranks anytime soon. 
Even with Walker, the Charlotte general manager has a negative score in our analysis. Remove him from the equation, though, and Cho's mark of minus-53.8 would push him two spots closer to the bottom of these rankings. 

Score: -21.72
All of Vlade Divac's draft picks during his brief tenure in charge of the Sacramento Kings could still work out. 
Willie Cauley-Stein (No. 6 in 2015) provided mixed results during his sophomore season. He backslid on the offensive end as his role changed in the wake of DeMarcus Cousins' departure but continued to thrive on defense. As soon as the Kings pin him down in the right role, he should be able to morph into a two-way asset, even if his only offensive contributions come from him doing a Tristan Thompson imitation. 
The futures of Skal Labissiere (No. 28 in 2016) and Georgios Papagiannis (No. 13 in 2016) are more up in the air, but both showed off their upside during the tail end of 2016-17. The latter even averaged 9.0 points and 4.5 rebounds while shooting 62.1 percent from the field during his final 10 appearances. Maintaining their skills over larger samples, however, is still going to be a tough task. 
Divac's history is so threadbare that those three players are his only to appear in NBA games. Isaiah Cousins (No. 59 in 2016) could change that eventually, but he was waived after the preseason before latching on with the D-League's Reno Bighorns and was never called up during what could've been his rookie season. 
With Nos. 5 and 10 in the 2017 NBA draft, Divac will have a chance to drastically alter the early reputation. But the Kings could go so many different directions with those picks that maintaining any type of confidence in the direction is a tough proposition. 

Score: -17.62
If this were a ranking of general managers' overall skills, Daryl Morey would sit near the top.
The analytical genius has proved a master of trades and free-agency signings that boost his team's success. Acquiring James Harden from the Oklahoma City Thunder and landing Patrick Beverley and Trevor Ariza to provide defense around the bearded guard are proof enough. He's had a vision—maximizing threes and eschewing mid-range jumpers—and done everything in his power to implement it successfully. 
But the draft picks haven't all worked out. 
Clint Capela (No. 25 in 2014) is becoming the biggest exception, and he should take that role over from Patrick Patterson (No. 14 in 2010) as his career continues to progress. Montrezl Harrell (No. 32 in 2015) and Chinanu Onuaku (No. 37 in 2016) have also found enough success in smaller roles to outpace the expectations associated with their second-round slots. 
And that's where the positives end. 
Morey hasn't had enough lofty selections to land any true busts—he's picked no higher than No. 12 during his decade in charge. But players such as Aaron Brooks (No. 26 in 2007), Jeremy Lamb (No. 12 in 2012) and Donatas Motiejunas (No. 20 in 2011) haven't done much to elevate his standing on draft night. 

Score: -15.46
Few current general managers have been plying their trade as long as Ernie Grunfeld, whose first draft-day selection came back in 1991, when he landed Greg Anthony out of UNLV with the No. 12 pick. Anthony never blossomed into anything special. He averaged double-figure points just once in his 11-year career and finished as a thoroughly average contributor by posting 0.3 TPA per season. 
And that set the stage for a career filled with everything from massive steals to gargantuan busts, though Grunfeld has leveled out in positive fashion lately. 
The first few decades brought success stories—most notably, Charlie Ward (No. 26 in 1994) and Michael Redd (No. 43 in 2000). But they had even more memorable failures, like Hubert Davis (No. 20 in 1992), Ronald "Flip" Murray (No. 42 in 2002) and Nick Young (No. 16 in 2007). It's only recently that the narrative has flipped. 
John Wall (No. 1 in 2010) has already surpassed Ward and Redd as the best pick of Grunfeld's career, and the gap should only grow as the athletic floor general continues to rack up All-Star appearances. Bradley Beal (No. 3 in 2012) and Otto Porter Jr. (No. 3 in 2013) also serve as examples of early picks turning into high-quality contributors, and both youngsters are only continuing to improve for the Washington Wizards. 
But unless Grunfeld keeps hitting, both in 2017 and beyond, he won't be able to overcome the up-and-down nature of his early years. 

Score: -12.19
Pat Riley has worked as an executive for the Miami Heat for quite some time now, but we're only including his draft history after general manager Randy Pfund's tenure with the team ended in 2008. That gives Riley nine years to work with, and the results tend to fall into four different categories. 
First, the failures. 
Norris Cole has been disappointing throughout his NBA career. He is Riley's biggest bust despite coming off the board behind 27 other players in 2011. Shabazz Napier (No. 24 in 2014) also falls into this category, though there's a slight chance he could turn his career around. 
Then we have the legitimate successes. 
Riley was responsible for drafting Patrick Beverley (No. 42 in 2009, via a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers), even if the pesky defender played internationally for a few seasons before signing with the Houston Rockets and beginning his NBA career in earnest. Josh Richardson (No. 40 in 2015) is the other acquisition who qualifies here, in spite of his poor shooting as he recovered from injury in 2016-17. 
A handful of players fall in between the two groups by failing to establish themselves as busts or gems after coming off the board in the second round: James Ennis (No. 50 in 2013), Justin Hamilton (No. 45 in 2012), Jarvis Varnado (No. 41 in 2010) and Dexter Pittman (No. 32 in 2010). 
Then there's Justise Winslow (No. 10 in 2015), who needs a category of his own. Shoulder problems prevented the defensive ace from developing on offense during his sophomore season, and he still grades out in slightly underwhelming fashion. But it's far too early to call him a bust, and establishing any sort of rhythm from the perimeter would push him—and Riley's drafting history in general—into the green. 

Score: -10.35
Between his tenures with the Boston Celtics and Memphis Grizzlies, Chris Wallace has been responsible for 22 selections. Only five have been positive, but Jarnell Stokes (No. 35 in 2014) and Jordan Adams (No. 22 in 2014) don't really count as overwhelming successes. 
DeMarre Carroll is the least positive of the three gems, but he's still turned into a three-and-D asset after slipping to the No. 27 pick of the 2009 NBA draft. Though it wasn't until he left the Grizzlies that he broke out, that still counts for our purposes. 
Joe Johnson (No. 10 in 2001) falls into the same category. He was the first pick of Wallace's time with the C's, but he was traded to the Phoenix Suns after just 48 appearances in a green uniform, and it wasn't until he joined the Atlanta Hawks that he became an All-Star.
However, Mike Conley breaks the pattern. 
The No. 4 selection in 2007, Conley has become the feather in Wallace's cap, and he's only continuing to improve now that he's signed the largest deal in NBA history. Though the point guard isn't an All-NBA player, he's a legitimate All-Star contender who can thrive on both ends of the floor by blowing away any and all expectations associated with men selected outside of the top three. 
Still, those three—or five—aren't enough to cancel out all the misfires. 
O.J. Mayo (No. 3 in 2008) and Xavier Henry (No. 12 in 2010) have become massive busts, and the list of underwhelming selections made in Memphis has grown rather lengthy. 

Score: -7.54
If Utah Jazz general manager Dennis Lindsey isn't sending a thank-you note to Rudy Gobert (No. 27 in 2013) every day of the week, he needs to start doing so. Of the 10 selections he's made dating back to 2013, only five have avoided negative scores, and the French 7-footer is the clear outlier in that group. 
Olivier Hanlan (No. 42 in 2015), Marcus Paige (No. 55 in 2016) and Tyrone Wallace (No. 60 in 2016) have stayed out of the red because they've combined to log zero minutes in the Association. Joel Bolomboy (No. 52 in 2016) has only been a slight negative in sparse minutes, which is more than you can typically expect from one of the bottom 10 picks in any draft. 
And that leaves Gobert.
Not only is he a leading Defensive Player of the Year candidate who's developed into one of the premier rim protectors in recent NBA history, but he's also becoming a positive on offense. Improving touch around the basket, self awareness and incredible length have made him an efficient scorer, even if he doesn't have any sort of range that extends beyond the paint. That's far more than most teams ever get from a player who just barely snuck into the first round. 
Remove Gobert from the equation, and the busts carry even more weight. That includes Trey Burke (No. 9 in 2013), Trey Lyles (No. 12 in 2015) and Dante Exum (No. 5 in 2014), although the latter two still have plenty of time to reverse course on their careers. 
Lindsey would sit at No. 23 if Gobert didn't exist. 

Score: -6.04
Since taking charge of the Los Angeles Clippers as both the man leading the front office and the head coach, Doc Rivers hasn't had too many opportunities to make draft-day splashes. He's used only six picks, and none of them have come earlier than No. 25. 
The good news here is that it's hard to disappoint when you're selecting outside the lottery every time; the expectations are already so low that even underachieving second-round picks can only do so much damage to your resume. Plus, even one success story can pay major dividends. 
But there's still bad news for Rivers: He hasn't truly hit on a single pick. 
Technically, Branden Dawson (No. 56 in 2015) and Brice Johnson (No. 25 in 2016) have exceeded their draft-slot expectations by meager amounts. But they haven't cancelled out Reggie Bullock (No. 25 in 2013), C.J. Wilcox (No. 28 in 2014) and Diamond Stone (No. 40 in 2016), all of whom have been distinct negatives during their nondescript NBA careers. 
There just isn't much to say about Rivers' drafting, if only because we don't know what he'd do with a top pick. And we won't find out for a while longer, since the Clippers have no selections in the 2017 NBA draft. 

Score: -5.37
Now that he's traded the top selection of the upcoming draft to the Philadelphia 76ers, the pressure is on Ainge to overcome his relative lack of success in the draft. He'll still have the No. 3 pick this year, and he could potentially have each of the top two choices in 2018 after continuing to stockpile future assets. 
Unfortunately, his history doesn't inspire too much confidence. 
Ainge does have a handful of positive picks throughout his time with the Boston Celtics, but even those can't earn him too much trust. While Rajon Rondo (No. 21 in 2006), Tony Allen (No. 25 in 2004), Delonte West (No. 24 in 2004) and Al Jefferson (No. 15 in 2004) all emerged as great finds, they came more than a decade ago. Lately, the only overachievers he's found are Kelly Olynyk (No. 13 in 2013), Jared Sullinger (No. 21 in 2012), Marcus Smart (No. 6 in 2014), Demetrius Jackson (No. 45 in 2016) and Ben Bentil (No. 51 in 2016), all of whom fail to move the needle by a significant amount. 
Sure, Jaylen Brown (No. 3 in 2016) and Terry Rozier (No. 16 in 2015) could join the club, but the numbers just aren't there yet. In fact, they both join the lengthy list of players who haven't met the expectations associated with their draft slots—many of whom are athletic wings and bigs who just never panned out (James Young and Fab Melo, for example). 
Ainge has made 38 picks for Boston, including the players he didn't technically select but for whom he quickly traded. While 11 have produced positive results, a whopping 23 fall into the opposite category. 

Score: -4.6
Though Donnie Nelson has worked with the Dallas Mavericks since the late 1990s, we're only including his work from 2005 to the present day. That's when his father left his role as head coach and general manager to join the Golden State Warriors, thereby leaving the younger Nelson with even more responsibility. 
What he's done throughout his tenure matters, but his work without his father's counsel is significantly more important. And thus far, it's been a whole lot of players producing expected value, with one deviation on each end. 
The negative outlier is Shane Larkin, who flopped (not literally) and fell out of the league after three seasons of futility after Dallas used the No. 18 pick of the 2013 NBA draft on him. On the flip side, Jae Crowder (No. 34 in 2012) emerged as a second-round steal and parlayed his early success with the Mavericks into a long-term deal with the Boston Celtics. 
Perhaps the overall lack of draft success can be blamed on the franchise's ability to stay relevant. Dallas keeps winning games while Dirk Nowitzki leads the charge, and it hasn't given Nelson a top-20 pick other than Larkin in the last decade. In fact, Justin Anderson (No. 21 in 2015), Jared Cunningham (No. 24 in 2012), Rodrigue Beaubois (No. 25 in 2009) and Maurice Ager (No. 28 in 2006) are the only other first-round picks. 
Fortunately, that will change soon. The Mavericks own the No. 9 selection in the 2017 NBA draft—their first top-10 choice since trading down for Nowitzki (No. 9 in 1998). 

Score: -3.68
Nikola Radicevic (No. 57 in 2016) and Petr Cornelie (No. 53 in 2016) have yet to hit the NBA. And these guys all grade out in the red so far: Malik Beasley (No. 19 in 2016), Juancho Hernangomez (No. 15 in 2016), Erick Green (No. 46 in 2013), Jusuf Nurkic (No. 16 in 2014), Joffrey Lauvergne (No. 55 in 2013), Jamal Murray (No. 7 in 2016) and Emmanuel Mudiay (No. 7 in 2015).
And yet, Tim Connelly is still nearly an overall positive. 
To be clear, we're still focusing on Connelly here, even though Arturas Karnisovas was recently promoted to general manager. That move was made largely to prevent the Milwaukee Bucks from stealing him away to fill their front-office vacancy, and Connelly was correspondingly promoted to president of basketball operations, which will still allow him to oversee the drafting process in the Mile High City.
And that's how it should be, since Gary Harris (No. 19 in 2014) and Nikola Jokic (No. 41 in 2014) nearly push him into the top 10 of our countdown. In fact, Connelly should be a lock for the top 10 by this time next year, if only because Jokic will have another season of functioning like a bona fide superstar under his belt, which will push him even further beyond the realistic expectations for any second-round selection.  
Plus, the overwhelming youth of Connelly's picks means further breakouts are possible. Does anyone want to count out substantial improvement from Murray or Hernangomez? What about Nurkic, now that he's in a more advantageous situation with the Portland Trail Blazers? Even Mudiay could develop into a legitimate asset, since he's still only 21 years old. 
Context always matters, even in an objective analysis. And here, it only helps Connelly's standing. 

Score: -1.42
Masai Ujiri functioned as one of the league's top up-and-coming general managers while he was with the Denver Nuggets. It wasn't just because he swindled other front offices with his trading proclivities; he also unearthed a few draft-day steals in the form of Kenneth Faried (No. 22 in 2011) and Evan Fournier (No. 20 in 2012). 
But Ujiri's success in the draft has been more limited for the Toronto Raptors. In fact, only one of his six picks has exceeded expectations. 
Bruno Caboclo (No. 20 in 2014) could eventually join the club, since the young man who was famously two years away from being two years away is now only zero years away from being one year away. DeAndre Daniels (No. 37 in 2014) still hasn't played in an NBA game, and he's instead been suiting up for the Perth Wildcats, the D-League's Raptors 905 and Dinamica Mantova.
That leaves Delon Wright (No. 20 in 2015), Norman Powell (No. 46 in 2015), Jakob Poeltl (No. 9 in 2016) and Pascal Siakam (No. 27 in 2016), and it's probably good news that you have no idea which one is the positive. All of them have looked like quality finds at times, even if inconsistency has plagued each prospect. Ruling out strong futures from any member of that youthful quartet is a mistake, but Wright is the man in the green thus far. 
Faried's success is still carrying Ujiri. That alone shouldn't remain true for long, making it all the more likely that he continues to climb up the ranks of drafting general managers. 

Score: 3.42
And thus we come to the first of the nine general managers whose total score is positive. 
Kevin Pritchard hasn't yet made a single pick for the Indiana Pacers. He joined the organization in 2011 as the director of player personnel and was promoted to general manager in 2012 to replace David Morway, but he still reported to Larry Bird. Now that the Hall of Famer has resigned, he's functioning both as the general manager and president of basketball operations, which leaves him as the clear-cut leader of the front office.
Complicated, right?
But Pritchard does have some history with the Portland Trail Blazers from which we can draw. And even though he was responsible for picking Greg Oden over Kevin Durant with the No. 1 pick in 2007, he has three steals that cancel out all of the negatives. 
First comes Josh McRoberts, who he found with the No. 37 selection that same year. The big man blossomed into a skilled center capable of dazzling defenders with his passing chops and floor-spacing habits, and that's far more than most second-round picks typically provide. Patty Mills (No. 55 in 2009) qualifies as an even bigger gem, but Nicolas Batum (No. 25 in 2008, via a trade with the Houston Rockets) is the crown jewel. 
There are still plenty of busts, as the list goes well beyond Oden to include Brandon Rush (No. 13 in 2008), Luke Babbitt (No. 16 in 2010), Omer Asik (No. 36 in 2008), Dante Cunningham (No. 33 in 2009) and Elliot Williams (No. 22 in 2010). But the successes are still just enough to make Pritchard's overall resume a positive one, and he'll now look to build upon that with the 18th and 47th selections in the 2017 NBA draft. 

Score: 5.05
Let's slowly travel back in time. 
During the 2016 NBA draft, the New Orleans Pelicans landed Cheick Diallo (No. 33) and Buddy Hield (No. 6). Neither was particularly impressive throughout their rookie seasons, even if the latter started to break out on the offensive end once he was traded to the Sacramento Kings in a package that netted DeMarcus Cousins. 
General manager Dell Demps didn't end up acquiring any rookies in 2015 or 2014, so we have to go to 2013 next. It was then that he selected Nerlens Noel and shipped him to the Philadelphia 76ers for Jrue Holiday, so he doesn't count for our purposes. Only Pierre Jackson (No. 42) does, and the diminutive point guard has provided almost exactly what was expected of him during his one NBA season, which didn't come until 2016-17 with the Dallas Mavericks and lasted for only eight games.
As a result, we have to look at Demps' first season calling the draft-day shots to get a true idea of what he's done during the selection process.
He added Darius Miller (No. 46 in 2012) and watched as he became a slightly underwhelming second-round prospect, but that came after drafting Austin Rivers at No. 10. The former Duke standout has been a significant bust, though he still can't cancel out the equity Demps earned from making Anthony Davis 2012's first overall pick.
Davis has outshined most No. 1 selections, even though he's still moving toward his prime, and his continued success will just keep making Demps look even better. But remove him from the equation, and the other five picks made by the general manager in question would drag him all the way down to No. 23 in these rankings. 

Score: 8.49
Assessing Bryan Colangelo's draft history is a difficult task, if only because he's operated for so many different teams over such a long period of time.
He's made just three selections thus far for the Philadelphia 76ers, and figuring out whether Ben Simmons (No. 1 in 2016), Timothe Luwawu-Cabarrot (No. 24 in 2016) and Furkan Korkmaz (No. 26 in 2016) are positives or negatives is currently impossible, given that they've logged a combined 69 appearances. Fortunately, Markelle Fultz will soon make the trend more clear, as Colangelo moved to acquire the No. 1 pick from the Boston Celtics with the Washington floor general in mind. 
Prior to moving Philadelphia out of the Sam Hinkie era, Colangelo was with the Toronto Raptors. There, his work was overwhelmingly negative. Even though Ed Davis (No. 13 in 2010) and P.J. Tucker (No. 35 in 2006) were quality finds, they couldn't come close to canceling out the magnitude of busts such as Andrea Bargnani (No. 1 in 2006), Jonas Valanciunas (No. 5 in 2011) and Terrence Ross (No. 8 in 2012). Valanciunas might not seem like a bust, but his extreme lack of offensive versatility has limited his value ever since he entered the league.
DeMar DeRozan (No. 9 in 2009) also grades out as a negative thanks to his shoddy defense, but that's changing as he continues to refine his scoring skills. 
It's actually Colangelo's distant past with the Phoenix Suns that pulls him closer to the top of these rankings. 
Sure, he still managed to find a number of busts: Pat Garrity (No. 19 in 1998), Jake Tsakalidis (No. 25 in 2000), Chris Carr (No. 56 in 1995) and Casey Jacobsen (No. 22 in 2002) lead the pack. But the gems he unearthed are far more special. Shawn Marion (No. 9 in 1999) and Steve Nash (No. 15 in 1996) will go down as some of the greatest picks in recent history, while it's hard to besmirch Michael Finley (No. 21 in 1995), Wesley Person (No. 23 in 1994), Amar'e Stoudemire (No. 9 in 2002) or Stephen Jackson (No. 42 in 1997). 
And yet, despite all the history, it's still what's yet to come with the Sixers that will determine whether his resume is ultimately positive or negative. 

Score: 10.16
Recent picks haven't worked out too well for Gar Forman. 
The Chicago Bulls general manager has misfired on Doug McDermott (No. 11 in 2014), watched as Tony Snell (No. 20 in 2013) needed a change in scenery to start breaking out and failed to capitalize on the upside of Bobby Portis (No. 22 in 2015). And that's saying nothing of Marquis Teague (No. 29 in 2012), who would look like an even bigger bust if he'd stuck around in the NBA for more than two seasons of sub-standard play. 
But Forman can still point to his massive successes from early on in his Windy City career. 
James Johnson (No. 16 in 2009) was a strong pick outside the lottery, even if the Wake Forest product never broke out with the Bulls. It wasn't until his time with the Toronto Raptors (the first stint) that he became a bona fide rotational piece, and he's now tracking toward the impact of a legitimate star with the Miami Heat.
Nikola Mirotic (No. 23 in 2011) is another success, but no one can top Jimmy Butler (No. 30 in 2011).
The final selection of the first round, based on the last 20 years of data, is expected to produce minus-5.6 TPA per season—settling in as a league-average player who skews slightly toward the negative. Butler sat at minus-8.66 during his rookie season, but he's improved almost every year, to the point that he logged 384.82 TPA in 2016-17, giving him the league's No. 6 mark, per NBA Math. 
He alone drastically improves Forman's resume, and he'll only continue to do so as he keeps playing at a superstar level. 

Score: 16.99
Considering he's made a combined 16 selections for the Portland Trail Blazers and Los Angeles Clippers, it's rather impressive that Neil Olshey doesn't have a single earth-shattering bust on his record. The worst it gets is Meyers Leonard (No. 11 in 2012), who displayed enough potential while earning minutes early in his Rip City career that he signed a gaudy extension for four years and $41 million. 
After that comes Al-Farouq Aminu (No. 8 in 2010), Will Barton (No. 40 in 2012) and Allen Crabbe (No. 31 in 2013), all of whom have become solid role players capable of thriving in at least one facet of the game. 
The busts just don't exist. But the quality finds certainly do. 
They don't yet include C.J. McCollum (No. 10 in 2013), whose work for the Blazers in recent years hasn't yet cancelled out the shooting inefficiency and defensive porosity from his early go-rounds. But they do feature Eric Bledsoe (No. 18 in 2010) and Damian Lillard (No. 6 in 2012), both of whom have developed into some of the NBA's finest floor generals. Lillard, in particular, has shattered the expectations, and he should keep doing so as he moves toward his prime. 
Olshey will have more chances to add to the coffers with three selections in the first round of the 2017 NBA draft, but he could trade those picks for established contributors and still keep trending upward. Even his misfires have become late-blooming players who are still contributing at the sport's highest level. All he's lacking is that second-round stud on whom everyone regrets passing. 

Score: 30.28
There are three standout elements of R.C. Buford's draft history, and it's not clear which is most impressive. 
Option No. 1: Of the 24 picks he's made since replacing Gregg Popovich as the San Antonio Spurs general manager in 2002, a staggering 10 are still stashed outside the NBA and have yet to appear in a single game. The full list is comprised of Sergei Karaulov (No. 57 in 2004), Viktor Sanikidze (No. 42 in 2004), Ryan Richards (No. 49 in 2010), Adam Hanga (No. 59 in 2011), Marcus Denmon (No. 59 in 2012), Livio Jean-Charles (No. 28 in 2013), Deshaun Thomas (No. 58 in 2013), Nemanja Dangubic (No. 54 in 2014), Nikola Milutinov (No. 26 in 2015) and Cady Lalanne (No. 55 in 2015). 
Option No. 2: Only three selections in well over a decade have turned into legitimate busts. Beno Udrih (No. 28 in 2004) never developed into anything more than a career backup while sticking around for 13 seasons, while Marcus Williams (No. 33 in 2007) and James Anderson (No. 20 in 2010) failed to become meaningful NBA players. 
Option No. 3: Buford found four legitimate steals in Kawhi Leonard (No. 15 in 2011), George Hill (No. 26 in 2008), Tiago Splitter (No. 28 in 2007) and DeJuan Blair (No. 37 in 2009). Soon, Kyle Anderson (No. 30 in 2014) and Davis Bertans (No. 42 in 2011) could be added into that category. 
Let's be real: The third is probably the best of the bunch. 
But this is the Spurs we're talking about. There's no reason to limit their organizational impressiveness to just one area. 

Score: 46.89
It's been a tale of two tenures for Jeff Bower. 
He hasn't yet landed on a gem with the Detroit Pistons, even if Michael Gbinije (No. 49 in 2016) slightly exceeded the minimal expectations of his rookie season. Henry Ellenson (No. 18 in 2016) hasn't done anything of note yet, and the same is true of Spencer Dinwiddie (No. 38 in 2014) and Darrun Hilliard (No. 38 in 2015). 
Thus far, Stanley Johnson (No. 8 in 2015) is the shiniest prospect. But while the young forward has shown impressive defensive tendencies, the lack of a consistent jumper has curtailed his overall value and prevented him from becoming anything more than a high-upside backup in the Motor City. He's started just seven games during his first two seasons, and that doesn't figure to change if he can't shoot better than 29.2 percent from beyond the arc. 
Bower's time with the New Orleans Hornets wasn't much better. He was responsible for drafting 10 players, and nine of them failed to live up to the expectations associated with their slots.
So, how can he rank behind only two other general managers? 
Draft samples are almost always small, since the men in charge aren't typically making more than a few selections during any given year. One player can have a monumental impact, and that one player for Bower is his first pick: Chris Paul (No. 4 in 2005), whose immense production throughout his career will make him one of the most successful investments in NBA history. 
Without Paul, Bower's score would be minus-20.02, which would leaves him sitting just ahead of Vlade Divac at No. 19. With Paul, the story is obviously just a bit different. 

Score: 51.28
Bob Myers has made some fantastic moves since his 2012 promotion to general manager from his apprenticeship under Larry Riley. He elected not to trade Klay Thompson for Kevin Love, back when doing so wasn't an obvious decision. He landed Kevin Durant in free agency. He acquired Andre Iguodala and a number of other key role players who helped the organization win two titles in three years. 
And, most relevant to our purposes, he drafted Draymond Green (No. 35 in 2012). 
"Draymond, look at his resume," Myers said after the draft, per MLive.com's Graham Couch. "He went to one of the top colleges in the country and all he did was produce and win. Sitting next to me here are three guys that win. That's what we need to do. Winning, in my opinion and in our group's opinion, is a skill. These players all have that skill."
He was right. Green has developed into one of the league's 10 best players, as well as (arguably) its most ferocious and versatile defender. He's blown away the expectations associated with the No. 35 pick, thereby canceling out—and then some—the slight negatives that came with drafting Harrison Barnes (No. 7 in 2012), Festus Ezeli (No. 30 in 2012) and Ognjen Kuzmic (No. 52 in 2012). 
None of those three are distinct busts; they're just not huge positives, either. In fact, everyone else Myers has added through the draft has had a nondescript impact on his overall score, leaving Green's contributions carrying even more weight and pushing him near the pinnacle of the drafter rankings. 

Score: 87.84
That picture really isn't photoshopped. It may be hard to remember now, but Serge Ibaka, Russell Westbrook, James Harden and Kevin Durant once suited up together for the Oklahoma City Thunder. 
And general manager Sam Presti drafted them all. 
Durant was the first pick of his OKC tenure, directly after the Portland Trail Blazers used the 2007 top selection on Greg Oden. He added Westbrook (No. 4 in 2008) and Ibaka (No. 24) one year later, then picked Harden (No. 3) out of Arizona State in 2009. Those four alone have given him a rather lengthy leash, but they're not even his only successes. 
We can't forget about Steven Adams (No. 12 in 2013), Andre Roberson (No. 26 in 2013) or Reggie Jackson (No. 24 in 2011), even if the last of those three has fallen prey to a downward-spiraling reputation as he fights back from injuries with the Detroit Pistons. So while Presti hasn't completely avoided busts—Jeff Green (No. 5 in 2007) and Byron Mullens (No. 24 in 2009) chief among them—he's found so many high-quality players that those missteps are easily mitigated. 
Quite frankly, no one comes close to producing a resume this stellar. Drafting NBA players isn't exactly a science; it's more of a crapshoot, which makes maintaining a positive score for an entire decade all the more impressive. 
Plus, three of his former selections are still factoring into MVP races. If Durant, Westbrook and Harden continue to play at their current levels—not even their 2016-17 levels, but their career-average levels through 2016-17—for just three more years, he has a legitimate chance to double the score of every other general manager throughout the Association. 
Adam Fromal covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @fromal09.
Unless otherwise indicated, all stats from Basketball Reference, NBA.com, ESPN.com or NBA Math.

The Cleveland Cavaliers announced Monday they mutually agreed not to extend general manager David Griffin's contract, prompting a response from superstar LeBron James:
If no one appreciated you Griff I did, and hopefully all the people of Cleveland! Thanks for what u did for the team for 3 yrs! We got us 1🏆
James acknowledged the championship he strived for when he returned to Cleveland after his stint with the Miami Heat and expressed his appreciation for the general manager's role in building a team that reached three straight NBA Finals.
Griffin also discussed the Cavaliers' recent success in his statement following Monday's news, although—unlike James—he mentioned his appreciation for team owner Dan Gilbert, per Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com:
Statement from David Griffin: s://t.co/2a7aJdIUVH
McMenamin reported the general manager removed himself from consideration for keeping his job "when it became clear his vision" didn't sync with Gilbert's.
It should come as little surprise James offered his support for Griffin in the aftermath. He suggested the general manager should receive an extension back in April, per McMenamin:
It makes no sense why he shouldn't get an extension. He's pulled every move—he's tried to make every move happen—to better this team to be able to compete for a championship. So we wouldn't be in this position, obviously, without him and without the guys that are here—from the coaching staff to the players to Griff. He's been a big piece of it.
Anything that happens within the Cleveland organization is going to be framed around James' reaction considering he's the team's best player and one of the greatest players in NBA history. There is also his future to consider since he has a player option in 2018.
Bleacher Report's Howard Beck said James was "disappointed" Griffin was out and "concerned" with what it means going forward for the team. Brian Windhorst of ESPN.com reported Gilbert didn't consult James about the decision, while Ryen Russillo of ESPN said the King's camp was surprised by the move.
According to David Aldridge of NBA.com, James is "keeping [an] open mind" regarding the Cavaliers' future steps but is "very serious about structure."
Griffin was just the first shoe to drop in an offseason sure to feature a number of intriguing moves and rumors regarding the three-time defending Eastern Conference champions after a convincing NBA Finals loss to the Golden State Warriors.
Aldridge noted assistant general manager Trent Redden is also out and called it a surprise and "total house cleaning."
On the player front, Sam Amico of Fox Sports Ohio said the team is exploring the idea of trading Kevin Love. Amico also noted a handful of teams have reached out about Kyrie Irving's availability, a player Griffin was unwilling to trade. However, "it's unclear where owner Dan Gilbert stands" with the point guard's future, Amico wrote.
As for James, it is too early to speculate whether the front office's failure to reach an agreement with Griffin will impact his eventual decision to stay with the team, but it is clear he appreciated the general manager.

Kyle Lowry reportedly has "zero interest" in returning to the Toronto Raptors.
On Monday, Bruce Arthur of the Toronto Star cited multiple league sources who said the free agent "has been grumbling about dissatisfaction with the Raptors for months." Arthur noted other teams were told the zero interest tidbit in May even if Toronto offered him a maximum five-year deal.
Soon after the report was released, Lowry seemingly responded on Twitter:
I dont do this ever but :
Don't believe what you hear !! Especially if it didn't come from me, and that bs FOR SURE didn't come from me..GN
Lowry scored a career-high 22.4 points per game in 2016-17, but there are other concerns for any team interested in him this offseason.
He played just 60 contests as he dealt with injuries and missed the final two games of Toronto's second-round playoff loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers. What's more, he will turn 32 years old during the 2017-18 campaign and is likely on the back half of his prime.
As far as the chances Lowry returns to Toronto, Arthur noted the San Antonio Spurs are apparently not interested in the guard, while the Philadelphia 76ers are eyeing Markelle Fultz as their point guard of the future.
"Lowry's possible destinations are dwindling, if he wants to win and get paid," Arthur wrote, suggesting the two sides could eventually come to an agreement despite previous rumblings.
While Toronto lost to the Cavaliers for the second straight postseason, LeBron James has a player option in 2018, and Sam Amico of Amico Hoops reported they are exploring trades of Kevin Love. Amico also reported several teams reached out to Cleveland regarding Kyrie Irving's availability.
The Cavaliers may not be the team to beat in the East for long, and the Raptors could challenge for an NBA Finals spot in the near future if they come to terms with Lowry and maintain their core.
However, that would require more than zero interest from the point guard's perspective.

Cleveland Cavaliers superstars Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love could potentially be on the move this offseason.
Sam Amico of Amico Hoops reported Monday former general manager David Griffin "had been exploring several trades" involving Love. Although the Cavs announced Griffin will not return as general manager, Amico clarified the talks are still ongoing.
Amico also reported several teams reached out to Cleveland regarding Irving, whom "Griffin was unwilling to move." However, Amico said it is unclear whether owner Dan Gilbert is as adamant about keeping the point guard.
Irving and Love were critical members of Cleveland's three straight runs to the NBA Finals, and Irving will forever be a Cavaliers legend because of his Game 7 winning shot in the 2016 NBA Finals. However, the team's championship window is limited considering LeBron James will turn 33 years old during the 2017-18 campaign and has a player option for 2018-19.
The difference between the Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors was readily apparent when Golden State steamrolled its way to a five-game win in the 2017 Finals. What's more, it scored 121.6 points per game in the series, consistently exposing a lackluster Cleveland defense.
While Love and Irving are All-Star-caliber players, moving one or both could improve the team's defense.
Opponents shot 4.3 percent better than their normal averages within six feet when Love guarded them in 2016-17, and they shot 5.2 percent better overall and 5.9 percent better from three-point range when Irving defended them, per NBA.com.
Perhaps with defense in mind, Marc Stein of ESPN reported Cleveland was working on multi-team trades involving Jimmy Butler. Amico previously reported the Cavaliers were talking to the Indiana Pacers about Paul George.
Butler and George are each three-time members of an NBA All-Defensive team and would help Cleveland make up ground on the Warriors on that end of the floor.
The Cavaliers figure to be one of the busiest teams this offseason as they strive to catch Golden State before a potential fourth straight Finals showdown, and it is now at least possible Love or Irving could be involved in a move.

Chris Granger announced Monday he has stepped down as president of the Sacramento Kings.
The Sacramento Bee's Ailene Voisin shared a statement from Granger explaining his decision:
"I just feel it's time. I'm not leaving for another job. There is nothing imminent. But I want to do something else, to be challenged in a position working with multiple sports, maybe the Olympics, something with a bigger platform. With the arena, this job will be about selling corporate sponsorships, and I just think there's one more big move in me. Plus, my girls are entering middle school, so this seems like the right time."
Akis Yerocostas and Greg Wissinger of SBNation's Sactown Royalty offered their praise of Granger:
Wow. Big loss for Sacramento. @cgkings was LeBron of business ops. s://t.co/Zc3WqdF8lL
It's difficult to explain how important, influential, and great @cgkings has been for the Kings and Sacramento.
While the Kings have largely been a mess from a front office perspective, Granger ensured the franchise took care of business on the commercial end.
When he was hired in 2013, the Kings had recently committed to staying in Sacramento but remained in need of a new arena. In October 2014, the organization and city of Sacramento broke ground for Golden 1 Center, and the venue was completed two years later.
Vivek Ranadive's ownership group purchased a controlling stake in the Kings in June 2013, with the entire franchise valued at $534 million. Forbes estimated the Kings to be worth $1.075 billion in February.
Granger's work didn't get the Kings any closer to winning an NBA title, but he earns a lot of credit for ensuring their financial future is on stable footing. He'll leave big shoes to fill for his eventual replacement.

The Washington Wizards reportedly have their eyes on Indiana Pacers star Paul George.
On Monday, David Aldridge of NBA.com reported "the Wizards are looking for a way to make a George deal happen," although he noted they will not trade Bradley Beal because part of the appeal of Washington for George would be playing alongside him and John Wall.
Aldridge noted Otto Porter could be a trade chip in a potential deal but explained the small forward would "lose tens of millions of dollars" in a sign-and-trade under the new CBA.
This comes after Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Sunday that George told the Pacers he plans on leaving in the summer of 2018 and prefers to play for his hometown Los Angeles Lakers. The desire to play in Los Angeles makes trading for George all the more risky from Washington's perspective because he could simply leave after a season.
However, a trio of George, Wall and Beal would put the Wizards firmly on the short list of NBA title contenders next season. They just reached the second round of the NBA playoffs without George and battled the Eastern Conference No. 1-seeded Boston Celtics in a seven-game thriller.
George would provide Washington another go-to option when opposing defenses focus on the Wall and Beal backcourt, and he could also guard some of the league's best players—such as LeBron James—in a playoff series as a three-time member of an All-Defensive team.
Even if George ultimately opted out of his contract and left, his presence would help the Wizards close the gap with the Cleveland Cavaliers in the East for the 2017-18 campaign.

While many fans joked that every team decision went through him for approval, LeBron James was apparently kept in the dark about the impending departure of Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin.
ESPN's Ryen Russillo reported James' camp was "surprised" to see the Cavs let Griffin go, while colleague Brian Windhorst said Gilbert didn't consult with James at all before making the decision.
James is "disappointed" at the news and is "concerned" about what this means for the future of the Cavaliers, a source told Bleacher Report's Howard Beck. James tweeted a thank you to Griffin while seemingly taking a shot at Cavs ownership:
If no one appreciated you Griff I did, and hopefully all the people of Cleveland! Thanks for what u did for the team for 3 yrs! We got us 1🏆
Team owner Dan Gilbert confirmed the Cavaliers aren't offering an extension to Griffin's contract, which expires June 30.
James publicly offered his endorsement of Griffin in April.
"It makes no sense why he shouldn't get an extension," James said of Griffin, per ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin. "He's pulled every move—he's tried to make every move happen—to better this team to be able to compete for a championship. So we wouldn't be in this position, obviously, without him and without the guys that are here—from the coaching staff to the players to Griff. He's been a big piece of it."
Griffin's departure comes at a time when it appears LeBron could actually leave Cleveland for a second time, and Turner Sports analyst David Aldridge tweeted that is one of a few pressing issues for the team:
But it nonetheless leaves the franchise in limbo at the worst possible time: w LeBron a free agent in ’18 &amp; team needing roster upgrade now.
James only has one more guaranteed year left on his current deal. The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski (h/t Pro Basketball Talk's Dan Feldman) reported the four-time MVP would strongly consider signing with the Los Angeles Lakers or Los Angeles Clippers.
Wojnarowski posited that helping the Cavaliers win a title in 2016 gives James a little more freedom to explore opportunities outside Cleveland if he feels that's what's best for his career.
Taking that into consideration, letting Griffin go is a major risk for the Cavs, and keeping James out of the loop may jeopardize the team's chances of re-signing him a year from now.

Chauncey Billups may be moving from the ESPN studios to an NBA front office.
The Cleveland Cavaliers are moving on from general manager David Griffin, whose contract expires at the end of the month. Daryl Ruiter of 92.3 The Fan shared a statement from team owner Dan Gilbert confirming the move:
Statement from Dan Gilbert on allowing the architect of an NBA championship &amp; 3x conference championship team leave s://t.co/RhbceGlhI6
According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, the Cavs may target Billups to help fill the void after Griffin's departure. Wojnarowski reported Billups would become president of basketball operations and assist in the hiring of a new general manager, adding Billups would be Cleveland's No. 1 basketball executive. "Billups would hire a general manager with the day-to-day front office experience that he doesn’t have on his resume," added Wojnarowski. 
Gilbert will meet with Billups on Tuesday, per ESPN's Brian Windhorst.
According to Joe Vardon of Cleveland.com, Billups worked "behind the scenes" to get in front of Cleveland's brass during Games 3 and 4 of the NBA Finals.
Billups played 17 years in the NBA, retiring after the 2013-14 season. He joined ESPN as an analyst shortly thereafter.
ESPN.com's Chris Haynes reported in May the Atlanta Hawks planned to interview Billups for their vacant GM post. They ultimately hired Travis Schlenk.
Veteran NBA reporter Marc Stein noted how the search for a new general manager comes at a particularly tricky time for the Cavaliers:
League sources say the Cavs, until this wild turn, spent much of the day trying to assemble a Jimmy Butler trade. Unclear what happens now.
It's surprising the Cavs let Griffin go and then put Billups atop their wishlist. Not only would Billups have the difficult task of maintaining the level of success Griffin helped to build, he'd also have to find a way to upgrade the roster despite having virtually no financial flexibility.
Since LeBron James returned to the team in 2014, some fans have understated Griffin's role in building the Cavaliers into a title contender. He excelled at making the incremental moves necessary to take Cleveland to the championship threshold, be it trading Dion Waiters for JR Smith and Iman Shumpert or getting Channing Frye for next to nothing.
Dysfunction was a hallmark of the Cavaliers in the years after James left for the Miami Heat. Replacing the architect of a championship-winning team with a former player with no front office experience would arguably harken back to that era.

The man who helped orchestrate the city of Cleveland's first championship in 52 years is not returning.
On Monday, the Cleveland Cavaliers announced David Griffin will not return to his position as general manager. David Aldridge of NBA.com shared the Cavaliers' statement:
"The Cleveland Cavaliers and its General Manager, David Griffin, have mutually decided not to extend David's current contract, which ends June 30, 2017.
"On behalf of the entire organization, I would like to thank Griff for his leadership and many contributions during his time here, including most recently, his role in the franchise’s first NBA Championship.
"We have no announcement at this time related to new leadership of the Cavaliers basketball operations group, but we are confident our current front office will continue to aggressively explore and pursue opportunities to improve our team in the weeks ahead."
Griffin would release a statement on the news, per Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com:
Statement from David Griffin: s://t.co/2a7aJdIUVH
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported former NBA player and current ESPN analyst Chauncey Billups is a potential candidate for the opening. Wojnarowski cited a source who said Cleveland and Griffin "just couldn't agree on [the] future," while McMenamin said "Griffin removed himself from consideration when it became clear his vision for CLE didn't match [owner Dan] Gilbert's."
McMenamin reported assistant GM Koby Altman is currently handling trade phone calls for the Cavs.
Jeff Zillgitt of USA Today reported vice president of basketball operations Trent Redden also won't be back when his contract expires at the end of June. Aldridge was shocked by the decision to let Redden go:
What is very surprising: Cavs assistant GM Trent Redden, very highly respected around the league, is also out. Wow. Total house cleaning.
This come after McMenamin wrote in April the team and Griffin failed to come to an agreement before the 2016-17 season.
However, this also comes after Sam Amico of Amico Hoops reported in May that Gilbert was preparing to offer Griffin "a substantial contract and title to remain with the team."
McMenamin shared one player's reaction:
Just reached out to a Cavs player for a response about the David Griffin departure. His response: "Griff is leaving?"
Meanwhile, a source told ESPN's Ryen Russillo that LeBron James' camp "was surprised" that Griffin won't return.
While he will no longer serve as the general manager, Griffin's tenure can only be classified as a success, and Wojnarowski added there will be "multiple teams pursuing him for significant money in next round of GM openings."
He became Cleveland's acting GM in 2014 when Chris Grant was dismissed and was eventually given the full-time position. He was there when James returned after his stint with the Miami Heat and also traded for Kevin Love and made a number of other moves that helped the Cavaliers beat the Golden State Warriors in the 2016 NBA Finals and reach the Finals again this year.
He earned the endorsement of James in the process, per McMenamin:
"It makes no sense why he shouldn't get an extension. He's pulled every move—he's tried to make every move happen—to better this team to be able to compete for a championship. So we wouldn't be in this position, obviously, without him and without the guys that are here—from the coaching staff to the players to Griff. He's been a big piece of it."
Griffin re-signed or dished out contract extensions to James, Love, JR Smith, Tristan Thompson, Iman Shumpert and Richard Jefferson in the offseasons of 2015 and '16, per McMenamin. In doing so, the Cavs accumulated the highest payroll in the NBA in 2016-17—often the price a franchise pays to be in consistent contention for a title.
He built a championship core around one of the best players in NBA history but was not rewarded for his efforts this offseason.
Cleveland still looks primed to compete in the immediate future with James, Kyrie Irving, Love and a formidable surrounding cast, but the general manager who put them all together won't be there for the next chapter.

Jerry West helped build the Golden State Warriors into a champion during his six years as a special consultant and will look to do the same with the Los Angeles Clippers in what he called "the last adventure of my life."
West's comment came as he was introduced to the media Monday as a Clippers consultant, per Bill Oram of the Southern California News Group.
West also mentioned Clippers owner Steve Ballmer as a primary reason the team will eventually reach the next level, via Chris Walder of the Score: "They want to try and get to a different level, and I promise you the thing that's going to allow them to get to the next level is Steve Ballmer and his presence."
West will receive between $4-5 million annually from the Clippers, per Sam Amick of USA Today, who added West's ability to possibly land LeBron James as a free agent in 2018 was a "significant factor" for Ballmer.
The 79-year-old West will look to guide Los Angeles to the same heights as the Warriors and should provide critical help in those efforts if his work with Golden State is any indication. Warriors owner Joe Lacob called West "an incredible asset to our organization" in a statement relayed by Amick:
Statement from Warriors owner Joe Lacob on the departure of Jerry West, who has been in deep talks with the Clippers s://t.co/aN9muYGy28
He heads to Los Angeles in what will be a crucial summer with Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and JJ Redick all set to become free agents. Whether the team re-signs them, moves on or makes trades will set the course for its future.
West could play a role in either convincing them to stay or pitching other free agents for the Clippers. Chris Broussard of ESPN.com reported in July 2016 West spoke to Kevin Durant via telephone when Golden State was still pursuing the NBA Finals MVP in free agency.
Durant ultimately came to the Warriors and won a ring, which West called "probably the greatest thrill of my life" after the free-agent signee faced so much criticism, per Jovan Buha of ESPN.
West will be looking to create similar thrills with the Clippers.

While he'd represent a significant upgrade to their roster, the Los Angeles Lakers reportedly aren't willing to part with their best assets in order to acquire Paul George. 
The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported on his podcast (via RealGM) the Lakers are steadfast in their desire to keep Brandon Ingram and the No. 2 overall pick in the 2017 draft this offseason.
Wojnarowski reported George informed the Indiana Pacers he won't re-sign with the team in 2018 and that he prefers to play with the Lakers in the future. As a result, many fans are formulating trades that could see George move to Los Angeles.
ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne first reported of the Lakers' reluctance to trade "any of their young assets."
Lakers Nation's Ryan Ward speculated Julius Randle could be included in the deal:
If Lakers were ready to trade Julius Randle to move up 1 spot for Fultz, better believe they’re already on the phone with Indiana for George
Bleacher Report's Eric Pincus added Jordan Clarkson as a possibility as well, noting Indiana could hold out for more:
If you have been reading my words on Bleacher, the main expendable piece the Lakers can offer for George is Clarkson, may not be enough
The Pacers don't have much leverage at the moment. The rest of the NBA is assuming George is out the door in a year, so Indiana can't demand a king's ransom for the four-time All-Star. Otherwise, general managers will just wait and take their chances on signing George in free agency.
The Lakers are also uniquely poised in that they've been identified as a favored landing spot for George. This is the time for Los Angeles to play hardball with Indiana.
How the Lakers handle the George trade negotiations will help set the tone for general manager Rob Pelinka as he embarks on his first full season with the team.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
Looking for the best NBA coverage around? Bleacher Report is the go-to destination. B/R's NBA coverage delivers must-see hardwood analysis on a daily basis.
You've never been so ready for some basketball.

Since he has two more guaranteed years remaining on his current deal, the time may never be better for the Chicago Bulls to trade Jimmy Butler, and the team is reportedly actively shopping the three-time All-Star.
According to ESPN.com's Marc Stein, the Cleveland Cavaliers are working on potential trade proposals. Cleveland would include Kevin Love in the trade and attempt to find a third team to provide the assets necessary to complete the deal.
CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill reported the Boston Celtics and Phoenix Suns are showing interest, with The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski throwing the Minnesota Timberwolves into the mix as well.
Paul George is another star on the trade market, with Wojnarowski reporting Sunday George told the Indiana Pacers he doesn't intend on re-signing with the team when he's eligible to enter free agency in 2018.
Butler is arguably the better option of the two. Not only is he signed for an extra season, he possesses a better all-around offensive game than George. The Bulls wing averaged 23.9 points, 6.2 rebounds and 5.5 assists a game in 2016-17, compared to 23.7 points, 6.6 rebounds and 3.3 assists for George.
The Bulls also allowed 3.7 more points per 100 possessions when Butler was off the court, per NBA.com.
For the Cavaliers, Butler's defense would potentially help the team bridge the gap with the Golden State Warriors. As a 37 percent career shooter from three-point range, however, going with Butler would likely sacrifice some of the spacing Love provides the Cavs.
The Celtics, meanwhile, need another star of Butler's caliber in order to compete with the Cavaliers for Eastern Conference supremacy. Having Butler on the roster almost certainly wouldn't have gotten Boston past Cleveland in this year's postseason, but the absence of another proven scorer alongside Isaiah Thomas was glaring.
The calculus for the Suns and Timberwolves is roughly the same.
After winning 47 combined games the last two years, Phoenix needs significant upgrades in order to climb into the top eight in the Western Conference. Minnesota has a lot of promising young pieces on its roster, and acquiring Butler would help the franchise take the next stage in its development.
More teams could join the Butler sweepstakes, making it increasingly likely he leaves the Windy City this summer. 

The Cleveland Cavaliers, Boston Celtics, Minnesota Timberwolves and Phoenix Suns are either targeting or have interest in a potential Jimmy Butler trade as the offseason heats up.
Marc Stein of ESPN reported the Cavaliers are working on potential multi-team trades, while Vincent Goodwill of CSN Chicago reported the Celtics are "lurking" with the No. 3 overall draft pick.
Stein noted that Cleveland would "obviously have to rope in at least one more team to provide the assets" to land Butler, but are "trying."
These reports came on the heels of Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical's report the Timberwolves had made "preliminary contact" with the Bulls regarding Butler. Wojnarowski clarified Chicago's asking price "remains elevated," but he noted "Minnesota has assets and interest."
K.C. Johnson of the Chicago Tribune reported the Suns news, citing a source, saying they were a "team to watch." Goodwill framed their interest as "due diligence."
There is a clear connection with the Timberwolves because head coach Tom Thibodeau was Butler's head coach in Chicago for four seasons. The Bulls finished with a winning record all four years as Thibodeau's defensive-oriented approach worked well with the two-way star.
A trade for Butler would also give Minnesota a veteran leader on the wing who could serve as a playoff-tested mentor and go-to option alongside young playmakers such as Karl-Anthony Towns and Andrew Wiggins.
As for Phoenix, it hasn't made the playoffs since the 2009-10 season, but Butler could join a developing core that includes Devin Booker and Eric Bledsoe.
While Minnesota and Phoenix are intriguing destinations as potential up-and-coming Western Conference teams, the possibility of Butler suiting up for the Cavaliers or Celtics immediately stands out. The two sides squared off in the Eastern Conference Finals, and having a dynamic player such as Butler could make a difference in a future postseason meeting.
Cleveland in particular could use the defensive upgrade three-time second-team All-Defensive member Butler would represent. The Cavaliers allowed 121.6 points per game in the NBA Finals, as the Golden State Warriors consistently created easy looks at the rim and from deep.
As for the Celtics, Butler is the type of player who could at least slow down LeBron James on the defensive side while still scoring (23.9 points a night in 2016-17) on offense as they look to make up ground in the East against Cleveland.
As the sheer number of interested teams indicates, Butler's immediate future is one of the marquee storylines of the NBA offseason.

Top NBA draft prospect Markelle Fultz already signed a deal with Nike, but he reportedly at least entertained the notion of signing with Big Baller Brand.
On Monday, Cindy Boren and Kent Babb of the Washington Post shared a conversation between Fultz and his trainer, Keith Williams, where the Washington product said, "I was thinking about it, but then I would make him money, though," when discussing the idea of signing with fellow draft prospect Lonzo Ball and Big Baller Brand.
Williams quipped, "I don't think they've got money to sign nobody."
Boren and Babb pointed out Fultz's signing with Nike was more of a loss for Under Armour than Big Baller Brand. Fultz is from the Washington D.C. area—near Under Armour's Baltimore headquarters—and played for an AAU team affiliated with Under Armour.
However, he still chose Nike, also forgoing the opportunity to represent Big Baller Brand and the nearly $500 shoes being sold as Ball heads to the NBA.
While Ball already said he feels like he is a better player than Fultz back in March, via Boren and Babb, the Washington guard said "we just don't talk about what we're going to do."
That means he will do his talking on the court with Nike and likely the Philadelphia 76ers. The Boston Celtics confirmed Monday they traded the top overall pick to Philadelphia in exchange for the No. 3 pick and future draft considerations, clearing the way for the Sixers to take Fultz and form a young core of the rookie, Ben Simmons, Dario Saric and Joel Embiid.
If that Philadelphia core does eventually reach the playoffs as it develops, Fultz will be leading the way in Nike shoes instead of Big Baller Brand.

Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant intends to opt out of his current contract but still plans on re-signing with the team, ESPN.com's Chris Haynes reported Monday.
According to Haynes, Durant will accept a more team-friendly short-term deal with the Warriors in order to help them retain Andre Iguodala.
The Vertical's Shams Charania reported Iguodala is likely to have heavy interest throughout the league and could earn $20 million annually as part of his next contract.
Iguodala is one of four Warriors free agents with full Bird rights, which allows the team to exceed the salary cap in order to re-sign him. Haynes noted Durant could help Golden State offer Iguodala a fair-market deal by accepting roughly $4 million below the max salary in 2017-18.
While Durant can technically become a free agent, few expect him to actually leave the Warriors, similar to the sentiment around LeBron James' free agency last year before he officially re-signed with the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Durant averaged 25.1 points, 8.3 rebounds and 4.8 assists in his first season with Golden State. He also earned NBA Finals MVP as the Warriors won their second NBA championship in three years and the first of Durant's career.
Many wonder whether the Warriors will be able to retain the role players such as Iguodala who have been critical to their recent success, rather than the futures of Durant and Stephen Curry, who's an unrestricted free agent.
The fact Durant will do what he can to help the team keep Iguodala illustrates his commitment to the Warriors' long-term goals.

The Boston Celtics likely aren't done dealing after trading the No. 1 pick in the NBA draft.
If common sense prevails, moving down in the draft order wasn't about Markelle Fultz, whom the Philadelphia 76ers are now expected to take first. And it wasn't about Josh Jackson or Jayson Tatum, forwards whom the Celtics may target if they keep their new No. 3 pick. Sophomore forward Jaylen Brown may have more to offer Boston's rotation in 2017-18 than any rookie wing that general manager Danny Ainge would take at No. 3.
Adding the 2018 (or 2019) first-rounder from the Sixers was the key asset in the deal that got it done for Boston. Having won 53 games and having just advanced to the Eastern Conference Finals, the Celtics are knocking on the door right now.
Obtaining the Sixers' future pick is about the present.
Zagsblog's Adam Zagoria reported last week that league sources were saying that Boston could be looking to acquire more picks to trade for Jimmy Butler. Bleacher Report spoke to two team executives about the validity of the theory, and neither was buying that Ainge went after future picks to improve Boston's 2020 roster.
"It makes sense that they package the picks," one team exec said. "Otherwise, I would be surprised they made the trade [with Philadelphia]."

The only other possible reason for Ainge to trade down? "If you think you can get your guy at No. 3 and pick up assets," the other team exec told Bleacher Report. "Obviously, something about Fultz rubbed them wrong. Probably scared Isaiah Thomas would eat his heart or he didn't defend well enough or didn't fit their culture."
But Jackson or Tatum isn't helping Boston get past the Cleveland Cavaliers in the playoffs. Jackson may bring defensive intensity, but not immediate scoring or shooting, which the Celtics could use at the 3 or 4 spots. And while he's a polished offensive player, Tatum's defense isn't a selling point, particularly after Boston finished closer to middle of the pack in defensive efficiency.
Butler, who's in his prime at 27 years old and still has two guaranteed seasons left on his contract, could be an immediate two-way difference-maker.
And as The Ringer's Kevin O'Connor notes, Ainge could add Butler and still have room to offer the max to Gordon Hayward or Blake Griffin in free agency, depending on what salaries are moved in a potential deal to Chicago.
And if Boston adds Butler first, Boston looks even more attractive to this summer's free-agent class. 
This could be a chance for the Celtics to build their own superteam, the only kind of team capable of beating the Cavaliers or Golden State Warriors in a seven-game series. 
The Celtics now have seven first-round picks over the next three drafts. They clearly have enough assets to trade without jeopardizing their own future.
Ainge could offer No. 3, the Lakers' 2018 first-round pick if it falls between Nos. 2-5 or the Sacramento Kings' 2019 first-rounder, plus Jae Crowder—and still have the Brooklyn Nets' 2018 first-rounder.
And for a team like the Bulls, who have been hesitant to rebuild, they won't find a better opportunity to reset. Boston has become the most attractive trade partner in the league for a team that's stuck in limbo.

Besides selecting Jackson or Tatum, Chicago could take De'Aaron Fox at No. 3 to fill the hole at point guard and then have two lottery or top-10 picks next year, including their own, assuming the Bulls are lottery-bound.
It's still unclear what the Bulls' asking price would be for Butler or how willing they'll be to actually move him. Management has been committed to their All-Star scorer and would likely demand the house in a possible trade.
But Ainge now practically has an entire neighborhood at his disposal.
The possibility of maybe adding Hayward in free agency doesn't sound assuring enough. This is the time to make an offer Chicago can't refuse. This is the time for Boston to go all-in on Butler and for Chicago to rebuild through the draft.

LaVar Ball apparently isn't unique in his attempt to force his son to a specific team.
According to former Minnesota Timberwolves general manager David Kahn, Stephen Curry was pushed away from Minnesota by his father, Dell. In an article for Sports Illustrated, Kahn explained the circumstances before the 2009 draft where he was told not to draft Curry.
Curry's agent, Jeff Austin, called Kahn shortly after his hiring in May to say there would be "no visit and perhaps even hell-to-pay" if Curry was drafted by Minnesota. Dell Curry, who spent 16 years in the NBA, apparently orchestrated the request.
"We told Minnesota that Steph didn't want to go there," he admitted last year, per Paul Coro of AZ Central Sports.
The Timberwolves had the Nos. 5 and 6 picks in the draft and selected point guards Ricky Rubio and Jonny Flynn. Curry was taken No. 7 by the Golden State Warriors and has gone on to win two MVP awards and two NBA titles.
Kahn compared this situation to that of Ball, who has worked hard to steer his son, Lonzo Ball, to the Los Angeles Lakers. He has not worked out for any other teams during the predraft process.
While Curry's move clearly paid off, it remains to be seen if Ball will be as fortunate.

After the Philadelphia 76ers on Monday officially traded up to the No. 1 pick in the 2017 NBA draft, fans organized a reckoning.
Using the hashtag "#RTArmageddon," believers in The Process exposed old takes about the team's accumulation of draft stock—and the mastermind behind it, ex-general manager Sam Hinkie—in recent years. Organized by The Rights To Ricky Sanchez, "the only" 76ers-specific podcast, hosts Spike Eskin and Michael Levin quickly had the hashtag trending across the U.S. 
Here's a look into the fray:
Yeah, I’ll #RTArmageddon myself. s://t.co/UAHrzoCfEU
Let's never forget how @bobfordsports undermined the Process. 

#RTArmageddon s://t.co/UmaFOw9XwO
"His whole approach on risk has been bad."

@hoopscritic on Sam Hinkie drafting Joel Embiid.
►://t.co/vJK1THrE6G ://t.co/BxWxzOEmFd
The level of pettiness oozing from the city of Philadelphia with #RTArmageddon is without a doubt the most Philly thing ever.
Sixers are not getting Ben Simmons -@TonyBrunoShow #RTArmageddon s://t.co/CkXhONeKuH
This one is an all timer for the #RTArmageddon s://t.co/bwTkdjMO1S
oh this one is GOLD #RTArmageddon s://t.co/lnvTv4nc7F
#RTArmageddon @Greg_Ebersole s://t.co/XpKSq5SlfX
It's widely believed the Sixers will select Markelle Fultz, giving them a Big Three of top-three picks headlined by Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons.


Boston Celtics general manager Danny Ainge said he is "not afraid" of judgment after formally agreeing to trade the No. 1 overall pick in Thursday's draft to the Philadelphia 76ers.
"We're all judged on days like these. I am not afraid of that," Ainge said, per Scott Souza of the Providence Journal.
The Celtics agreed to send the No. 1 overall selection to the Sixers in exchange for No. 3 and a protected future first-round pick, a deal that was agreed to over the weekend and finalized Monday.
Philadelphia will send its 2018 Lakers pick to Boston, provided it falls between No. 2 and No. 5. If the Lakers pick falls outside those parameters, the Sixers will either send the better of their or the Sacramento Kings' 2019 draft pick to the Celtics, provided it is not the No. 1 pick.
Ainge said he believes the Celtics may get the player they would have chosen at No. 1 at No. 3.
"We're going to get a player that we like, in addition to some further assets," Ainge said.
The Sixers are fully expected to take Washington guard Markelle Fultz with the top pick. With the Lakers zeroing in on UCLA guard Lonzo Ball, all signs point to Ainge taking Kansas swingman Josh Jackson with the third pick. While there has been some variation on boards, Fultz, Ball and Jackson have become a near-consensus top three in this class.
It would be the second straight year Ainge has selected an athletic swingman with shaky handles and a developing jump shot at No. 3. The Celtics took Jaylen Brown out of Cal last year and watched him struggle to acclimate to the NBA game. While Brown has some long-term promise still, there's something of a roster redundancy going on in Boston that's going to get solved via another trade sooner than later. 

The Indiana Pacers will have to try some outside-the-box thinking to survive if Paul George does leave this summer, and that could include putting Lance Stephenson in a bigger role.
According to Gregg Doyel of the Indy Star, general manager Kevin Pritchard is considering putting Stephenson at point guard to lead the rebuilding process. The 26-year-old apparently "looks great" after losing 10 pounds.
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported George's plans to leave Indiana when he becomes a free agent in 2018. The team has since discussed potential trades with several teams to move him before the start of next season in an effort to kickstart the rebuilding process.
With point guard Jeff Teague also a free agent this summer, the Pacers have a lot of question marks going forward.
One of the solutions could be seeing what the team has in Stephenson. The shooting guard was a key part of the Pacers' success from 2010-14, but he struggled mightily over the past few years, playing for five different organizations over the past three seasons.
He returned to Indiana at the end of last year, averaging 7.2 points and 4.2 assists in six games. He then looked as good as ever in the postseason, averaging 16 points and 5.3 rebounds per game during the first-round sweep at the hands of the Cleveland Cavaliers.
If he can transition to point guard and run the offense, he could provide the Pacers with a lot of value over the next two years at a reasonable cost.

Los Angeles Clippers Austin Rivers told TMZ Sports he'd decline an invite to the White House to be honored by President Donald Trump in the event the Clippers won an NBA title.
When asked whether he'd travel to Washington, D.C., Rivers responded, "Nope":
Rivers' comments come as the Golden State Warriors weigh whether or not to visit the nation's capital following their NBA championship.
Officially, the Warriors have yet to make any decision about their potential trip to the White House. Should Golden State do so, it'd likely be without two of its best players.
Stephen Curry reiterated his preference to skip the event.
"Somebody asked me about it a couple months ago, a hypothetical, if a championship were to happen: 'What would I do?'" Curry said, per the San Jose Mercury News' Anthony Slater. "I think I answered that I wouldn't go. I still feel like that today."
Andre Iguodala told USA Today's Sam Amick he'd vote for passing on the opportunity as well but added the Warriors are "going to do what our leader [Curry] does."
The Warriors are the first NBA team to win a title since Trump assumed office. The Cleveland Cavaliers visited Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, two days following the 2016 presidential election. Cavaliers forward Richard Jefferson alluded to the air of unpredictability surrounding the possibility of NBA teams continuing the tradition (via HoopsHype):
Richard Jefferson on Snapchat. s://t.co/dZgvSz6ysD
With the way the Warriors are poised to dominate the league for the foreseeable future, Rivers may not have the opportunity to turn down the White House visit.
The Clippers' title hopes in particular are up in the air considering Chris Paul and Blake Griffin can opt out of their contracts and become free agents this offseason.

LOS ANGELES — For a Los Angeles Lakers franchise that has lost Kobe Bryant and a historic number of games over the past four seasons, the increasing likelihood that Paul George soon arrives and the possibility that LeBron James eventually joins him is a testament to how the power of the brand holds strong.
The George scenario has been omnipresent for some time, and Cleveland's loss in the 2017 NBA Finals has led Lakers officials to hear more whispers about James' interest in a final chapter in Los Angeles, where his wife would like to live full time, per sources. The Lakers have long known the appreciation James, who grew up a fan of the New York Yankees and Dallas Cowboys, holds for their iconic brand.
The first order of business comes Thursday night, though. That's part of the momentum behind the franchise, too.
Hotshot UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball desperately wants to be drafted by his hometown team, and the Lakers are nearing a final decision to select him with the No. 2 overall pick, according to league sources.
Some final planning and discussion remains to be done before the draft Thursday, per team sources, but Ball logged quality time with Lakers president Magic Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka in a second predraft meeting Friday.
The Lakers, especially Pelinka, have tried to keep an open mind throughout workouts and interviews to settle on the best player available to them. But an appreciation for Ball's all-around upside has emerged that transcends the local fanfare over him and the constant publicity his father generates. And while athletic Kansas forward Josh Jackson remains a possibility at No. 2, his shooting ability is a concern.
The Lakers' suspicion that Ball might wind up being better than presumptive No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz—and perhaps the Boston Celtics' suspicion that Jackson or Duke forward Jayson Tatum also could be better than Fultz—will make the top of this draft one to be analyzed for years.
Many league executives view Fultz as the best option largely because he has the least bust potential, but that clearly wasn't a strong enough selling point to Celtics general manager Danny Ainge, whose decision to trade down to No. 3 will hand Fultz to the Philadelphia 76ers.
The Lakers got a firsthand look at Fultz in a workout Thursday, so the fact that they are leaning toward Ball (even if Fultz was available) as this week began is telling.
Between the last few years of losing and some lottery luck, the Lakers have assembled a core of players who could one day be special. But as well as the team has drafted, it has also gotten to see Brandon Ingram, D'Angelo Russell, Julius Randle, Ivica Zubac, Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr. closely enough to know what imperfections each player possesses.
Ingram has already been diligent and impressive in offseason workouts, affirming the Lakers' belief that he is their most special prospect despite his shaky shooting as a rookie.

There is still a lot to like about both Russell and Randle as well, but there are also ongoing questions about how well they take criticism, according to team sources. Lakers head coach Luke Walton entered the season asking Russell to be less of a know-it-all and more of a leader for the group, while he hoped Randle would emulate Draymond Green in using every perceived slight as motivation. Though both players improved their games, neither advanced as far as Walton had hoped. Russell was inconsistent with his professionalism, and Randle often lost messages given to him if they were delivered harshly.
Whether the uncertainties surrounding players as young as Russell and Randle are meaningful enough that the Lakers are willing to trade them remains to be seen. It'd be a huge risk to sell low on Russell, in particular.
But every evaluation of the young roster is at least tangentially linked to the club's decisions on established superstars such as George and James. How does a traditional center such as Zubac fit in the modern NBA? Will Nance stay healthy?
The Lakers have been disinclined to gut their young core to trade for George since they could sign him as a free agent in 2018. But since the Lakers would have to trade some of their youngsters for salary-cap space to sign both George and another max-caliber player such as James, giving up a solid player in Clarkson and his $50 million contract in a George trade comes much more easily. Trading Clarkson for a current or future draft pick in a separate deal makes a ton of sense given the Lakers' need to keep adding talent and desire to clear future payroll.

Assuming the Lakers follow through with drafting Ball, there will be pros and cons with him, too. Such is life with young NBA players—especially teenagers.
For now, however, Ball's star potential makes him an ideal fit for the sweet-passing, fun-to-watch identity Walton is establishing.
There also appears to be real hope another star is on the way in George, a Kobe disciple who wants to be a Laker. That possibility alone is a welcome change for a Lakers franchise that has struggled of late.
They lost 200-plus games over the past four years, got snubbed by Dwight Howard and LaMarcus Aldridge in free agency, bid their teary farewell to Bryant and then signed Timofey Mozgov and Luol Deng to brutal long-term contracts.
Despite all of that, the Lakers are now driving interest up in this draft and remain as relevant as any team in the NBA. Depending on what happens with George and/or James, that could be even more true in the years to come. 
Kevin Ding is an NBA senior writer for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, @KevinDing.

The Philadelphia 76ers acquired the first overall pick in the 2017 NBA draft from the Boston Celtics on Monday in exchange for the No. 3 selection in this year's draft and either the Los Angeles Lakers' first-round pick in 2018 or the Sacramento Kings' or 76ers' first-round pick in 2019.
The Celtics confirmed the blockbuster trade is officially complete. The Sixers are expected to take University of Washington point guard Markelle Fultz with the top pick when the draft gets underway Thursday night at the Barclays Center in New York City.
Boston noted it will have the Lakers' pick if it falls between picks two and five, otherwise the Celtics will claim the better of the 76ers and Kings' 2019 first-round selections.
It's a deal that makes sense for both teams.
The Celtics already feature a backcourt of Isaiah Thomas, Avery Bradley and Marcus Smart. Keeping the first overall selection to add either Fultz or UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball would have created a logjam, likely forcing the front office to make further offseason moves.
Trading down to the third pick puts the team in range to land one of the class' top small forwards: Kansas' Josh Jackson or Duke's Jayson Tatum. That's a much better fit on paper based on the team's current roster, and it also adds future assets in the process.
Meanwhile, Boston could also use its growing bevy of draft picks to make another high-profile deal.
Adam Zagoria‏ of ZagsBlog noted general manager Danny Ainge could attempt to engage the Chicago Bulls in trade talks for superstar small forward Jimmy Butler after stockpiling first-round selections.
The Celtics were previously linked to Butler, as well as Indiana Pacers forward Paul George, leading up to last season's trade deadline. They weren't able to acquire either player, and the lack of star power showed during their playoff exit against the Cleveland Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference Finals.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
On the flip side, the Sixers' extended rebuilding process produced plenty of frontcourt talent. Ben Simmons, Joel Embiid, Dario Saric, Jahlil Okafor and Richaun Holmes all possess the potential to become high-impact players up front.
So a playmaking guard like Fultz is the perfect addition as Philly attempts to finally turn the corner and start contending for the playoffs again.
The 19-year-old Maryland native averaged 23.2 points, 5.9 assists, 5.7 rebounds, 1.6 steals and 1.2 blocks during his only collegiate season with the Huskies. He's prepared to step right in and play extensive minutes for the 76ers right away.
Embiid posted a picture on Instagram featuring what's expected to become Philadelphia's core:
A photo posted by Joel "The Process" Embiid (@joelembiid)
ESPN Stats and Info noted it's just the fourth time since 1980 a team knowingly traded the first overall pick in the NBA draft. The Celtics made the same decision 27 years ago. They slid down to No. 3 to select Kevin McHale, and the Golden State Warriors moved up to take Joe Barry Carroll.
Boston will hope for similar success from this trade, while Philadelphia puts its faith in the deal to change the mindset from trusting the process to competing for a playoff berth.

The Boston Celtics have a new look at the NBA draft after trading back from No. 1 to No. 3, and the result is new prospects to evaluate.
According to Dave McMenamin of ESPN, this includes former Duke star Jayson Tatum, who worked out with the team for the first time.
He reportedly "impressed with his shot-making and footwork in the drills he participated in."
Even if Markelle Fultz and Lonzo Ball are taken with the first two picks as expected, Boston has several quality options for the No. 3 selection.
ESPN's Chad Ford reported before the latest trade the Celtics were considering Kansas' Josh Jackson even with the No. 1 pick. The interest has likely only grown with the trade down.
General manager Danny Ainge also specifically noted Monday the player he wants to draft at No. 3 is likely the one he would have taken at No. 1, per the team's official account.
There are also other top point guards available, like De'Aaron Fox, although Adam Himmelsbach of the Boston Globe reported the lack of need in the backcourt was a reason the Celtics traded out of the No. 1 spot.
Still, Tatum could make a lot of sense after the wing averaged 16.8 points and 7.3 rebounds per game in his only college season. He is one of the best pure scorers in the class and could make an immediate impact for a team that was already the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference.
With Doug Gottlieb of Fox Sports 1 calling Tatum the "most NBA ready" prospect, it makes sense for a championship contender to grab him in the first round.

The Phoenix Suns have the No. 4 pick in the NBA draft, but it might not be high enough to get their top target.
According to Chad Ford of ESPN, the team wants Lonzo Ball and has already discussed a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers and Boston Celtics for the No. 2 or No. 3 pick, respectively.
Ford added the team has interest in Josh Jackson, but projects him off the board as well with Markelle Fultz, Ball and Jackson going with the first three picks.
The Suns' interest in Ball is understandable as a true point guard who averaged an NCAA-best 7.6 assists per game last season. He is also quickly becoming a household name, providing some excitement for a team that had the worst record in the Western Conference last season.
While Eric Bledsoe remains under contract for the next two years, Phoenix could be looking to replace him as the starting point guard.
However, Ball would have to get past the Lakers at No. 2. The UCLA guard has only worked out for Los Angeles and had his second visit last week, per ESPN.
On the plus side, Shams Charania of The Vertical reported no guarantee has been made from the Lakers, so the Suns' dream scenario could still come true.

With a handful of their players set to hit free agency this offseason, the Golden State Warriors have Shaun Livingston among those they hope to re-sign, The Vertical's Shams Charania reported Monday.
Livingston has averaged 5.8 points and 2.7 assists a game in his three seasons with Golden State. He earned a little over $5.7 million in the final year of his current contract.
Stephen Curry is a free agent, while Kevin Durant can opt out of his contract and become a free agent as well. Considering their status on the team and success they've enjoyed, they'll both almost assuredly remain in the Bay Area.
Less predictable will be the futures of Livingston, Ian Clark, JaVale McGee, Andre Iguodala and Zaza Pachulia. Iguodala in particular is in line for a big pay raise, with Charania reporting the veteran wing could command as much as $20 million a year.
While the Warriors have spared no expense in order to build a dynasty, paying Iguodala that much might be a bridge too far for general manager Bob Myers.
Livingston, on the other hand, will earn far less than that. According to Spotrac, he's also one of three Warriors free agents—Curry and Iguodala being the others—with Bird Rights, so Golden State can go over the salary cap in order to re-sign him.
The Warriors' depth is one reason they've won two NBA titles in three years. Being able to call upon Livingston off the bench is a nice luxury for Golden State. He's an experienced guard who creates matchup problems for opponents because of his height (6'7").
Should Livingston's contract demands climb too high, the Warriors may be better off evaluating all of their options. Otherwise, there's little reason to expect him playing elsewhere in 2017-18.

Jimmy Butler and Isaiah Thomas, two of the best players in the NBA, were picked as the last selections in the first and second rounds, respectively, in the 2011 draft. Expectations weren't particularly high for either of them, but they developed into All-Stars.
The deep 2017 NBA draft has the chance to produce some other sleeper picks, which we are defining as players who aren't touted enough to be considered lottery selections but could have long and productive careers.
Here's a look at three prospects mocked to go outside the lottery who have a chance to shine in the NBA.
TV Schedule
When: Thursday, June 22, at 7 p.m. ET
Where: Barclays Center; Brooklyn, New York
TV: ESPN
Live Stream: WatchESPN
   
2017 NBA Mock Draft
1. Philadelphia 76ers: Markelle Fultz, PG, Washington
2. Los Angeles Lakers: Lonzo Ball, PG, UCLA
3. Boston Celtics: Jayson Tatum, SF, Duke
4. Phoenix Suns: Josh Jackson, SF, Kansas
5. Sacramento Kings: De'Aaron Fox, PG, Kentucky
6. Orlando Magic: Jonathan Isaac, SF/PF, Florida State
7. Minnesota Timberwolves: Lauri Markkanen, PF, Arizona
8. New York Knicks: Malik Monk, SG, Kentucky
9. Dallas Mavericks: Frank Ntilikina, PG, SIG Strasbourg (France)
10. Sacramento Kings: Zach Collins, C, Gonzaga
11. Charlotte Hornets: Justin Jackson, SF, North Carolina
12. Detroit Pistons: Dennis Smith Jr., PG, NC State
13. Denver Nuggets: OG Anunoby, SF, Indiana
14. Miami Heat: Donovan Mitchell, SG, Louisville
15. Portland Trail Blazers: Luke Kennard, SG, Duke
16. Chicago Bulls: Jarrett Allen, C, Texas
17. Milwaukee Bucks: Harry Giles, PF, Duke
18. Indiana Pacers: John Collins, PF, Wake Forest
19. Atlanta Hawks: Justin Patton, C, Creighton
20. Portland Trail Blazers: Bam Adebayo, PF, Kentucky
21. Oklahoma City Thunder: Jordan Bell, PF, Oregon
22. Brooklyn Nets: Jawun Evans, PG, Oklahoma State
23. Toronto Raptors: Ike Anigbogu, C, UCLA
24. Utah Jazz: TJ Leaf, PF, UCLA
25. Orlando Magic: Isaiah Hartenstein, PF, Zalgiris Kaunas (Lithuania)
26. Portland Trail Blazers: Semi Ojeleye, SF/PF, SMU
27. Brooklyn Nets: Terrance Ferguson, SG, Adelaide (Australia)
28. Los Angeles Lakers: DJ Wilson, PF, Michigan
29. San Antonio Spurs: Derrick White, PG, Colorado
30. Utah Jazz: Tyler Lydon, PF, Syracuse
     
Bam Adebayo
In his one year at Kentucky, 6'10" big man Bam Adebayo averaged 13.0 points per game. That's an impressive number for a freshman, but it's more noteworthy considering that he only attempted an average of 7.5 field goals while teammates (and future top-10 picks) De'Aaron Fox and Malik Monk took most of the shots.
Adebayo was also an efficient scorer, making 59.9 percent of his field goals during the season.
Furthermore, Adebayo's rebounding improved as the season went along. Until February 11, Adebayo only had three games (out of 25) with 10 or more rebounds. However, from February 14 through March 26, Adebayo posted six double-digit rebounding games (out of 13).
Don't be surprised to see the former Wildcat, who will be just 20 years old when the season begins, get big minutes for his new team right away.
     
Jawun Evans
Here's a simple fact that can't be ignored: Evans was the leader and best player on the No. 1 offensive team in Division I men's college basketball last year.
Per KenPom.com, Oklahoma State ranked No. 1 out of 351 teams in offensive efficiency last season, an impressive feat considering its tough Big 12 Conference schedule.
Evans posted averages of 19.2 points, 6.4 assists and 1.8 steals per game for a Cowboys team that finished its season with 20 wins and an NCAA tournament appearance, which ended with a one-point loss to the scorching-hot Michigan Wolverines in the first round.
Even more impressively, Evans was only a sophomore last year and will turn just 21 years old on July 26.
It's hard seeing Evans leading an NBA team next season, but he could definitely be a backup point guard and get significant time off the bench.
    
John Collins
One can argue that no player in men's Division I college basketball performed better than 6'10" Wake Forest big man in the second half of the regular season.
Collins willed the Demon Deacons to the NCAA tournament with some sensational performances down the stretch, most notably a 25-point, 11-rebound effort against then-eighth-ranked Louisville in an 88-81 victory.
Two games prior to his monster game against the Cardinals, Collins dropped 31 points and 15 boards against eventual ACC tournament champion Duke.
He posted averages of 19.2 points (on 62.2 percent shooting), 9.8 rebounds and 1.6 blocks in just 26.6 minutes per game. That production simply can't be ignored.
Collins has the capability to start for an NBA team right away.

A strong year in a reserve role for the Golden State Warriors is enough to get Ian Clark a lot of attention on the free-agent market.
According to Shams Charania of The Vertical, the 26-year-old is "expected to garner strong interest" this offseason.
Clark averaged a career-high 6.8 points per game this season in 77 regular-season appearances.
He also played a key role in the playoff rotation as the Warriors brought home the 2017 NBA title.
Clark went undrafted out of Belmont and had limited opportunities with the Utah Jazz and Denver Nuggets along with a lot of time in the D-League before latching on with Golden State last season.
Unfortunately, the Warriors will have higher priorities this offseason. Stephen Curry is a free agent, while Kevin Durant could opt out of his contract. Nearly the entire bench is also ready to go on the open market, including Andre Iguodala, Shaun Livingston, David West and JaVale McGee.
Although there might not be room in the salary cap for Clark, he should get an opportunity with some team next season.

For a team that hasn’t sniffed the NBA playoffs since 2004 and finished 10 games shy of a top-eight spot this past season, the Minnesota Timberwolves can feel good about how they’re positioned at the 2017 draft. They don’t have any glaring positional needs to address this summer, be it on draft day or during free agency in July.
They’re already loaded with young talent, between Karl-Anthony Towns and Andrew Wiggins on the cusp of greatness, Zach LaVine on the mend from a torn ACL and Kris Dunn on the rise. They have solid veterans locked into reasonable contracts at point guard (Ricky Rubio) and power forward (Gorgui Dieng).
Minnesota can comfortably take the best prospect available. At No. 7 in this year’s draft, the team should have more than a few enticing options. Here’s a look at five ways the Wolves could use their latest lottery pick come Thursday, starting with the best option and listing the rest in descending order.

Minnesota managed to build a top-10 offense last season despite finishing dead-last in three-point makes (7.3 per game) and attempts (21.0 per game).
That dichotomy was partly the product of personnel. The Wolves had just one player (Zach LaVine) who averaged more than four triple attempts a night and squeezed plenty of offense out of the largely inside-the-arc duo of Andrew Wiggins and Karl-Anthony Towns, who combined for 48.7 points per game.
That those two were able to thrive without much in the way of floor-spacing shooters, especially after Zach LaVine injured his knee, is a testament to their scoring talent. But for Minnesota to maximize its soon-to-be-All-Stars, it will need players with strokes pretty enough to pull defenders farther out and effective enough to warrant kickout passes from Wiggins, Towns and Ricky Rubio.
Malik Monk looks like the most lethal such weapon in this year’s draft. He drained nearly 40 percent of his threes and dropped 20 points or more 19 times during his 38 games at Kentucky.
The Wolves could also look at Luke Kennard. The Duke product has been shooting up draft boards of late, thanks to an outside stroke that helped him knock down 43.8 percent of his threes as a sophomore in Durham. 
While LaVine is rehabbing his knee, either Monk or Kennard could help soak up minutes at the off-guard spot. Once LaVine returns, the Wolves could slide their newest young guard into a reserve role, with Monk in particular looking like the second coming of Lou Williams.

Gorgui Dieng has done well to stretch his shooting range. This past season, he shot no worse than 43.4 percent from every range inside the arc, per Basketball Reference, and hit 16-of-43 (37.2 percent) of his attempts from beyond it.
Where Dieng, 27, is just now finding his footing as a perimeter threat, Lauri Markkanen, at the age of 20, is already plenty comfortable on that part of the floor. During his lone season at Arizona, the 7-footer from Finland fired off 4.4 three-pointers per game, draining 42.3 percent of them.
The concern for Markkanen is much closer to the hoop. Despite his height, he didn’t dominate inside in college. According to Sports Reference, he grabbed just 14.0 percent of available rebounds and blocked a mere 1.8 percent of opponent two-point tries while he was on the floor.  
Granted, some of Markkanen’s slack on the boards had to do with his spending time away from the glass. In Minnesota, he won’t have to anchor the middle of Tom Thibodeau’s defense while Towns or Dieng is on the floor. Then again, staying in front of smaller, quicker forwards might not be in the cards for Markkanen, either.
That being said, his combination of shooting and all-around offensive skill could help to supercharge Minnesota’s attack. If Markkanen can adapt to Thibs’ demands on defense, he’ll have his opportunities to shine thanks to his picturesque shot.

Why would the Wolves, who already have Wiggins entrenched on the wing, go for Jonathan Isaac?
For one, Isaac isn’t strictly a small forward. At 6’11” with a 7’1.25” wingspan, he has the frame to play power forward and even some center in small-ish lineups, assuming he’s able to pack on weight in the coming years.
Isaac’s defensive versatility is what will get him on the court early in his career under head coach Tom Thibodeau. He has the length, athleticism and foot speed to guard just about every position on the floor, if not yet the sheer strength to stop grown men in their tracks.
Skill-wise, Isaac has shown he can handle the ball well enough to play the 3 and score efficiently inside the arc (59.3 percent on twos in college). He wasn’t a sharpshooter in school, per se, but his stroke isn’t broken. His output in Tallahassee (34.8 percent on 2.8 three-point attempts per game) portends a potential uptick once he adjusts to NBA range.
The most pressing concern for Isaac, as far as Minnesota is concerned? His readiness to contribute. He may be the biggest project among this year’s top prospects. The Wolves, meanwhile, are trying to (finally) win now with the talent they have on hand.
Finding opportunities for Isaac to develop amid that milieu might be a stretch.

The depth chart suggests point guard is the last position to target.
The Wolves acquired Duke’s Tyus Jones in the first round two years ago and added Providence’s Kris Dunn with the No. 5 pick last year. Those selections both came with Ricky Rubio, who has two years and $29.2 million left on his deal, already entrenched as the team’s top floor general.
But that stack of floor generals might not be as deep as it seems. Rumors about Rubio’s future have swirled around the Land of 10,000 Lakes since Thibs arrived and have yet to relent. According to DallasBasketball.com’s Mike Fisher, the Mavericks have discussed internally the possibility of going after Rubio.
Dunn, meanwhile, performed underwhelmingly as a rookie. And Jones, who’s shown some shooting ability (35.6 percent from three in 2016-17), may be better suited to backup duty over the long run.
It just so happens that the top of this year’s draft is loaded with enticing players at the point. Minnesota is well out of range for Markelle Fultz and Lonzo Ball and probably won’t get a crack at Kentucky’s De’Aaron Fox, either. But North Carolina State’s Dennis Smith Jr. and French teenager Frank Ntilikina could both be available.
If the Wolves aren’t comfortable with Rubio and aren’t convinced that Dunn and Jones can be the future—and don’t feel an urgent need to address another position in this draft—they could do much worse than pick from among a promising point guard crop.

In truth, if the Wolves break their postseason drought next season, it won’t likely be because of whomever they would or could draft at No. 7. What this team needs, beyond just time for its young stars to develop together, is veteran talent.
The pick could come in handy as a trade chip if Minnesota chooses to use it as such. Last year, the Wolves’ lottery spot at No. 5 was bandied about in trade rumors involving Chicago’s Jimmy Butler. Perhaps this year’s selection, in a much stronger draft, will carry more weight in negotiations.
Minnesota, though, need not deal away such a valuable pick in exchange for role players. The Wolves can clear upward of $20 million cap room to spend on midtier free agents this summer.
But if the right trade for an impact player emerges, the Wolves could use the seventh pick to grease the skids for another key piece to arrive in the Gopher State. That will depend on how Thibodeau balances his priorities, between helping his team compete now and setting it up for an even brighter future down the line.
All stats via NBA.com and Basketball Reference unless otherwise noted.
Josh Martin covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and listen to his Hollywood Hoops podcast with B/R Lakers lead writer Eric Pincus.

Paul George's trade value plummeted Sunday.
According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, George officially "informed" the Indiana Pacers "that he plans to become a free agent in the summer of 2018 and will leave the franchise—preferably for the Los Angeles Lakers."
It doesn't get much worse than this if you're Indiana.
Dealing George one year away from free agency with the threat of the Lakers looming was difficult enough. Trading him now, in what amounts to a likely rental, bilks the Pacers of even more leverage. 
Keep this in mind as we roll through potential packages and landing spots for George. Some teams will be willing to roll the dice, whether they're prepared to let him walk in 2018 or they believe one season is enough of time to change his mind. But as Wojnarowski relayed, "Indiana's ability to find a trade for George elsewhere has become increasingly limited, if not crippled, because NBA teams believe that it’s George’s intention to eventually sign with the Lakers as a free agent in 2018."
Getting anything close to fair value for him is now out of the question. The Pacers can only hope to leave the bargaining table short of being fleeced for a player they should have already moved.

Cleveland Cavaliers Receive: SF Paul George
Indiana Pacers Receive: PF Kevin Love
This idea was inevitable. Using Kevin Love to poach George or Jimmy Butler has been the Cleveland Cavaliers' unofficial goal since falling to the Golden State Warriors in five games during the 2017 NBA Finals. The scenario will only heat up after Indiana reached out to them as part of its due diligence, according to ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin.
Losing Love for an admitted flight risk stings. The earliest he can become a free agent is 2019 (player option), and he played sensational basketball for much of the playoffs, shooting the lights out and pounding the glass in volume. 
And yet, as SI.com's Ben Golliver wrote, this is the price Cleveland must pay to adequately rival Golden State:
"This isn't a "Trade Love because he sucks!" decision, but rather a "Trade Love because matching up with Durant's Warriors demands it" decision. Indeed, Love was excellent throughout the 2017 playoffs—shooting the ball well, hitting the glass and playing passable defense at both the four and five—and much improved in the 2017 Finals compared to last year. But the Cavaliers have learned over the last two weeks that they can't beat the Warriors in an up-and-down shootout and that they must improve their defensive personnel. Sacrificing Love's spread offense and rebounding is the price Cleveland must pay to improve its defense and interchangeability."
LeBron James will be a free agent in 2018. The Cavaliers don't have time to improve their roster through alternative means. They are capped out, woefully thin on tangible trade assets and cannot trade a first-rounder until 2021.
Love isn't the ideal return for a Pacers team pivoting into a rebuild. He turns 29 before next season and can leave in two years time. But as Larry Bird made clear to ESPN.com's Zach Lowe in March before resigning as team president, Indiana isn't a market that can afford to bottom out. Pairing Love with Myles Turner keeps the Pacers relevant now, and they can always try to flip Love for picks and prospects later.

Cleveland Cavaliers Receive: SF Paul George, No. 51 pick (via Denver)
Denver Nuggets Receive: PF Kevin Love
Indiana Pacers Receive: SG Malik Beasley, PF Kenneth Faried, No. 13 pick (via Denver)
The Cavaliers become a more viable trade partner if they find a third team to take Love and send Indiana the mix of picks, prospects and reasonably priced deals they can't. 
Enter the Denver Nuggets.
Slotting Love next to Nikola Jokic won't help the defense one iota, but the Nuggets shouldn't care. They need another star—almost any star. Love's outside-in game helps them sustain what was the league's best offense over the final 57 games, and they'll have the leftover cap space necessary to add perimeter defenders who mask their frontcourt turnstile.
Indiana is essentially getting two first-round picks and Kenneth Faried for its troubles—a package more in line with its rebuilding efforts.
Malik Beasley isn't a Paul George replacement, but the Pacers need a wing prospect after shedding an All-Star forward. While they could hope Luke Kennard or Donovan Mitchell falls to No. 13, grabbing Beasley and selecting one of the many stretch bigs available in this year's draft is the more balanced play.
Denver can sub in Wilson Chandler for Faried if the Pacers don't want another non-shooter, but he'll demand a semi-lucrative raise next summer (player option). Fared is still just 27 and signed through 2018-19. His team-friendly deal allows Indiana to use him as a starter next to Turner or as a spark plug off the bench.
It's an underwhelming return for a superstar, but the Pacers don't have much of a choice. They're lucky the Cavaliers should be desperate enough to help them secure 40 cents on the dollar for a player they've needed to offload for some time. 

Denver Nuggets Receive: SF Paul George
Indiana Pacers Receive: PF Kenneth Faried, PG Emmanuel Mudiay, 2018 lottery-protected first-round pick
If the Nuggets are feeling frisky—and perhaps a little reckless—they needn't help the Cavaliers trade for George.
They can deal for him themselves.
George popped up on the Nuggets' radar at the February trade deadline, but they were dissuaded from landing him after his camp "warned" them he'd leave in free agency, according to Wojnarowski (via Harrison Faigen of Silver Screen & Roll). Nothing has changed. George continues to have eyes for the Lakers, so the Nuggets would have to acquire him knowing the relationship is likely temporary.
That's a problem if you're coughing up Gary Harris or Jamal Murray. The risk is worlds easier to reconcile when assembling a package around expendable assets.
Emmanuel Mudiay won't ever have a rightful place in the offense with Jokic running the show. He is nonessential. At the same time, if the Pacers can get their hands on a top-seven prospect with two years left on his rookie-scale contract, they should do it. He plays point guard, and George's exit should spell the end to Jeff Teague's tenure in Indiana.
Faried, again, offers immediate offensive and rebounding jolts. The Pacers can ask for Chandler if they want, but the future first-round pick is a bigger hangup. Landing Mudiay should satiate any desire they have to get another pick in this year's draft, and they won't have to wait long for a lottery-protected choice to convey when their trade partner is adding George.
Denver is assuming a lion's share of the risk here. George's infatuation with Los Angeles might even make this an overpay. But this deal only costs the Nuggets around $1.5 million in cap space. They'll still have the cash to sniff around big names in free agency and the assets to remain blockbuster players on the trade market—flexibility they can use to pitch George on a long-term marriage.

Indiana Pacers Receive: PG Jordan Clarkson, PF Julius Randle, No. 28 pick
Los Angeles Lakers Receive: SF Paul George
As of now, according to ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne, the Lakers "have shown no inclination yet of surrendering anything" for George when they can sign him outright next summer. Sources told The Ringer's Kevin O'Connor this will change if the Cavaliers make major headway in negotiations, but until then, Los Angeles holds all the cards. 
What do you trade for a player who will cost nothing beyond cap space in one year? Very little. 
Brandon Ingram, D'Angelo Russell and the No. 2 pick should all be off the table without further incentive. The Pacers would be fortunate to extract this much from the Lakers.
Jordan Clarkson is a quality offensive combo guard on a manageable contract, and Julius Randle, while due for a raise next July, made real strides as a playmaking hub last season. If the Pacers want more than this, the Lakers should pass. 
Sure, George could end up signing with another team once he's traded elsewhere. But this isn't 2011, when the New York Knicks tricked themselves into thinking Carmelo Anthony turned them into a contender and mortgaged their future in a midseason blockbuster even though they could have signed him that summer. The championship picture isn't wide open. George doesn't put the Lakers in the same stratosphere as the Warriors. They know it, and he knows it. 
So if he wants to go somewhere else, let him. More likely, though, his interest in playing for the Lakers is about location and familiarity (he's from California). He could relocate to Los Angeles no matter what, knowing a clear path toward a title doesn't exist.
Either way, the Lakers shouldn't be offering the Pacers much at all. George himself might prefer they retain Randle, with whom he shares an agent, and Clarkson. This package, which also includes the No. 28 pick, should be their best offer unless another suitor can scare them into giving up more. 

Indiana Pacers Receive: C Timofey Mozgov, PG D'Angelo Russell
Los Angeles Lakers Receive: SF Paul George
Adding George puts the Lakers in a slightly awkward position. The kiddies won't be good enough to contend for a championship right away, but you don't acquire a 27-year-old superstar with the intention of slow-playing your rebuild.
Trading for George would be the first of a multistep process in which the Lakers bring on at least two established marquee talents. Deal for him now, and they'll want to be free-agency aggressors in 2018, when James, DeMarcus Cousins and Russell Westbrook are all ticketed for the open market.
That's not possible while carrying contracts for Luol Deng and Timofey Mozgov—not with Clarkson on the books and Randle entering restricted free agency. And moving either of them isn't easy. Low-end first-round goodies, such as the No. 28 pick, probably aren't enough of a sweetener.
Pawning off Mozgov in any George deal is a huge win. Assuming they don't make other expensive roster tweaks, the Lakers would begin the 2018 offseason under the projected $102 million salary cap—all while floating free-agent holds for George and Randle.
From there, they must still dump two of Clarkson, Deng and Randle to carve out max room, but the gymnastics involved are exponentially easier with Mozgov already gone. The No. 28 pick—at that point an actual player—most likely gets the final two years of Deng's pact off the ledger, and the Lakers needn't do anything to renounce Randle or find a taker for Clarkson.
Sending out Russell, who also shares an agent with George, is suboptimal collateral damage. But he becomes excess if the Lakers, as expected, draft Lonzo Ball. And getting someone like him, a budding commodity on the come-up, is enough for the Pacers to swallow the three seasons remaining on Mozgov's contract. Russell has two years left on his rookie-scale agreement, and quality restricted free agents rarely change locales. Indiana can keep him under team control for at least another seven years when factoring in his next deal.
The No. 2 pick stays untouchable in this scenario. The 28th overall selection can be in play if the Lakers are worried about another team superseding their offer, but if the Pacers want the opportunity to draft Ball or Josh Jackson, they'll need include Al Jefferson's pact and their own pick (No. 18) while taking back both Deng and Mozgov. And even then, the Lakers could balk.

Indiana Pacers Receive: SG Wayne Ellington, SF Justise Winslow, No. 14 pick
Miami Heat Receive: SF Paul George
According to David Aldridge of NBA.com, the Pacers are asking George admirers for two first-round picks and a starter. Among every team outside of Cleveland, there may not be one more willing to approach that asking price than the Miami Heat.
Miami team president Pat Riley collects superstars for a living. It seemed like he might change his ways after the Heat almost parlayed a ragtag roster into a playoff berth, but no. League sources told Lowe after the 2017 NBA Finals that Riley is "loading up" to pursue Gordon Hayward. George's availability will undoubtedly catch his eye.
Remove George's impending free agency from the equation, and trading for him is actually preferable to signing Hayward. George will earn around $19.5 million next season—almost $11 million less than Hayward's max salary. The Heat take on a little less than $9 million in extra salary with this package, which still leaves them with more than $20 million to burn on free agents. That's money they can use to re-sign James Johnson and Dion Waiters or chase a second-tier talent like Danilo Gallinari, JaMychal Green or Joe Ingles.
The Heat's 2018 and 2021 first-round picks belong to the Phoenix Suns. They'll need to flip the player they draft at No. 14 to push this deal through—a gray area when you're including Justise Winslow and have been a revolving door for first-round choices since drafting Dwyane Wade in 2003.
Still, they have other young gems on the roster to offset the departure of two more firsts. Tyler Johnson, Rodney McGruder and Josh Richardson ensure the Heat won't pine for perimeter depth, and they made a push for the postseason this year without Winslow.
Give the Pacers Winslow's defense and playmaking and they should pounce, even if they don't believe he'll ever make threes. Wayne Ellington is a nice one-year stopgap following C.J. Miles' inevitable exit, and at this stage of the game, Indiana would be foolish to turn down any lottery pick.
Heck, unless the Heat are unequivocally certain they can prevent George from bolting, they might only dangle one of Winslow and their pick alongside Ellington.

Boston Celtics Receive: Paul George
Indiana Pacers Receive: PG Terry Rozier, No. 37 pick, 2018 first-round pick (via Lakers, protected Nos. 2 through 5) or 2019 first-round pick (more favorable of Sacramento Kings or Philadelphia 76ers, protected No. 1 overall)
The Boston Celtics can blow every imaginable offer for George out of the water. But will they? That's a negative.
Renting George isn't an option the Celtics are considering, according to Basketball Insiders' Steve Kyler. They'll be at the bargaining table because they're always at the bargaining table, but much like the Lakers, they needn't bend over backward to accommodate the Pacers' asking price.
Other squads will lament whiffing on George. The Celtics? They'll just resort to using cap space on another star, like Hayward. That's been the plan all along, and it'll be difficult, albeit not impossible, to add Hayward while also squandering the salary-cap flexibility it'll take to reel in George.
Things change if the Cavaliers fall out of the running and the Lakers aren't coerced into moving on George now. Under those circumstances, the Pacers would be lucky to get for George what the Sacramento Kings brokered for Cousins—Buddy Hield, a top-10 pick and filler.
That kind of an offer is right in the Celtics' wheelhouse. After trading the No. 1 pick to the Philadelphia 76ers, they can assemble a package around the Lakers' protected first-rounder in 2018, which they'll get if it falls between second and fifth overall. If that pick doesn't convey, they'll have the more favorable of the Kings' or Sixers' first-rounder in 2019, unless one of those selections are No. 1 overall.
Receiving a high-end first-rounder by 2019 should pique the Pacers' attention. They'll have Terry Rozier and the No. 37 pick to hold them over in the meantime, and if they desire a more immediate return, they can aim for a combination of Boston's own 2018 selection and 2019 picks from the Los Angeles Clippers and Memphis Grizzlies.
Once more, the Pacers are settling for a below-market return. Then again, with George halfway to Los Angeles, this is the market in which they're shopping.
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Salary information via Basketball Insiders and RealGM.

Paul George might land in Los Angeles by the time the summer is over. It may just not be with the Lakers.
Sean Deveney of Sporting News reported the Clippers have expressed interest in George via potential sign-and-trade. Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and J.J. Redick are set to become free agents this summer and could be sign-and-trade eligible, depending on the parameters of the deal.
The odds of this happening, of course, are highly unlikely. Adding George at the expense of Griffin or Paul would not make the Clippers any closer to unseating the Golden State Warriors out West. That would make Redick the only feasible sign-and-trade player for George, and there is no fathomable scenario in which that type of deal goes down.
Redick is a fine player but turns 33 this week. He's not at a point in his career where he's willing to play for a rebuilding franchise, and adding Redick does nothing to help the Pacers in a post-George teardown. The Clippers are also borderline barren with young assets and draft picks due to poor decisions made by Doc Rivers as head of basketball operations.
The Clippers are interested in George in the same way most of us are interested in driving a Bentley. It sure sounds nice and would probably be a lot of fun, but we don't have any money, and the spare Taco Bell coupons we have to barter with aren't getting the job done.
The Pacers aren't going to lack for options in trading George, even as a one-year rental. They'll find a contender who is willing to pony up actual assets on the chance they'll be able to convince him signing a five-year deal a year from now is better than risking it all for a still-rebuilding team in Los Angeles.
That team just isn't going to be the Clippers. 

The NBA isn't making it easy on experts ahead of the draft. 
Normal years at least make it somewhat easy to predict the first pick and slot some of the interesting names in noteworthy places.
It isn't so simple this year. Yes, Washington's Markelle Fultz should come off the board first, though experts took a wild ride to get there and most didn't have the team selecting him until the Philadelphia 76ers moved up to the No. 1 spot in a trade with the Boston Celtics, according to the Celtics website. 
Experts don't have an easier task from there, with Lonzo Ball not even a certified lock to go to the Los Angeles Lakers, another team perhaps looking to move down, according to ESPN.com's Chad Ford.
Speaking of Ford, one of the globe's premier experts has quite the interesting take on the upcoming draft in his latest mock, where he uses conversations with sources to help form opinions.
Here's a look at the notable picks.
           
Notable Picks
4. Phoenix Suns: De'Aaron Fox

This pick is interesting and fun because here the Phoenix Suns go again—it's time for another Kentucky guard. 
De'Aaron Fox, of course, isn't the typical Kentucky guard. He's reminiscent of John Wall given his up-and-down shooting alongside his elite athleticism and ability to cut to the rim. He's a tad light at 6'3" and 169 pounds, but the framework for one of this year's better points in the class seems there, which is saying a lot considering the quality of the class.
All this aside, Fox is a noteworthy pick here because of other factors. In the rumor suggesting the Lakers might want to move down, it's the Suns looking to do the moving up. And in the mock, Ford points out the Suns hope Ball takes a fall to them because of system fit.
Alas, Fox is one outstanding consolation prize. He'll help former Wildcat Devin Booker get great looks and brings an element to the defensive end of the court the Phoenix backcourt has lacked for years.
           
7. Minnesota Timberwolves: Lauri Markkanen

It's no secret the Minnesota Timberwolves want to add shooting from the forward spot to better space the floor. 
How the front office goes about it isn't so easy to discern, though.
For Ford, Arizona freshman sensation Lauri Markkanen is the obvious fix, especially with Florida State's Jonathan Isaac off the board at No. 6 to the Orlando Magic: "Both are excellent fits for the Wolves, who are looking for a stretch 4. Isaac would offer more upside. Markkanen is more ready now and a more proven shooter."
Markkanen hasn't received a big spotlight ahead of the draft, yet his lack of household-name status shouldn't frustrate Timberwolves fans. He's a gaudy 7'0" and 230 pounds and coming off a season in which he averaged 15.6 points and 7.2 rebounds on 49.2 percent shooting from the floor and 42.3 percent from three-point range.
Minnesota has quite a bit of growing to do despite having one of the league's more compelling young cores. Markkanen spacing the floor for Kris Dunn, Andrew Wiggins and especially Karl-Anthony Towns underneath the basket only helps the situation.
             
8. New York Knicks: Malik Monk

From respected, historic franchise to punch line as of late, the New York Knicks might have a hard time winning over anyone with the eighth pick this year. 
The hype around the Knicks already seems quaint at best thanks to what seems sure to be a wild summer headlined by Phil Jackson and what he decides to do with Carmelo Anthony while Kristaps Porzingis watches on in frustration.
It doesn't help that France's Frank Ntilikina seems like the obvious pick based on how the Knicks have followed him around the world (literally), according to Frank Isola of the New York Daily News.
For Ford, though, Kentucky's Malik Monk is the best option: "Monk may be the highest upside player and best fit of the group. If he lands here, Knicks fans will love him when he heats up."
Versatility is where the 6'3", 185-pound guard looks like a big win for the Knicks. Monk is the definition of an elite combo guard who can score well via shooting or at the rim, yet he can also run the 1 and get others involved. Defense? Monk has it in the on-ball variety as well, though he'll need to bulk up the same way most in this class need to upon arrival.
Monk isn't an overnight fix for the Knicks. But the versatility means he can run either backcourt spot, wiping the Derrick Rose mishap from the mind or bumping an admittedly efficient Courtney Lee out of the way at the 2.
          
9. Dallas Mavericks: Dennis Smith Jr.

Rounding out the notable picks is Mark Cuban and the Dallas Mavericks sitting still and getting quite the steal at No. 9. 
One of the most common comparisons for NC State's Dennis Smith Jr. is Russell Westbrook. For good reason—Smith is arguably the best athlete in the draft, weighing in at 6'2" and 190 pounds with the ability to beat most defenders in a variety of ways, whether he's getting around them or flying by them in transition.
"Ntilikina has great size for his position, plays with strength and displays a great feel. He's also an improving shooter. He reminds me a bit of George Hill. Smith has more athleticism, shoots it better and is more NBA-ready but does not quite possess the same feel for the game," Ford wrote.
Smith has sheer upside, provided teams can look past knee issues he's had over the course of his career. As Ford even comments at the end of the write-up, he'd probably come off the board in the top five of a "normal" draft. 
This year is anything but normal, which is exactly why a team like Dallas needs to get a steal at the most premium position in the league. That's Smith in this scenario.
        
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

Andre Iguodala has been a key part of the Golden State Warriors' success over the past three years, but he could be moving on this offseason.
According to Shams Charania of The Vertical, the free agent will "seriously consider" other teams this offseason. The Utah Jazz, Los Angeles Clippers, Chicago Bulls, Minnesota Timberwolves and Atlanta Hawks are considered the most likely destinations besides the Warriors.
While he expects whichever team he joins to be working its way toward contention, he also could be worth as much as $20 million per year on the open market.
Iguodala spent the past four years with the Warriors, almost exclusively coming off the bench for the last three. Despite the reduced offensive role—he's only averaged 7.9 points per game with Golden State after averaging 15.1 PPG in his first nine seasons—he makes a major impact on both ends of the court.
The 33-year-old also showed a knack for coming through in big moments, most notably winning the NBA Finals MVP in 2015 after averaging 16.3 points and 5.8 rebounds per game to go with quality defense on LeBron James. He also scored 20 points in the clinching Game 5 this postseason.
While the Warriors roster is loaded with All-Stars, Iguodala has been a key to winning two titles in the last three years.
With Golden State having to figure out the contract of Stephen Curry and possibly Kevin Durant before next season, it might be difficult to afford Iguodala's new deal.

While it remains likely Lonzo Ball ends up with the Los Angeles Lakers, nothing is certain just yet.
According to Shams Charania of The Vertical, the team has not provided a guarantee for the No. 2 overall pick. However, Ball's agent, Harrison Gaines, remains in discussion with the team heading into Thursday's draft.
The former UCLA star recently completed his second workout with the team last week, hoping to quiet any conditioning-related concerns from the first one.
According to Ramona Shelburne of ESPN, the visit was considered "solid."
With the expectation the Philadelphia 76ers select Markelle Fultz with their recently acquired No. 1 pick, it leaves Ball as the next best option. Of course, the lack of guarantee could be in the off chance Philadelphia goes in a different direction and Fultz remains available.
Still, Ball would be a quality pick as a local product who really wants to play for the Lakers. His outspoken father, LaVar, even declared Los Angeles would be the only team he works out for, a promise he lived up to in the last few weeks.
The family will now wait to see if this gamble pays off in Thursday's draft.

The NBA draft is quickly approaching, but one major trade has created some changes at the top of the class.
The Boston Celtics agreed to trade the No. 1 pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for the No. 3 pick and future assets, per ESPN. All of a sudden, the projected top player in Markelle Fultz looks like he is heading to a new team, and the rest of the draft needs to accommodate. 
According to ESPN's Chad Ford's latest mock draft, Fultz will remain the No. 1 overall pick to the 76ers, while Lonzo Ball stays at No. 2 to the Los Angeles Lakers. The change comes with Josh Jackson becoming the No. 3 to the Celtics.
Here is a breakdown of some of the more notable picks from the expert's latest mock.
        
Philadelphia 76ers: Markelle Fultz
Fultz could have helped the Celtics as someone who can play on or off the ball. After averaging 23.2 points, 5.9 assists, 5.7 rebounds, 1.6 steals and 1.2 blocks per game as a freshman at Washington, it's clear he can make an impact in a lot of ways.
However, Adam Himmelsbach of the Boston Globe provided a reasoning for the recent trade:
The Celtics' overflowing backcourt also factored into their decision to pass on Fultz, sources say.
With Isaiah Thomas and Avery Bradley already starting at the guard spots and Marcus Smart also proving useful, adding another player at the same position isn't quite as necessary.
Fultz is a much better fit with the 76ers, a squad that has spent early picks on big men in recent years but needs a lot of help in the backcourt. He can both run the offense and defend opposing point guards, providing some useful balance on this roster.
Even if last year's pick, Ben Simmons, plays some point guard, Fultz will still be valuable in other ways. 
       
Los Angeles Lakers: Lonzo Ball

The Lakers haven't quite guaranteed Ball will end up with the team, according to Shams Charania of The Vertical. Still, it would be a significant surprise if he wasn't taken No. 2 overall.
Per ESPN, the UCLA point guard had a second workout with Los Angeles this week, attempting to answer any lingering questions the squad might have. He even displayed his training schedules after doubts about his conditioning arose in the first workout.
Ball is one of the best true point guards to come out of college in years, leading college basketball with 7.6 assists per game last season. He was the catalyst behind one of the top offenses in the country.
The Lakers already have a lot of young talent on the roster, but the California native has the ability to get the most out of the people around him.
Considering he is also arguably the biggest name in the class, this selection will only help add excitement to a franchise in need of a boost.
         
Boston Celtics: Josh Jackson
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
Moving away from the No. 1 pick is always risky, but the Celtics could end up with a great player in Josh Jackson if everything goes well.
Jackson is a versatile wing who knows how to score when either attacking the basket or knocking down shots from the perimeter (37.8 percent shooting from three-point range last year). He has good athleticism at 6'8" that will allow him to remain a consistent threat at the next level.
The former Kansas player also showed in his freshman season the ability to fit in with a winning team. He is an excellent passer for his size and is an elite defender who can match up against multiple positions. This makes him a perfect addition for a ready-made contender that was the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference last season.
While he might not put up huge numbers in his first year, he might be the most valuable rookie in the class.
Although no one wants to select a role player with one of the first few picks of the draft, Jackson's upside remains high. Even if he takes on a secondary spot in the rotation in his first season, the talented player could still be a star down the line.

Free agency and the NBA Draft have yet to play out this summer, but the core of the NBA champion Golden State Warriors is expected to remain intact heading into next season.
That said, the Warriors will be going for their third NBA championship in four years as solid -150 betting favorites (wager $150 to win $100) over the rest of their competition.
However, one could easily argue that the main reason Golden State is such a big favorite is due to the lack of competition. Sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark have the Cleveland Cavaliers at +300 (bet $100 to win $300) to bring home their second title in three seasons as the overwhelming second choice, with the Boston Celtics a distant third at +1200 along with the San Antonio Spurs.
Cleveland star LeBron James has a player option in his contract to opt out of his current deal in 2018, so the team will have him at least one more year before he potentially decides to leave his hometown again.
Rumors have been swirling that Indiana Pacers small forward Paul George will leave then as well, so he could be traded to the Cavaliers or the Los Angeles Lakers, who are reportedly his preferred destination when he becomes a free agent. The Pacers are +10,000 long shots to win the NBA title and have little chance to do so next year with or without George on board.
A Cleveland team with George, though, could rival the Warriors, likely setting up a fourth consecutive NBA Finals matchup between them.
Meanwhile, the Celtics continue to pile up draft picks after agreeing to send the No. 1 overall selection to the Philadelphia 76ers this year. Boston earned the top seed in the Eastern Conference last year and figures to be a force in the years to come, too.
But the Celtics would find it very difficult to get past the Cavs in the East next season, even if they add an impact free agent like Gordon Hayward, who has spent his entire career with the Utah Jazz.
The Spurs and Houston Rockets (+2000) are still Golden State's main competition in the West, but both of them have serious matchup problems.

The rest of the NBA pulled off a rather remarkable feat over the past few days, drowning out the noise around the Los Angeles Lakers with stunning predraft developments.
Well, mostly.
Before a wild purported trade, the Lakers were the talk of the Association for various reasons, chief among them a deep connection to Lonzo Ball.
Now? The narratives center on the Philadelphia 76ers moving to No. 1 in the draft after a trade with the Boston Celtics that is expected to be official Monday, according to TNT's David Aldridge. The other major spotlight goes to Paul George, who told the Indiana Pacers he'll hit the open market in 2018 and likes, of course, the Lakers, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski.
Fine, so the Lakers are involved a little bit in the above. But the how and why aren't so obvious, so let's take a look at the rumblings around the Lakers, who seem a little bit under the radar right now, all things considered.
              
Lakers Willing to Move Down?

The idea the Lakers might make a trade down in the draft during these exciting times isn't what most fans probably want to hear.
Apologies. The good news? Lakers fans have waited this long for the front office to work through the throes of a long-term rebuild, so waiting a little longer can't hurt too much.
According to ESPN.com's Chad Ford, the Lakers have entertained the idea of moving down via a trade with the Phoenix Suns: "But another scenario has piqued the franchise's interest. The Lakers held internal discussions about trading back two spots to No. 4 if the Suns were to offer them a 2018 first-round pick. The Suns hold their own 2018 pick (which currently projects to be a high lottery pick) as well as the rights to the Miami Heat's 2018 pick."
Los Angeles might not be interested in the Miami pick because of the trade protections, but a first-round pick from the Suns in 2018 for moving down two spots doesn't sound like a bad deal given the pace of the rebuild.
Dropping two places won't mean the end of the world for the Lakers in the long run. They won't get a shot at Markelle Fultz after the trade for No. 1 anyway. Ball could easily fall to No. 4, and if not, the Lakers could still get a quality forward such as Josh Jackson or Jayson Tatum, not to mention an explosive point like De'Aaron Fox.
Either way, a move down gives the Lakers options. The point guard position is clearly something president of basketball operations Magic Johnson and the front office want to address, though grabbing a forward and running more small ball while shifting around guys like Brandon Ingram isn't out of the question.
And if a slight move down goes through, the team could pick quite high in next year's draft while pursuing big-name free agents like George, too.
              
Near-Miss on a Move Up

Then again, the other side to this was the chance the Lakers might try to pull off a blockbuster of their own by moving up to No. 1.
This idea came up quite often in circles here and there, though the obvious flaw was whether the Lakers would be able to keep up in a bidding war. By the end of the Celtics-76ers talks, compensation reached a ridiculous three first-round picks, according to Wojnarowski.
He later explained the Lakers had an interest in sticking in the sweepstakes as long as possible:
Lakers had interest in pursuing a deal for No. 1 pick/Fultz, but Sixers ability to potentially deliver 3 FRP's in deal too much to overcome. s://t.co/9aBUwqVMiq
This should say everything fans need to know about Fultz more than what the Lakers want to do from a positional standpoint.
Fultz might not be the sheer passer and floor general Ball is, but he's an athletic, versatile guard who can shoot from range and get others involved. Philadelphia thought him special enough to gamble the future so he could play alongside Ben Simmons, Dario Saric and Joel Embiid.
From the sounds of it, Los Angeles wanted to do something similar with D'Angelo Russell, Ingram and Julius Randle, not to mention a possible major free-agent add.
Alas, the Lakers came up short in the ammunition department. Based on the above ideas, they're open to almost anything, including a move down.
                
The Paul George Conundrum

Based on the note from Wojnarowski, it sounds like the Lakers could have George right now if they really wanted him.
Silence on the part of the Lakers right now, though, suggests quite a bit.
According to a report by ESPN.com, the Lakers don't have any plans to give up a big haul for the soon-to-be free agent: "Although George would constitute a significant acquisition for Los Angeles, the rebuilding Lakers do not currently intend to part with any of their young assets in a trade with the Pacers, sources told ESPN's Ramona Shelburne."
This should be right along the lines of what Lakers fans want to hear.
Indiana's already working the phones, yet, as Wojnarowski pointed out, this classifies as a rental market:
Sources: Indiana's Kevin Pritchard engaging teams on trading Paul George, but so far, not Lakers. There's a rental market, but how robust? s://t.co/oM9XrATMr9
If it's a rental market and George has made it clear the Lakers are his preferred destination, why cough up hard-earned (well, in a way) assets accumulated over the course of a rebuild to get him now?
Take it a step further—letting another team grab George as a rental and keeping every future-looking piece only makes the Lakers look more attractive to George in 2018. Bring him to town now and make him suffer through what could be a rough growing season for the young roster and, well, maybe he again takes a peek at the market in 2018 anyway.
The biggest risk here is the Cleveland Cavaliers stepping in and stealing George via trade, which is something it sounds like the Finals participants might do, according to Sam Amico of Fox Sports Ohio. If George goes to Cleveland, wins a ring and makes a pact with LeBron James to stay in town, hindsight won't look kindly on inaction by the Lakers right now.
At the end of the day, there's something admirable about the Lakers sticking to their rebuilding plan and not getting overzealous about this situation. It seems the front office would agree on the idea of not allowing the threat of hindsight to force a potential mistake.
              
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

Dirk Nowitzki, Kemba Walker, Thabo Sefolosha and Luol Deng will serve as co-captains for the 2017 NBA Africa Game, the league announced in a statement Monday.
The game will take place Aug. 5 at the Ticketpro Dome in Johannesburg, South Africa. The NBA held its first exhibition in South Africa in 2015, which featured players of African descent taking on players who hail from the United States or other countries.
Nowitzki and Walker will captain Team World, while Sefolosha and Deng are captains for Team Africa.
Sefolosha, who is from Switzerland, has one parent who is from South Africa. Deng hails from the South Sudan. Bismack Biyombo and Emmanuel Mudiay were already announced as players for Team Africa in February. 
"Having South African roots, it's a dream come true to return to South Africa to play in an NBA game," Sefolosha said in a statement. "There are so many talented African players in the league, and it will be an honor to lead them on August 5 in Johannesburg."
Walker and Nowitzki will be joined by CJ McCollum on Team World. Full rosters for the event will be announced at a later date.
"I'm really excited to represent Team World in the second NBA Africa Game this summer," Nowitzki said in a statement. "I also look forward to returning to South Africa after taking part in the Basketball without Borders Africa camp eight years ago. It's great to see how the game is growing across the continent, and I'm honored to be a part of this historic event."
The game will benefit UNICEF, the Nelson Mandela Foundation and SOS Children's Villages South Africa (SOSCVSA).

Warning: NSFW language in linked post.
One Toronto Raptors fan on Reddit is so sure the team will land Paul George that they promised to "tattoo a dinosaur on my ass" if it doesn't.
There was one catch: The post must receive 2,000 upvotes. It got nearly 26,000 in 12 hours.
The user, doritopope, linked to the specific dinosaur they'll get inked if Masai Ujiri doesn't acquire the star forward, who plans to leave the Indiana Pacers, per The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski.
Toronto hasn't been reported as a major player for PG-13, though it's not like the four-time All-Star hasn't pondered playing alongside DeMar DeRozan before:
Yo I wouldn't mind hoopin for toronto my followers.. Me and Demar will go to work!
Be sure to circle back to that thread if George is dealt to another team; the Los Angeles Lakers or Cleveland Cavaliers seem most likely at this point.
[h/t Reddit]

The 2017 NBA draft is now only days away—June 22, to be exact—and the mounting excitement is palpable. It's looking like Washington product Markelle Fultz is going to be the first overall pick in the draft, but beyond that, there is drama aplenty.
Will the Los Angeles Lakers pass on high-profile prospect Lonzo Ball? Just how high will defensive standout Josh Jackson go? The only thing we know for sure is that the drama, storylines and rumors are only going to heat up as the draft approaches.
We're here to break down some of the latest draft-related storylines, along with our predictions for the end results. We'll also mock the entire first round based on factors like prospect potential, team needs and team fits.
          
2017 NBA Mock Draft
1. Philadelphia 76ers (via Boston): Markelle Fultz, G, Washington
2. Los Angeles Lakers: Lonzo Ball, G, UCLA
3. Boston Celtics (via Philadelphia): Josh Jackson, F, Kansas
4. Phoenix Suns: De'Aaron Fox, G, Kentucky
5. Sacramento Kings (via Philadelphia): Jayson Tatum, F, Duke
6. Orlando Magic: Malik Monk, G, Kentucky
7. Minnesota Timberwolves: Jonathan Isaac, F, Florida State
8. New York Knicks: Lauri Markkanen, F, Arizona
9. Dallas Mavericks: Dennis Smith Jr., G, NC State
10. Sacramento Kings (via New Orleans): Frank Ntilikina, G, France
11. Charlotte Hornets: Zach Collins, C, Gonzaga
12. Detroit Pistons: Harry Giles, C, Duke
13. Denver Nuggets: Ivan Rabb, F, California
14. Miami Heat: Justin Jackson, F, North Carolina
15. Portland Trail Blazers: John Collins, F, Wake Forest
16. Chicago Bulls: Luke Kennard, G, Duke
17. Milwaukee Bucks: Jarrett Allen, C, Texas
18. Indiana Pacers: Tony Bradley, C, North Carolina
19. Atlanta Hawks:  TJ Leaf, F, UCLA
20. Portland Trail Blazers (via Memphis): Dwayne Bacon, F, Florida State
21. Oklahoma City Thunder: OG Anunoby, F, Indiana
22. Brooklyn Nets (via Washington):  Isaiah Hartenstein, F, Germany
23. Toronto Raptors (via LA Clippers): Jordan Bell, F, Oregon
24. Utah Jazz: Justin Patton, C, Creighton
25. Orlando Magic (via Toronto): Caleb Swanigan, F, Purdue
26. Portland Trail Blazers: (via Cleveland): Josh Hart, G, Villanova
27. Brooklyn Nets (via Boston): Sindarius Thornwell, G, South Carolina
28. Los Angeles Lakers (via Houston): Donovan Mitchell, G, Louisville
29. San Antonio Spurs: Terrance Ferguson, G, Australia
30. Utah Jazz (via Golden State): Frank Jackson, G, Duke
               
Latest Buzz
76ers to Trade up for Fultz
We mentioned that Fultz is expected to be the first overall pick in the draft. However, it appears Fultz won't be drafted by the Boston Celtics—who own the No. 1 pick as of this writing—but by the Philadelphia 76ers.
According to TNT's David Aldridge, the 76ers and Celtics are set to finalize a trade that will give Philly the top selection:
Trade between Philly and Boston will be finalized on Monday, per source. Sides have agreed. Sixers will get first pick and take Fultz.
According to Aldridge, the 76ers will take Fultz. This makes sense, as Fultz is the type of young, offensive talent that can help support the pieces the team already has in place. If young players like Jahlil Okafor, Ben Simmons and Joel Embiid can reach their full potential, the 76ers could have a dangerous roster moving forward.
As Kevin O'Conner of The Ringer recently explained, Fultz is the perfect complement for Simmons, in particular:
"For this year's draft, the Sixers needed a player who could offset Simmons's weakness by providing another source of playmaking while also offering spot-up shooting ability and versatile defense. Fultz does all of that in ways no player available at the third slot could; that's why losing one of their two valuable future firsts is worth it."
Philadelphia has essentially spent the last few years tanking in order to set up the type of roster the team wants. Now with this trade, the 76ers are in position to complete the rebuilding effort. Don't be surprised if the addition of Fultz is enough to set the Sixers up as a playoff team within the next couple of years.
Philadelphia and Boston might not be done making moves before the draft either. According to Ramona Shelburne of ESPN.com, the deal is being done now so that the teams can potentially make more moves before the draft:
General league reaction to Sixers-Celtics trade: There's a reason it's happening early. Both teams still maneuvering.
         
Are the First Five Players Set?
It certainly appears that the 76ers are set to make Fultz the No. 1 overall pick in the draft. After that, though, we don't know which players are going to be drafted—or do we?
According to Broderick Turner of the Los Angeles Times, NBA executives believe the first five picks will be Fultz, Ball, Jackson, Kentucky's De'Aaron Fox and Duke's Jayson Tatum. It's only the draft order that has to play out.
"It's going to be those five guys," one NBA executive said, per Turner. "But the order they are going to be in, nobody knows. Some teams are sending out smoke signals. And then there are these trade rumors that could have an effect on the draft order."
According to Turner, league executives also believe that Ball is destined to go to the Lakers at No. 2.
Now, no one should be surprised if these are the first five players taken in the draft, as they've all been considered top prospects throughout much of the process. However, it also shouldn't be a surprise if a shooter like Kentucky's Malik Monk or a big like Florida State's Jonathan Isaac cracks the top five.
We should be equally unfazed if the Lakers end up passing on Ball. While the two parties have seemed destined to unite, questions about the union have begun to creep up.
Steve Kyler of Basketball Insiders believes the Lakers aren't sold on Ball:
I think Fultz won't be there... Not sold Lakers brass believes Lonzo is their guy. They seem to be struggling with him. s://t.co/ZQm0qTHizF
My guess is that if the Lakers aren't truly locked in on Ball, they'll try trading away the pick rather than simply selecting a different player at No. 2. If L.A. believes a guy like Fox or Tatum is a safer pick, the team may be able to move down a few spots and still get their guy.
Of course, if the Lakers are sold on Ball, they could be creating doubt in order to get something in return from the Celtics—who appear to want Jackson. The Lakers could try selling the idea that they're zeroing in on Jackson in an effort to trade back a spot with Boston.
Ultimately, I don't think we're done seeing moves made inside the top five.
          
Kurucs Withdraws from Draft
International player Rodions Kurucs was looking like a possible first-round pick heading into the draft. However, the Barcelona player appears headed back to international play for at least another season.
According to Dan Feldman of Pro Basketball Talk, Kurucs has decided to withdraw from the draft.
Kurucs has good size at 6'8" and 200 pounds. He is also a versatile athlete who can play multiple positions on the floor. The problem is that Kurucs has already experienced a couple of major injuries in his career and he is still developing as a player.
"[He] hasn't really be tested against elite competition," Stefanos Makris of NBADraft.net wrote of Kurucs. "He really needs to add some muscle, since he barely weighs 200 pounds. He might not [be] afraid of contact, but he can't really absorb it at the moment."
Since Kurucs is an international player and not bound to NCAA rules, so he can try entering the draft again next year. He'll likely spend the next year building up his body and showing that past injuries shouldn't be a concern for NBA teams.

The Boston Celtics have plenty of work to do if they want to usurp the Cleveland Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference.
The Celts were eliminated in five games by the Cavs last month in the Eastern Conference Final, and it's clear they are still playing catch-up.
General manager Danny Ainge did not think having the No. 1 pick in the upcoming draft was enough to close the gap.
That may be one of the reasons the Celtics and the Philadelphia 76ers are expected to finalize a deal on Monday that sends the No. 1 pick to Philadelphia for the No. 3 overall pick and the 2018 Los Angeles Lakers' first-round pick, with certain conditions, per NBA insider David Aldridge.
If those conditions are not met, the Celtics will get a 2019 Sacramento Kings first-round pick, which is also owned by the 76ers.
But don't think that the Celtics are finished making deals at this point. 
One of the trades they could make involves Gordon Hayward of the Utah Jazz. Jordan Schultz of the Huffington Post reported last week that his sources believe the Celtics are the favorites to complete a trade to acquire his services.
The 6'8", 226-pound Hayward is coming off an excellent year with the Jazz, as he averaged 21.9 points per game while shooting 47.1 percent from the field. Hayward, 27, has increased his scoring total in each of his seven seasons, and he also averages 5.4 rebounds per game.
Hayward would clearly give the Celtics an upgrade in their front court, and they seem likely to use the pick they received from the Sixers to draft a forward.
Jimmy Butler's name is now being mentioned in several trade rumors involving the Celtics and others s://t.co/daz0d4fUEN s://t.co/uGmrKvlAwq
The Celtics may be looking at additional trades as well. NBA writer Keith Smith and Sean Deveney of Sporting News both reported that Ainge is looking for additional deals that could strengthen the team. 

The Los Angeles Lakers have discussed acquiring a second lottery pick in the 2017 NBA draft in hopes of adding perimeter help.
ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne reported the Lakers have engaged with two teams ahead of Thursday's draft, though it's unclear how far along talks have become.
The Lakers currently hold the Nos. 2 and 28 picks in the first round. They are widely expected to select UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball with the second pick, meaning they would likely attempt to use No. 28 and another asset to move up.
ESPN's Chad Ford believes the Lakers are "dangling" D'Angelo Russell in an attempt to land a top 12 pick, with Luke Kennard and Zach Collins being the "targets." 
Finding a workable trade in this scenario will be the difficult part. If the Lakers are dead-set on Ball, they could make Jordan Clarkson or D'Angelo Russell available for lottery teams. Julius Randle is the only other young asset likely enticing enough packaged with No. 28 to get a team inside the lottery to consider a move.
Lakers president Magic Johnson has made Brandon Ingram untouchable. Johnson isn't likely to change that stance for a pick that would amount to taking a value downgrade from Ingram, who struggled last season but was still the No. 2 overall pick.
Shelburne reported the Lakers are looking to add outside shooting and perimeter defense, two things the team hoped Ingram would provide when selecting him out of Duke.
Depending on how high they want to move up, players like Indiana's OG Anunoby and Louisville's Donovan Mitchell feel like the best potential late-lottery targets. Mitchell would be something of a natural replacement for Lou Williams, whom the Lakers traded at the deadline. 

The Cleveland Cavaliers officially announced Goodyear as their jersey partner beginning in the 2017-18 season Monday. 
"This partnership had to be something that our entire franchise, and specifically our team, believed in and can now be inspired by. Having the Wingfoot become part of the actual fabric of our identity does that," Cavaliers general manager David Griffin said in a statement. "The connection represents something deeper than basketball and is forged on a common platform to operate physically and culturally at the highest level. We can't imagine a more appropriate partner than Goodyear, and the team will have a unique depth of pride wearing the Wingfoot on the court as we compete."
Goodyear's famed "wingfoot" logo will appear in navy on the Cavs' road wine-and-gold uniforms and in wine on their home whites. Bloomberg's Scott Soshnick, who first broke the deal in February, reported the deal will be for three years and worth between $5-10 million per season.
Darren Rovell of ESPN shared an image of the logo placement:
FIRST LOOK: Goodyear logo on Cavaliers game jersey starting next season s://t.co/JlsJzj1ME3
The Cavaliers are one of at least six teams with a partnership deal for 2017-18. The NBA announced last April that corporate logos would be allowed on jerseys starting next season, which coincides with a new apparel agreement with Nike.
Retail replica jerseys sold to fans will not have the patch, which will be in the upper left quadrant above the city or team name.
Goodyear is based out of LeBron James' hometown of Akron, Ohio, and the four-time MVP said the agreement will carry special meaning to his community. 
"Every Akron kid grew up seeing the Wingfoot in the sky on the blimp and feeling pride in our community," James said. "There is something special for me personally about having that logo on the Cavs uniform. Goodyear is also very supportive of the LeBron James Family Foundation. I can't imagine a better situation with our new Cavs jersey than bringing together Nike and Goodyear, two companies that mean a lot to me and my family."
Turner Sports, which owns Bleacher Report, will serve as Goodyear's media partner for the agreement. Turner will create branded content and advertising for the jersey patch. 
A few weeks ago, in a fit of mild frustration, LeBron James grabbed a beer.
It wasn’t because he was thirsty, or stressed, or in need of refreshment. He didn’t even take a sip—because, well, he had free throws to shoot and a playoff game to win. No, LeBron grabbed the beer because it was there, because a vendor happened to be ambling by at the same moment that James—annoyed with himself for missing a layup—hopped toward the sideline.
He grabbed the beer and took a mock-swig because, hey, why not? It was playful and spontaneous, and J.R. Smith cracked up, and everyone else did, too.
Then James stepped to the foul line and sank his free throws, and the Cleveland Cavaliers rollicked and rolled to a victory over the Toronto Raptors.
It was a good night for James—35 points and 10 rebounds—but it wasn’t his muscular dominance that was seared into memory. It was the whimsy. It was the spontaneity. It was the joy.
It’s fun to be LeBron.
And, as Smith’s laughter attested, it’s fun to be in his orbit.

The winning is nice, sure: the trips to the NBA Finals, the shirtless, sun-scorched parades, the fame and fortune—all enjoyable. Hang with LeBron, and you’ll bear witness to basketball history. But you’ll also flat-out laugh on a fairly regular basis.
When the mood strikes, James might break into a ridiculous dance on the sideline, or swipe french fries from a kid sitting courtside, or high-five a throng of raucous Celtics fans, or start a bottle-flipping contest on the bench. He’ll lip-sync to Rick Astley. He’ll shimmy to the Harlem Shake.
“Man,” former teammate Donyell Marshall says, “that dude’s the biggest kid there is.”
James will lead the Cavaliers into the Eastern Conference Finals on Wednesday, their third straight and his seventh, and we’ll soon resume the weighty debates over legacy and greatness and which part of Mt. Rushmore needs a facelift.
The Cavs will be heavily favored, regardless of the opponent, which means James could soon be making his seventh straight appearance in the NBA Finals, with a shot at his fourth championship.
At 32 years old, with three rings in the safe and permanent residency on the NBA’s all-time scoring and assists lists, LeBron James has plenty to be happy about.
He’s enjoying one of the greatest postseasons of his career, averaging 34.4 points, 9.0 rebounds and 7.1 assists while shooting a career-best 46.8 percent from three-point range. He’s hardly seen a stressful moment since the playoffs began, leading the Cavs to sweeps of Indiana and Toronto.
In recent weeks, he’s passed Kobe Bryant and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar on the postseason scoring charts, and leapfrogged Shaquille O’Neal in playoff field goals.

With the clock running and the ball in his hands, James has been laser-focused and lethally efficient. On the postgame podium, he’s been loose, engaging. And in the moments in between, occasionally goofy.
He’s a nuclear-powered bulldozer disguised as a smiley emoticon.
That hand-slapping celebration in Boston came right after James obliterated Marcus Smart’s layup with a two-handed block from behind.
“He’s always been fun,” says Dru Joyce II, who coached James at Akron’s St. Vincent-St. Mary High School. “He’s always been a jokester. He’s always been that guy. He’s enjoying the game. It’s supposed to be fun. And he understands he can entertain a little bit and make this stuff good. That’s good to see, that he can still have fun with it.”
He always has. As a high school senior, James converted a breakaway, between-the-legs dunk and promptly took a joyful lap around the court, igniting a packed house at the University of Akron gym.
“He’s always been an entertainer,” Joyce says. “I used to think, ‘Maybe you’ll be a standup comedian if basketball doesn’t work.’”
It all seems preposterously obvious—success and joy should go hand in hand. Yet it’s often not the case in this testosterone-fueled arena, where players are judged based on their athletic prowess and dunks are rated by the humiliation they inflict.

Joy and fun are distant parts of the lexicon.
Tim Duncan won five titles with a metronomic efficiency and an infamous stoicism. If he was having fun, only he knew for sure. Kobe Bryant cast himself as a ruthless killer—in the mold of his idol Michael Jordan—and got his five rings while beating everyone (teammates included) into submission. If he smiled, it was probably because he’d just removed someone’s still-beating heart and tomahawked it through the rim.
Jordan had his impish moments—a sly grin, a coy shrug—but they were less expressions of joy than gestures of subtle ego-flexing. Hey, I can’t believe I just did that, either.
Russell Westbrook scowls and snarls and stomps. James Harden performs like a tortured artist—could we even see a smile behind that bohemian beard? Kawhi Leonard is almost assuredly a cyborg.
To be one of the most fearsome players in the game, and simultaneously one of its most overtly joyful, is rare indeed. Among modern-day superstars, only Shaq fused those traits so seamlessly, an MVP doubling as the class clown.
“He’s natural,” Cavs veteran James Jones says of James. “He understands that basketball is not everything. Life is so much bigger than basketball, but basketball is our life. And so we have to enjoy it. It can’t be consistently something where there’s no love, there’s no joy, there’s no passion. Because it requires you to go and give everything you have, and you don’t do that unless you love something or love someone.”

In his early years as a young NBA phenom, James was a constant source of locker room mirth—“jumping on people, messing with people”—Marshall says, and yakking away on the team plane.
“We’re like, ‘Dude, will you sit down? We’re trying to sleep!’” Marshall says, laughing.
There’s a burden that comes with vying for the title of Greatest Of All Time—an expectation that every game should end in victory, and every season should end in a parade. It can be suffocating.
The Cavs felt the pressure from the moment James returned—every stumble documented, dissected and exaggerated. Winning the title last year brought momentary relief, but the doubts were stoked anew as the Cavs meandered to 51 wins and a second-place finish in the East.
James recorded one of his best statistical seasons—averaging 26.4 points, 8.6 rebounds and 8.7 assists—and yet was an afterthought in the MVP race. When you’re LeBron, even your best sometimes isn’t good enough to please the masses.
“A strange season,” James called it.
When LeBron spontaneously busts a move or grabs a microbrew, it’s a subtle reminder to teammates: It’s just a game.
“This team needs it,” Jones says. “It allows guys to understand that the human element still exists, even when you’re on a mission like we are.”

Joy, of course, might be in the eye of the beholder. When LeBron and Danny Green busted a move to House of Pain’s “Jump Around” during a 2009 game against Chicago, the Cavs were all smiles. Bulls center Joakim Noah took offense and barked his displeasure.
“I don’t think he means disrespect,” Green says of James, “but he likes to have fun and finds different ways to keep loose.”
So Google will direct you to clips of LeBron pantomiming a team photo, singing along with Drake and Fetty Wap, dancing to Eminem, Kanye and Kendrick, or just boogeying his way to the court.
“It’s all genuine,” says Cavs assistant coach Damon Jones, who played three seasons with James. “Because you can’t fake that. You can’t say, ‘Well, today I’m going to be funny.’”
There are, too, endless videos highlighting James’ flops and flails and varied missteps—“Not one, not two…”—but it’s been a long time since The Decision and the Smoke-Filled Rally and the narratives that cast James as a villain for daring to leave Cleveland for Miami.
It’s been six years since James, in a rare sullen moment, told his critics they would have to “wake up tomorrow and have the same life that they had before.”
For a time, it seemed, James had lost the joy.
“It was a lot more anger than love,” Joyce notes, “and you gotta do this thing out of love.”
James won a championship the next spring, and another after that. Last June, he got his third, this one for Cleveland, eliciting a burst of smiles and happy tears, a promise fulfilled, his most joyous moment yet.

If James never wins another MVP trophy or another title, he will still go down as one of the greatest to play the game, and perhaps that knowledge allows him to treat each night as a celebration.
As James himself said earlier this month, “There isn't anything I have left to prove.”
“Every day he walks into this place, he has a smile on his face,” James Jones says. “He’s laughing, he’s joking, he’s giggling, he’s excited, he’s upbeat. Because if you think about his life in general, he’s spent maybe two-thirds of his life on this hardwood. And you only do that if you really love the hardwood. I couldn’t tell you what the drive in is like, when he’s waking up in the morning, he’s stiff, or he’s tired. But I can tell you once he gets here, these are the happiest moments of his day.”
Yes, greatness requires validation and validation requires ringzzz and on and on. James knows it. He’s lived it. Those debates will rage regardless of what he does today, tomorrow or next year. That’s about legacy.
The game is about joy.
Howard Beck covers the NBA for Bleacher Report and is a senior writer for B/R Mag. Follow him on Twitter, @HowardBeck.
Mike Monroe contributed reporting from San Antonio.
Click here to get B/R Mag on the go in the new B/R app for more sports storytelling worth your time, wherever you are.

The Los Angeles Lakers are slated to make two selections in the 2017 NBA draft, but they only know the location of one of them.
That would be the 28th pick, acquired from the Houston Rockets at the deadline for super-sub Lou Williams.
It's not a position that typically yields great value, though it is where the San Antonio Spurs nabbed Tony Parker in 2001. More often, it's produced role players such as Leandro Barbosa, Ian Mahinmi and Wayne Ellington or forgettable flops such as Erick Barkley, Maurice Ager and Perry Jones III.
However, with a draft class this deep, the Lakers could be one of the lucky ones. When this choice comes on the clock, there should be some attractive options available, including prospects who can repair their faulty defense or fill current roster vacancies. 
These five players in particular should be in L.A.'s crosshairs, and all can be found at or near the 28th pick in various mock drafts.

One look at Ike Anigbogu's UCLA statsheet says he has no business being in the NBA draft, let alone its first round.
A preseason meniscus tear put him behind the eightball, and the big man never fully closed the gap. By year's end, he held paltry per-game averages of just 4.7 points, 4.0 rebounds and 13.0 minutes, although his 3.7 blocks per 40 minutes jumped off the page nonetheless.
Shift the focus to Anigbogu's physical tools, though, and he looks like he has no business being around when the No. 28 pick comes on the clock.
"He came in at slightly under 6'10", but he also has a 7'6"-plus wingspan to pair with a 9'2 ½" standing reach and an outrageous 5.4 percent body fat at 252 pounds," Sporting News' Sam Vecenie wrote. "Among big men, Anigbogu's measurements were best."
Anigbogu's blend of length, power and athleticism could be the perfect backbone to strengthen L.A.'s last-ranked defense. He is quick on his feet, fast off the ground, fluid in direction changes and consistently operating at maximum energy level.
He won't turn 19 until October, and his limited offensive game speaks to his rawness. While he's active as a rim-runner and offensive rebounder, he's neither a shooter nor a post scorer. But the Lakers would be glad to cover his shortcomings at that end if he could help stop the bleeding at the other.

Hamidou Diallo could follow the none-and-done path Milwaukee Bucks rookie big man Thon Maker blazed. Diallo started last season at a prep school before spending the spring semester practicing—but not playing—at Kentucky.
Drafting Diallo would require a leap of faith since he's short on experience, game film and polish. But like Maker, Diallo's natural gifts—which start with the 6'11 ¼" wingspan sprawling out of his 6'5" frame—are rich enough to intrigue suitors, particularly those with multiple first-round selections.
He aced the athletic testing portion of the NBA combine, placing among the top 10 in max vertical leap (first), standing vertical leap (seventh), three-quarter sprint (third), shuttle run (second) and lane agility (10th). His absurd 44 ½" max vertical was the second-highest in combine history.
His jumper isn't NBA-ready, and the same could be said of his awareness, handle and passing. But his enormous upside—ESPN Insider Chad Ford said a year at Kentucky "could put him in the lottery"—seems like a gamble worth taking this late in the round.
"The talent is there for him to play in the NBA; he is a great athlete, and there is no reason he can't bring his shot around," a scout told Sporting News' Sean Deveney. "He has good enough form. He can defend; I mean look at that wingspan."
The Lakers are loaded with young players who can run and gun, so a transition terror like Diallo would fit right in.

The Lakers have a depth problem at point guard. Even if D'Angelo Russell is the present and future at the position, there is precious little behind him. Marcelo Huertas and Jose Calderon were both discarded during the season, while journeyman Tyler Ennis is now an unrestricted free agent.
Assuming this spot isn't addressed with a top-three pick, L.A. could find its plug-and-play reserve in Jawun Evans.
He's small in stature—only 5'11 ½" in shoes at the NBA Draft Combine—but large in statistics. The All-American was one of only two players to average at least 19 points and six assists last season, keeping defenders off-balance with crafty handles and rapid changes of speed and direction.
His lack of size and good-not-great athleticism present obvious problems on defense and around the rim. But he's tough, fearless and motivated to prove his size-obsessed naysayers wrong.
"The things I've been through in my lifetime, I've kind of [had] a chip on my shoulder with people telling me I'm small," he said, per Eddie Sefko of the Dallas Morning News. "I just kept working and got my foot in the door and that's how I got here."
Provided Evans' perimeter shooting translates more with its efficiency (career 40.7 percent) than its volume (55 makes in 54 games), he could end L.A.'s search for Russell's understudy.

Who is Harry Giles—the top recruit of this freshman class or a falling star forever tarnished by injuries?
Right now, he's a little of both. He's been on NBA radars forever, making his first USA Basketball camp appearance at only 14 years old. He spent his prep career ranked higher than his one-and-done peers who now fill the top spots on every mock draft.
But his medical history reads like a Stephen King novel. Giles had three knee surgeries between 2013 and 2016, tearing ACLs in both knees plus the MCL and meniscus in his left knee. He was clearly limited by injuries at Duke, where he averaged only 3.9 points, 3.8 rebounds and 11.5 minutes in 26 games.
So, is he a deeply discounted star or damaged goods? The mere asking of that question has put a cinder block on his shoulder.
"It kind of motivates you," Giles told NBA.com's Scott Howard-Cooper. "You're working out and in the game it kind of gives you a little edge. ... I just want to go out there and show them. Try to be the hunter. The team that wants to take a chance on me they won't regret it."
Giles stands 6'10 ½" with a 7'3 ½" wingspan and sports some of the longest (9 ½") and widest (10 ¾") hands at the combine. He's more fluid and mobile than most players his size, a gritty competitor and active going from end to end. If his powerful explosiveness returns, he could be the rare big man who comfortably gets above the rim and switches out to guard perimeter players.

An extra year of seasoning at Cal seemed to work against Ivan Rabb. He looked like a lottery lock in last year's draft, but in this one, he's not even guaranteed to go in the first round.
Both his scoring and rebounding averages increased, but neither did so dramatically. Consistency was again an issue, and there weren't any major new wrinkles in his game.
That said, his selling points are the same—only now they're available at a cheaper price. He has size, length, bounce and a host of intangibles, plus a promising shooting touch that could be an asset down the line.
"With 6'11" size, terrific hands, impressive footwork and sharp instincts, he's a good bet to stick in an energy role that asks him to finish, rebound and score opportunistically in the post," Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman wrote. "He becomes a lot more valuable if he starts consistently sticking those catch-and-shoot or short-corner jumpers."
Rabb isn't overly strong or explosive, but he is skilled and smart. With better spacing than he had in college, he should become a more efficient finisher at the rim. That will help unlock his pick-and-roll game, which would grow more dangerous if he becomes a threat to pop as well.
He looks more like a reliable role player than a potential stud, but that's all teams hope to find at the back end of the first round.
     
Statistics used courtesy of NBA.com and Sports Reference.
Zach Buckley covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @ZachBuckleyNBA.

The NBA has released the full list of 14 team representatives for this year's draft lottery, which will take place on Tuesday, May 16. 
Here's the full list of representatives, via Alex Kennedy of HoopsHype:
Regardless of who the Boston Celtics chose to send, they are going to be happy on lottery night. They have the best odds for the top pick and are guaranteed to select no lower than fourth after fleecing the Brooklyn Nets in 2013. 
The big story around the players in this year's NBA draft revolves around point guards Markelle Fultz and Lonzo Ball in a battle for the No. 1 overall pick. 
Ball has more national hype by virtue of being the best player for a UCLA team that went 31-5 last season. His profile has also been boosted by his father, LaVar Ball, who has been a media staple throughout the past year for promoting his son and brand. 
Fultz, who was terrific in his own right for a Washington team that went just 9-22, seems to have a slight edge with talent evaluators.
B/R's Jonathan Wasserman had Fultz going No. 1 overall to the Celtics in his mock draft posted on April 24. He also offered this scouting report from his April 4 big board, which also has Fultz listed as the best player available.
"The only player since 1992 to average at least 20 points, five rebounds and five assists and shoot over 40 percent from three, Fultz, who's still 18 years old, couldn't have done much more outside of defend a little tighter," Wasserman wrote. "While the college production is a big selling point, it's his tools, athleticism, next-level skills and well-rounded game that say the numbers will carry over. Fultz fits the mold of a James Harden-like scoring playmaker who can be used as the lead or 2-guard."
Both players displayed tremendous talent in their only seasons as college basketball players. Their futures are bright, and each should end up being a key figure for the next generation of NBA players. 
As for the actual lottery ceremony, it's always one of the most unique spectacles in sports. For instance, Oklahoma City Thunder star and NBA MVP candidate Russell Westbrook was the team's representative in 2015 when they only had a 0.5 percent chance to win the top pick after going 45-37. 
Always one for style in a public setting, Westbrook showed up to the ceremony in a unique T-shirt and glasses combination.
Russy representing the Thunder ://t.co/Ou5EsuhuzT
Whatever Westbrook might have been going for didn't work, as the Thunder wound up settling for the No. 14 pick. 
There are also often feel-good moments at the draft lottery. Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert's son Nick was the team's good-luck charm in 2011 and 2013, helping the Cavs get the No. 1 pick both times. 
The 2011 draft led to Cleveland selecting Kyrie Irving, which worked out well. The 2013 draft led to Anthony Bennett, which no one wants to remember, but the Cavaliers did use him as part of a package to acquire Kevin Love one year later. 

The Golden State Warriors and San Antonio Spurs face off in Game 2 of the Western Conference Finals on Tuesday night, but some NBA fans will undoubtedly be more interested in watching someone lift placards out of envelopes one by one.
The NBA draft lottery reveal will occur on Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN, and given the star power of this year's class, it should be one of the more fascinating lotteries in league history.
Here's a look at a new mock draft (note that the order will not be finalized until after the lottery) along with some analysis on two University of Kentucky players who almost certainly will be picked in the top 10.
     
De'Aaron Fox: Philadelphia 76ers
Markelle Fultz, Josh Jackson and Lonzo Ball have been the consensus top-three picks in all NBA mock drafts for quite some time now, but former Kentucky point guard De'Aaron Fox could be entering his name into the top-three conversation.
Per Chad Ford of ESPN (h/t Bleacher Report's Timothy Rapp), Fox may be moving ahead of Ball in particular: "There also seems to be a growing movement among teams to rank Kentucky's Fox ahead of Ball. No one helped himself more in March than Fox did. He has a chance to go as high as No. 2 or No. 3 in this draft."
Fox and Ball faced off twice last season, with UCLA winning a regular-season tilt at Kentucky and the Wildcats beating the Bruins in the Sweet 16. Over those two games, Fox averaged 29.5 points, 6.5 assists and 1.5 turnovers, while Ball posted 12.0 points, 7.5 assists and 5.0 turnovers.
Fox outplayed Ball, which is something NBA teams could keep in mind if they are picking between the two.
Even if Fox isn't picked in the top three, it's hard to see him slip past the top five given his rising momentum just one month before the draft on June 22.
The Philadelphia 76ers are a potential fit. They said they were committed to playing the first overall draft pick from 2016, Ben Simmons, at point guard next year, but if the 76ers have the No. 4 pick and Fox is sitting there, Philadelphia could absolutely make that selection.
Fox was asked about playing with Simmons and the 76ers. Here's what he had to say per Keith Pompey of Philly.com: "[The 76ers] asked me about it and Ben being able to bring the ball up the court and being the facilitator. I feel like I can really fit in with Ben. He's fast, and I feel like the position he plays, not many people can grab a rebound and push it with the speed and vision that he has."
The guess here is that a Fox-Simmons pairing would work. Fox is just too good to pass up.
     
Malik Monk: Sacramento Kings
While there's some debate on who the best point guards are in this year's NBA draft, there's no argument about the best shooting guard in this class.
Malik Monk averaged 19.8 points per game last season and arguably provided the best individual performance of the entire Division I men's college basketball year when he scored 47 points against eventual national champion North Carolina in a 103-100 win in December.
The 6'3" Monk should slot somewhere in the top 10. The question is where.
The Kings, who have two picks in the top 10, are a good fit. Sacramento finished 20th in the NBA in offensive efficiency, per ESPN.com, and could use a scoring boost everywhere.
The issue is that the Kings backcourt is crowded at the moment. Buddy Hield, Ben McLemore, Malachi Richardson, Garrett Temple and Arron Afflalo are all under contract for next season, per HoopsHype.
However, Monk is just too good to pass up at No. 8. Here are Mike Schmitz and Matt Kamalsky of DraftExpress with some analysis:
"A freakishly explosive leaper capable of finishing emphatically above the rim, registering a 42-inch vertical leap at Kentucky's preseason combine, the Bentonville, Arkansas native also possesses the strong first step and quickness to potentially grow into a dynamic shot creator off the dribble, even if that wasn't his identity at the college level."
Despite the backcourt logjam for next season, the Kings' books are almost clear in 2018-19. Per HoopsHype, Sacramento only has $16.7 million tied up in contracts during that season and nothing in 2019-20.
Therefore, they shouldn't avoid the best player available just because of a current position predicament or because they've drafted three shooting guards (McLemore, Richardson and current 76er Nik Stauskas) in the past four drafts. They just need players who can produce.
At this point, the Kings should take the best prospects available regardless of position.

Once again, LaVar Ball has given a media interview. And once again, the father of former UCLA guard Lonzo Ball is risking alienating NBA teams by publicly pushing for Lonzo to play for the Los Angeles Lakers.
"Oh, he's going to be a Laker," LaVar told ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne in a wide-ranging profile. "I'm going to keep talking about it until it happens."
The Ball family's attempt to nudge Lonzo in the Lakers' direction is nothing new. LaVar has publicly expressed his desire for Lonzo to be a Laker on a number of occasions, to the point he's also had to clarify his son would play for other franchises.
Lonzo, who played high school basketball in Chino Hills, California, and went close to home at UCLA, has also said being a Laker means more than going No. 1 overall in June's draft. He also told Shelburne he stands behind his father despite his increasingly controversial public reputation.
"I believe what he says," Lonzo said. "And I'm 100 percent behind it."
It seems Lonzo has grown satisfied with LaVar being his boisterous public soapbox while he lounges in the background and focuses on basketball. Lonzo told Shelburne he prefers staying at home in Chino Hills to Los Angeles, choosing nights of movies and hanging out in the hotel room when UCLA played on the road over more lavish outings.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
"I do all my playing on the court," Lonzo said. "He can say whatever he wants off of it.
"He's been here my whole life," he added. "I wouldn't be here without him. So if I go back on him, that's like going back on what I've been doing my whole life, and I don't think that's right."
Lonzo, who averaged 14.6 points, 7.6 assists and 6.0 rebounds during his only season at UCLA, is considered a co-favorite with Washington's Markelle Fultz to go No. 1 in June's draft. While both are point guards, the decision between Fultz and Ball may come down to which team wins Tuesday's lottery. A smaller-market team may gravitate toward Fultz's less headline-driven persona, while a major market (specifically Los Angeles) may view Ball as a star in the making.
Lakers president of basketball operations Magic Johnson told ESPN's Jeff Goodman that LaVar's presence would not have an impact on whether the team would select Lonzo. 
Until the next season starts, Lonzo and LaVar Ball will continue being picked apart online with every quote, $495 shoe release or rap bar thrown out on SoundCloud. Then we'll get to see if all the fuss was worth it—whether in Los Angeles or in some other city. 

As the playoffs rage on for five NBA teams, the other 25 are already diving into offseason plans. And the first major event of the offseason is the draft.
Analyzing and predicting who will go where will become a lot easier once the 2017 lottery is in the books.
The teams with the best shot at landing the No. 1 pick are the Boston Celtics (25 percent, thanks to a trade with the Brooklyn Nets), Phoenix Suns (19.9 percent) and Los Angeles Lakers (15.6 percent).
The rest of the odds are as follows:
     
When and Where to Watch
ESPN will cover this year's lottery, with the kickoff show happening at 7:30 p.m. ET on Tuesday. The actual lottery broadcast begins at 8:30 p.m. ET. And if history is any guide, the picks won't actually be revealed until just before the start of Game 2 between the San Antonio Spurs and Golden State Warriors at 9 p.m. ET.
If you're not around a TV, you'll still be able to stream the event on WatchESPN. Bleacher Report will also run a live blog along with the event.
     
Best Fits for the Top 3
As things stand now, the consensus top three in this year's draft class goes, tentatively ordered, Markelle Fultz, Lonzo Ball and Josh Jackson.
Washington's Fultz is a perfect fit for the Celtics, who already have a ball-dominant point guard in Isaiah Thomas. Both Fultz and Ball have the size to defend opposing guards more effectively than IT, but Fultz seems better suited to playing off the ball.
Thomas and Ball both play with their fingerprints all over every aspect of their team's offenses. Together, those styles may clash. Fultz is great on the ball as well but projects to be a better off-ball option. His shooting ability makes him a great catch-and-shoot target for Thomas and Al Horford.
Ball, meanwhile, makes almost too much sense for the Lakers. Never mind the fact that he played his college ball at UCLA and said it would be a "blessing" to play for his hometown team in an interview with ESPN's First Take, he's a great fit in terms of basketball.
Like Fultz, Ball has the size to defend either guard spot. He can share the floor with D'Angelo Russell, who the Lakers tried off the ball toward the end of the season. And there aren't many players who can school a big point guard on how to use his size better than Lakers president Magic Johnson.
Finally, there's Josh Jackson, a combo forward who does a little bit of everything. He's especially intriguing as a defensive ace, something the Suns desperately need.
They already have plenty of offense from the backcourt and wings in Eric Bledsoe, Devin Booker and T.J. Warren. Adding Jackson's versatility to that young core makes it even more exciting. Small-ball lineups with those four and one of Phoenix's young centers would be a nightmare to try to keep up with.

Fact: Stephen Curry had 40 points in the Golden State Warriors' 113-111 win over the San Antonio Spurs on Sunday. It was his second 40-plus-point playoff performance against San Antonio, joining Amar'e Stoudemire, Kobe Bryant and Hakeem Olajuwon as the only players to have multiple such games.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

In a second-round series that has seen the home team go 6-0 so far, the top-seeded Boston Celtics will have that edge against the fourth-seeded Washington Wizards as solid favorites for Game 7 on Monday.
The Wizards staved off elimination with a 92-91 win over the Celtics in Game 6 on a three-pointer by John Wall with 3.5 seconds left but failed to cover as five-point chalk.
    
Point spread: The Celtics opened as four-point favorites; the total is at 210.5, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. (Line updates and matchup report)
NBA betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 112.6-112.4, Wizards (NBA picks on every game)
    
Why the Wizards can cover the spread
Washington hopes to take Boston's Game 6 approach and obviously go one step further by bringing home one more win and advancing to the Eastern Conference Finals. The Celtics led 42-41 at halftime and 69-66 at the end of the third quarter, keeping the game close enough to cover the spread until the final buzzer sounded.
The Wizards have the confidence that they can finish this series with a win by doing the same thing—hanging around and staying close, which should at least lead to a cover.
    
Why the Celtics can cover the spread
Boston still managed to cover the spread despite the team's toughest home test in Game 2, rallying back at the end of regulation and cruising to a 10-point overtime victory. The Celtics have won eight straight over the Wizards at home both straight up and against the spread, dating back to the 2014 regular season.
All of those previous eight home meetings have been decided by eight points or more, and another win by that margin would be enough to cover again.
     
Smart betting pick
The road team has only won 22 of the previous 100 Game 7s SU, so the odds are definitely against Washington pulling off the upset. Boston's home-court advantage in this series has also been outstanding compared to how the team played at TD Garden in the first round versus the Chicago Bulls.
That said, the Celtics certainly look to be the best bet here, to win and cover the spread at online sports betting sites. While Wall was the difference in Game 6, Isaiah Thomas will counter with another huge effort in Game 7 to help Boston move on.
     
NBA betting trends
Washington is 3-7 ATS in its last 10 games.
Washington is 1-5 ATS in its last six games on the road.
Boston is 8-2 ATS in its last 10 games.
     
All NBA lines and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.

The NBA's conference finals instantly challenged everyone's preconceived notions of the Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers waltzing into their third consecutive Finals meeting. 
By the end of the Western Conference Finals' Game 1, those observers probably maintained that belief. Despite giving Golden State an early scare, the San Antonio Spurs faltered in the second half, squandering a 23-point edge without Kawhi Leonard.
As the superstar's status clouds the West outlook, the Cleveland Cavaliers will finally discover their Eastern Conference Finals opponent when the Washington Wizards and Boston Celtics settle the score on Monday night. The winner of their Game 7 will encounter a recharged squad once again playing pristine playoff basketball.
Should fans still expect the tentatively scheduled rubber match between Golden State and Cleveland? Nothing is ever certain in sports, but yes, probably.
   
Spurs Missed Their Best Chance

To the shock of Warriors fans at Oracle Arena, the Spurs jumped out to a 20-point halftime lead in Sunday's Game 1. For 24 minutes, they flummoxed an offensive dynamo behind an MVP performance from Leonard.
The game quickly turned once he exited with an injured ankle. ESPN Stats & Info documented the reversal of fortune.
The Warriors outscored the Spurs by 25 points after Kawhi Leonard left with an injury. s://t.co/NKeZ1AcVys
That's not a death sentence against any other team. Days earlier, they clobbered the Houston Rockets without "The Claw," leading ESPN Stats & Info to conversely point out the Spurs' bizarre splits:
In the 9 games Spurs have played without Kawhi Leonard (incl. playoffs), they've scored more points, given up fewer than when he’s in lineup s://t.co/eiPbak4kQP
Zaza Pachulia stepping on Leonard's foot wasn't the only factor in Golden State's 113-111 comeback win. With or without the star forward active, Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant weren't going to stay cold forever.
Klay Thompson and Draymond Green never heated up, but the former MVPs carried the Warriors down the stretch. FanRag Sports' Nekias Duncan shared their preposterous second-half scoring proficiency:
The combined shot chart of Steph Curry and Kevin Durant in the second half.

There just...isn't much you can do with this. s://t.co/Uwh87Zgu8o
The Spurs probably wouldn't have squandered a 23-point lead in approximately 20 minutes with Leonard. They're also unlikely to thoroughly dominate another half unless Leonard and Tony Parker find Lazarus Pit, while Manu Ginobili continues to look 10 years younger for the full series.
A Spurs upset would have certainly caused onlookers to rethink an inevitable NBA Finals rematch. Now they must wonder if Leonard is healthy enough for them to prevent another Warriors sweep.
Leonard's injury means open season for Durant and Curry. When Thompson regains his shooting stroke, it's curtains for San Antonio.
     
Celtics, Wizards Playing to Lose to Cavaliers 

The Celtics and Wizards have traded victories in a heated series featuring giant performances from All-Star point guards John Wall and Isaiah Thomas. Following a thrilling Game 6, Monday night's winner-take-all Game 7 can captivate viewers like no other contest this postseason.
Fans should savor every second, even if the victor is simply LeBron James' next victim.
Cleveland has flipped the proverbial playoff switch, winning all eight games with 114.5 points per contest. Per NBA.com, the reigning champions have played more efficiently on both ends of the court:
Dating back to last year's Finals comeback, per ESPN Stats & Info, James has reached superlative heights, even for his lofty standards:
Since Game 5 of 2016 NBA Finals
LeBron James in Playoffs
Team W-L 11-0
PPG         34.9
FG pct      54.0
RPG         9.7
APG         7.8 s://t.co/XFgmv4hiiE
He's also shooting 46.8 percent (22-of-47) from three-point range this postseason, making him virtually impossible to guard. Cleveland collectively has converted 14.4 deep makes per game at a 43.4-percent clip this postseason.
The red-hot Cavaliers will also enter the Eastern Conference Finals rested. They haven't played since sweeping the Toronto Raptors on May 7, a week-plus layover that will start sparking concerns of rust. Kyrie Irving told ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin that they're anxious to resume their championship quest.
"We're itching to play, literally every time we go through somewhat of a walkthrough we're ready to compete," Irving said. "You know it's fun, at the same time, but still we want to get out there and play."
Not that they would ever admit to preferring an opponent, but they can keep home-court advantage by facing the Wizards. Although it hasn't mattered during the playoffs, Cleveland went 20-21 away from Quicken Loans Arena during the season. The hosting team, meanwhile, has won every game of the in-progress semifinals series entering Game 7 at TD Garden.
Maybe this means Boston can take Cleveland to five or six instead of getting swept. The nihilistic outlook is probably the accurate one here, as James will cruise to his seventh consecutive NBA Finals appearance. 

The 2017 NBA draft isn't too far away, waiting just on the other side of the Finals. With some quality prospects sitting in the draft pool, at least a few teams at the top are going to get legitimate difference-makers in June.
After Tuesday's draft lottery, we'll know which teams will be picking at the top. 
Of course, in order to actually win at the draft lottery, a team has to pick the right prospect with its top selection. Teams at the top are obviously looking for top-end potential and upside, but they're also looking for players who are safe and don't appear capable of becoming busts.
Here, we're going to examine the safest bets in the 2017 draft. We'll also run down the current draft order—based on records—and mock the first round based on factors like player potential and team needs.
      
2017 NBA Mock Draft
Safest Prospects
Markelle Fultz, G, Washington
Washington product Markelle Fultz is as close to a sure-thing as we've seen in a few years. He combines freaky athleticism with a 6'4", 190-pound frame with room to grow. He's a capable defender who won't sacrifice on that end of the court in order to fill up the offensive stat sheet. 
Fultz is capable of racking up scoring stats, though. Last season, he made over 47 percent of his shots from the field and over 41 percent of shots from three-point range. If you're looking for a prospect with an NBA body, defensive talent and scoring ability—and every team should be—then Fultz is your guy.
"Markelle fits the suit," ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said, per Adam Caparell of Complex.com. "He's got an NBA body. Long arms. Got good size. Markelle is a multidimensional scorer. He can really shoot it. He's got all the tools to be a really good shooter in the league."
If you're looking for a grounded prospect who is going to carry himself like a humble professional, then Fultz is also your guy.
"I like doing everything under the radar," Fultz explained, per Andrew Sharp of SI.com. "I don't like making a scene. As far as being cocky, I never want to put anybody below me. I've been at the bottom. I know what it feels like to work hard, and when somebody else tries to showboat, it just makes me want to work harder."
The only real negative with Fultz is that he didn't play for a winning program. When you're looking at the player and the person, though, Fultz is undoubtedly a safe prospect.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
      
Josh Jackson, F, Kansas
Kansas' Josh Jackson is another prospect who brings talent to both ends of the court. He's a physical and aggressive 6'8", 205-pound prospect with enough athleticism and skill to play multiple positions if needed.
Jackson has the skills to be a quality scorer in the NBA. While he only averaged 16.3 points per game in 2016, Jackson did make over 51 percent of his shots from the field. Unfortunately, he isn't a consistent shooter and made just over 37 percent of his three-point attempts.
Still, Jackson appears to be a safe prospect when you consider just how much he can help a team at both ends.
"Jackson is an intriguing basketball prospect because he's the most versatile defender of any of the forwards available in this draft and is considered among the best two-way all-around players in the pool," Matt Norlander of CBSSports.com wrote.
Jackson is a high-floor prospect with the potential to develop into a legitimate star.
"He's a competitor with a great motor, and the rare type of guy who can create offensive out of defense," David Ray of NBADraft.net explained. "He'll need to work on his shot to take his game to the next level, but Jackson appears to have a high floor, as well as the ceiling of an All-Star level player"
      
Malik Monk, G, Kentucky
At 6'3" and 200 pounds, Kentucky's Malik Monk isn't the biggest prospect in this draft class. He isn't the most athletic prospect either. However, we're considering Monk a safe prospect because he's an excellent scorer and shooter, and there's always room for one of those on an NBA roster.
Last season, Monk averaged 19.8 points per game while shooting 45 percent from the field and just under 40 percent from beyond the arc.
"Definitely buying into a shot-maker like that," one NBA scout said of Monk, per Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman. "If he was 6'5", everyone would say he's the potential top pick."
Monk isn't going to be the draft's top pick, and he might end up going after former teammate De'Aaron Fox because of Fox's potential athletic ceiling. However, a team can add Monk and feel good about adding a consistent and reliable point-maker.
As Fox recently pointed out, Monk is the type of shooter who can take over a game:
De’Aaron Fox on Malik Monk: “Don’t let him get hot. If he gets hot, it’s over.”
Monk is the best shooting guard in this year's draft class and the safest prospect for teams looking to address the position.

NBA prospects benefit from landing in settings that suit their particular strengths and weaknesses. It's also a plus to join a team that has available minutes and a clear path toward the starting lineup.
The right fit can expedite a young player's development. A poor fit could prevent him from improving or maximizing his potential. 
For a rookie, particularly those who lack polish, going to a franchise with established talent makes the game easier.
We matched up projected lottery picks with the best and worst teams for them to start their careers.

Best landing spot: Boston Celtics 
After losing 22 games at Washington, Markelle Fultz needs a team looking to move past the tanking stage. The Los Angeles Lakers and Philadelphia 76ers would qualify, but the Boston Celtics are ideal. 
The winning culture would benefit Fultz, whose inability to reach March's NCAA tournament raised the only worrisome predraft question. 
Isaiah Thomas would take loads of pressure off Fultz, who'd still see plenty of scoring and playmaking chances at the 2, where his size, length and shooting will allow him to play. Jae Crowder and Jaylen Brown are better suited as secondary options, and Avery Bradley could become an intriguing trade chip entering the final year of his deal.
In a few years, he and Thomas could challenge Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson for the NBA's most potent backcourt. 
     
Worst landing spot: Phoenix Suns
Already set with two high-usage guards, the Phoenix Suns don't have room for another. They'd likely have to deal Eric Bledsoe, a move that could set the current team back.
With Devin Booker, Dragan Bender and Marquese Chriss—the team's next-most valuable assets—all 20 years old or younger, the Suns are far away. Fultz or any rookie guard would be better off landing on a team with established talent and veterans.

Best landing spot: Phoenix Suns
There aren't clear openings for Josh Jackson with the Los Angeles Lakers and Boston Celtics, and his strengths and weaknesses mirror Ben Simmons' in Philadelphia, where the 76ers need scorers and shooters.
The Phoenix Suns should value Jackson's defense, transition game, attacking and passing. He'd seamlessly slide in between Booker and Chriss, where the Suns have a hole on the wing.
Jackson could start right away in a fast-paced lineup suited for his explosive athleticism. 
      
Worst landing spot: Los Angeles Lakers
If the Lakers pick third and Fultz and Lonzo Ball go top two, Jackson may want to go fourth. 
Can he thrive in a lineup with Brandon Ingram and Julius Randle? Someone would have to play out of position. 
Jackson would likely be the odd man out. He'd be forced to play shooting guard as a fourth option, which could prevent him from maximizing his potential. The Lakers' likely pursuit of Paul George, either via trade or free agency after next season, could also work against Jackson.

Best landing spot: Boston Celtics
There is a clearer opening for Ball at the point in Los Angeles, assuming the Lakers would move D'Angelo Russell to shooting guard. But Ball, who doesn't project as a volume scorer, would be better off next to Thomas, Crowder and Al Horford in Boston. 
The Celtics would allow Ball to focus on passing, his core strength. And though Thomas would take the rock out of Ball's hands, the former Bruin proved he didn't need to dominate it, having made a significant impact at UCLA with just an 18.1 percent usage rate.
The Lakers were also the NBA's worst-ranked defense, and Ball struggles at times stopping dribble penetration. The Celtics, who are already atop the standings, have more defenders and veterans to support him.
       
Worst landing spot: Orlando Magic
Nikola Vucevic and Evan Fournier are weak go-to options. The Magic don't have enough weapons for Ball to work with. 
Orlando ranked No. 29 in both offensive efficiency and three-point percentage. Having averaged just 16.6 points per 40 minutes, Ball is the type of lead ball-handler who'll want scorers and shooters around him.

Best landing spot: Philadelphia 76ers
Looking for a second option to play off Joel Embiid, the Philadelphia 76ers could be targeting Jayson Tatum. He'd fit in perfectly at the wing, where his scoring and shot-making would complement Simmons' playmaking.
Tatum would fit with the Phoenix Suns as well, but if it were up to him, Philadelphia should look more attractive in a weaker Eastern Conference. The Sixers, who finished in the top 15 in defensive efficiency, appear closer to playoff contention. 
Worst landing spot: Minnesota Timberwolves 
The Wolves have multiple one-on-one players and not enough specialists. There would be too many ball-stoppers in a full-strength lineup with Andrew Wiggins, Karl-Anthony Towns, Zach LaVine and Tatum. 
Playing in Minnesota would call for Tatum to do too much spotting up, which takes away from his strengths as an isolation scorer.

Best landing spot: Minnesota Timberwolves
Landing in a frontcourt with a pair of 20-point scorers would benefit Jonathan Isaac. Raw and limited as a shot-creator, he could play off Towns and Wiggins and take what the defense gives him.
Isaac would fit nicely between Towns and Wiggins at the 4, where he can exploit his threatening quickness, ball-handling and jumper. Meanwhile, coach Tom Thibodeau would value's Isaac's pick-and-roll coverage and versatility that highlights weak-side shot-blocking and the ability to switch on to wings or guards.
      
Worst landing spot: Sacramento Kings
With little talent and few veterans to lean on in Sacramento, Isaac would struggle to get consistent good looks. He'd be forced into too many situations that would call for him to create something out of nothing. And Isaac hasn't demonstrated high-level isolation scoring or playmaking ability. 
The Kings aren't likely lo acquire a high-profile free-agent point guard to run the show. Sacramento would delay Isaac's development and lead to early inefficiency.

Best landing spot: Los Angeles Lakers 
De'Aaron Fox would get to use his speed in L.A., where the Lakers ranked sixth last year in pace. That number would likely go up if they took the freshman out of Kentucky.
Fox would push Russell to off-guard and give the No. 30-ranked defense extra quickness and ball pressure. Between Russell and Ingram, whose shooting numbers should only go up from here, Fox, a subpar shooter, could also surround himself with three-point threats at the wing positions.
     
Worst landing spot: Orlando Magic
Fox may want to avoid Orlando, the second-worst three-point shooting team in the league.
As a ball-dominant lead guard, he wouldn't fit in a lineup with Elfrid Payton, either. Going to Orlando would likely mean pushing Payton out of town, which is somewhat counterproductive, considering he was arguably the team's best player after the All-Star break.
Without shooters, talent or direction, Orlando won't be a favorable place for young point guards to develop.

Best landing spot: Philadelphia 76ers
Though Simmons is expected to handle the ball for Philadelphia, fewer touches may actually benefit Dennis Smith Jr. Simmons could help take pressure off Smith early, which would be a good thing, given the trouble he ran into with shot selection and decision-making at North Carolina State.
He'd receive plenty of scoring and playmaking opportunities without an overwhelming workload. Plus, even if coach Brett Brown makes Simmons the point forward, the team still needs additional backcourt firepower.
The Dallas Mavericks wouldn't be a bad fit for Smith, but between Simmons and Embiid, there is higher upside tied to Philadelphia's core. It wouldn't hurt starting his career in a weaker Eastern Conference, either.
        
Worst landing spot: New York Knicks
Phil Jackson's triangle would take away from Smith's bread and butter: playmaking and ball-screen opportunities. 
The system isn't suited for his dribble creativity. But most importantly, New York's roster doesn't offer great support for a rookie lead guard, particularly one with questionable shot selection and leadership qualities. 

Best landing spot: Philadelphia 76ers
Malik Monk can play to his strengths in Philadelphia, where the Sixers need an off-ball scorer and shot-maker.
Considering Nik Stauskas and TJ. McConnell generate a combined 16.4 points per game, Monk would be looking at immediate minutes and a bright enough green light, which is key for a microwave player who thrives off rhythm and confidence. 
He'd also benefit from Simmons' passing and all the attention Embiid draws in the post. Monk could ultimately play the same role in Philadelphia as the one he played at Kentucky, which called for him to shoot off screens, spot-ups and leak-outs on the secondary break.
      
Worst landing spot: Sacramento Kings
Monk would have a target on his back in Sacramento. Defenses wouldn't have to spend too much energy trying to lock down any other King. 
The more playmakers and go-to scorers around Monk, the better. Otherwise, he'll likely be sucked into taking too many low-percentage jumpers. 

Best landing spot: Dallas Mavericks
Dirk Nowitzki's mentorship should be a selling point for Lauri Markkanen, who brings similar size, perimeter scoring skills and athletic limitations.
In Dallas, he could also start slowly behind Nowitzki and presumably Nerlens Noel, assuming he's brought back. But with Nowitzki's career winding down, there is still a path for Markkanen toward the Mavericks' starting lineup.
With Noel, he'd also have a rim protector to back him up—a key detail, given Markkanen's weak interior defensive presence.
    
Worst landing spot: Sacramento Kings
Without any stars or reliable veterans, Sacramento isn't ideal for any rookie.
Markkanen projects more as a complementary scorer and shot-maker. He wouldn't get as many clean looks with the Kings, especially given their guard situation and struggles luring in high-profile free agents. 
His development could stall in Sacramento. The next step and playoffs are too far away for the Kings.

Best landing spot: Minnesota Timberwolves
Ricky Rubio and Kris Dunn are locked in at point guard, but Frank Ntilikina could be better suited for shooting guard, a position he's played a lot of with Strasbourg in France. 
The Wolves, a promising team poised to eventually rise, could use defense at the 2. And between his length and quickness, Ntilikina may be the draft's strongest perimeter defender. 
When he returns, LaVine could be better suited for a sixth-man role. Ntilikina would give the Wolves backcourt ball pressure and passing, as well as shooting (40 percent from three) to a team that ranked last in three-pointers made per game.
        
Worst landing spot: Sacramento Kings
At 18 years old, Ntilikina doesn't appear ready for lead ball-handling duties. And he'd likely be given them in Sacramento, where the Kings need a point guard. 
He struggles to create shots as it is. Ntilikina would be set up to fail running a team that has no veterans or talent.

Best landing spot: Charlotte Hornets
The Detroit Pistons and Denver Nuggets have starting centers locked in, and the Dallas Mavericks are expected to bring Noel back. Zach Collins' best chance to earn a meaningful role for a team near playoff contention would be in Charlotte, where Cody Zeller has been injury-prone and doesn't offer much offense.
Though Zeller is much improved, Collins' ceiling is higher, given his age, tools, mobility and inside-out skill set. His game could actually complement Zeller's. Collins isn't as strong defensively, but he did block 4.1 shots per 40 minutes (Zeller has averaged fewer than one per game every season), and he's flashed more promising shooting potential.
       
Worst landing spot: Sacramento Kings
With two lottery picks, Collins better hope the Kings look elsewhere. Collins, who's raw and unpolished, would have trouble taking off with a young lineup lacking talent. 
He'd be better off beginning his career as a backup and practicing against a veteran starter. 
Sacramento also has Willie Cauley-Stein and Georgios Papagiannis, anyway, two centers the team recently used lottery picks on.

Small forwards get asked to do a lot in today's NBA, so the most desirable free-agent options are the ones who can make impacts in several ways.  
Ideally, a modern 3 can defend most wings and some power forwards while stretching the floor with a reliable three-point shot and taking on playmaking duties in a pinch.
Easy enough, right?  
As you can imagine, there aren't many players at any position who can pull off all those jobs. So in addition to broader areas such as health, age and capacity for improvement, we'll rank these small forwards on their ability to do most of them. And failing that, those who are exceptional at one of the requirements grade out highly as well. 
To keep this clean, only players who spent at least 40 percent of their minutes at the 3 or a greater percentage there than any other position, according to Basketball Reference, will be included. So even if we typically think of Danilo Gallinari as a small forward, he'll have to wait until we rank power forwards to be considered because he played over 60 percent of his minutes at the 4 last year.
Everybody wants a do-it-all wing. These are the best available. 

Tyreke Evans, Sacramento Kings
Not so long ago, it would have been Tyreke Evans' game that gave suitors pause. He's a low-percentage finisher at the rim who completed just one of his eight seasons with an effective field-goal percentage above 50, and his high counting numbers, though impressive to some, never amounted to wins. Classic fool's gold.
Now, health is the real concern, as repeated knee injuries have limited him to just 65 total games over the past two seasons.
Why is he even here then?
Because Evans is only 27 and hit just under 36.9 percent of his threes in those two truncated seasons.
Bojan Bogdanovic, Washington Wizards
On offense, Bogdanovic is a rotation-quality weapon who can stretch the floor and keeps getting better at drawing contact. After coming over to the Wizards at the February trade deadline, he bumped up his free-throw rate to a career-high level.
On D, it's best to just look the other way.
           
Rudy Gay, Sacramento Kings
You can do your own figuring on which was the greater factor in the decision, but Rudy Gay's plan to opt out of a guaranteed $14.2 million, at age 30, four months after tearing his Achilles, means two things. First, he's that anxious to escape Sacramento's perpetual dysfunction. And second, he's confident in his recovery plan.
Achilles injuries are brutal. Nobody's ever quite the same afterward. But Gay may have seen Wesley Matthews get a max offer under the old collective bargaining agreement after tearing his and figured he could expect the market to treat him similarly.
Even fully healthy, there'd be no max in store for Gay. But he's headed for greener pastures by default.

Age: 33
Free-Agency Status: Unrestricted
2016-17 Salary: $3,850,000
Long regarded as one of the league's best wing stoppers, Thabo Sefolosha fell out of the rotation in the Atlanta Hawks' short playoff run.
Though he said he was fully healthy, per the Atlanta Journal-Constitution's Chris Vivlamore, it was easy to connect the dots between his diminished role and the groin strain that cost him eight of the Hawks' final 10 regular-season games. Before that groin strain set him back, Sefolosha was his typical self.
Ranking second among free-agent small forwards in ESPN's defensive real plus-minus on the year, the 33-year-old hit 34.2 percent of his threes and cut his turnover rate to the second-lowest figure of his career.
He's not a perfect three-and-D wing, but Sefolosha is a low-usage standstill shooter who can convert an open look and guard the opponent's most dangerous perimeter scorer. Not bad for the 10th-best free agent at the position.

Age: 32
Free-Agency Status: Unrestricted
2016-17 Salary: $5,300,000
PJ Tucker's defensive approach is different from Sefolosha's—the former bulldozes and intimidates, while the latter opts for willowy length and anticipation—but the results are similar. Tucker did as well as anyone could have on LeBron James in the Toronto Raptors' unceremonious second-round exit, earning his opponent's respect.
"Any time you go against someone who wants to compete, you respect that. And PJ's been like that since we were kids," James told reporters. "He's always been a guy that, at the end of the day, he's never going to say, 'Did I leave it all out there?'"
Tucker's bulk (6'6", 245 lbs) allows him to play the 4, which gives him an advantage over Sefolosha among defense-first small forwards. Not only that, but he's also a superior rebounder, and his physical intensity tends to infect those close by, upping the overall griminess of his team.
The Raptors have free agents Kyle Lowry, Serge Ibaka and Patrick Patterson to worry about in addition to Tucker. But if their plan is to keep this thing together, they should consider prioritizing Tucker's toughness when they start cutting checks.

Age: 30
Free-Agency Status: Player Option
2016-17 Salary: $2,203,000
              
It's hard to know if the sudden spike in Luc Mbah a Moute's three-point shooting is real because his journey to becoming a 39.1 percent threat from that distance has been so strange.
Prior to the 2014-15 season, when the Philadelphia 76ers turned him into a high-volume chucker, Mbah a Moute had never taken more than 37 treys in a year. He flung up 202 that season, hitting just over 30 percent of them. He then holstered the long ball in 2015-16, trying only 40 threes and hitting at 32.5 percent clip.
Last year, he found the right mix of quality and quantity, posting that career-best 39.1 percent hit rate on 110 attempts.
Why does this matter?
It matters because if Mbah a Moute is almost a 40 percent shooter from deep on a decent volume, he's immensely valuable. Throughout his strange shooting evolution, he's always been a rangy, bothersome defender who, at 6'8", can even handle some big men down low.
Do you trust Mbah a Moute's development?
Asking for the 30 teams who could use a (maybe) deadeye shooter who can defend.

Age: 25
Free-Agency Status: Restricted
2016-17 Salary: $2,183,072
Even if Russell Westbrook's one-man, triple-double fueled offensive exploits were the most conspicuous part of the Oklahoma City Thunder's season, defense defined the team.
OKC ranked 17th in offensive rating (105.0 points scored per 100 possessions) and 10th on D (105.1 points allowed per 100 possessions) this year.
Andre Roberson was vital to that latter figure, as his presence on the floor improved Oklahoma City's defense by 4.6 points per 100 possessions. When he sat, the Thunder posted a defensive rating of 107.9, which would have knocked them down into the bottom third of the league.
Though Roberson's shortcomings are well-documented—his inability to shoot from distance or the free-throw line routinely get him yanked off the floor in playoff games—his ability to shut down opposing wings, guard power forwards in a pinch and wreak havoc as an off-ball helper make him a positive contributor.
And even if the chances seem minuscule given a four-year track record marred by 26 percent shooting on threes and 49.3 percent from the line, there's always the possibility of improvement. We just finished discussing Mbah a Moute suddenly becoming a near-40 percent shooter from deep, after all.

Age: 30
Free-Agency Status: Player option
2016-17 Salary: $4,583,450
Though he's five years older than Roberson and probably won't command the dollars or years of his defense-first foil, CJ Miles' plug-and-play appeal as a knockdown shooter with good size makes him the more broadly useful option at small forward.
Of the 24 players to attempt at least 300 catch-and-shoot triples last season, only five converted at a more accurate rate then Miles, who shot 42.6 percent: Stephen Curry, J.J. Redick, Otto Porter Jr., Klay Thompson and Ryan Anderson.
Miles is a true sniper who could be put to even better use in a higher-volume role. The Indiana Pacers only gave him 23.4 minutes per game last year, which is difficult to understand considering their net rating was positive when he played but negative when he sat.
Miles, 6'6", has the size to defend either wing and even spent spot minutes at power forward in small lineups. Stick him in an offense that moves the ball and features a rim-rolling threat, and he'll bury threes all day long (shot 41.3 percent last campaign).
Plus, you've got to love the confidence and perspective he showed in responding to Paul George's criticisms after Game 1 of Indy's first-round loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers.

Age: 29
Free-Agency Status: Restricted
2016-17 Salary: $2,150,000
Gordon Hayward and George Hill will be bigger free-agent priorities for the Utah Jazz, but Joe Ingles is going to draw significant interest on the market. And if Utah wants to keep the momentum going on its four-year upward trajectory, it had better not forget about him.
Ingles outperformed Rodney Hood and Alec Burks all season, and he was better (and healthier) in the playoffs as well.
A flat-out elite three-point shooter (44.1 percent in 2016-17; 39.9 percent for his career), Ingles is more than a specialist. Put the ball in his hands, and he can make plays off the dribble and in the pick-and-roll. Look past his plodding pace and lack of bounce, and you'll see a defender who, somehow, can stay in front of point guards and wings.
If you only give Ingles a cursory look, he might fail your eye test.
But longer study reveals innate court sense, great hands, a reliable stroke and no shortage of competitive fire. He's a no-questions-asked rotation staple for any team in the league.

Age: 23
Free-Agency Status: Restricted
2016-17 Salary: $5,893,981
It's been a gradual process for Otto Porter Jr., but by developing incrementally in each of his four NBA seasons, he's at a point where a max contract feels more likely than not.
Porter's averages in points, rebounds, steals, field-goal percentage and three-point percentage have climbed every year since he came into the league as the No. 3 overall pick in the 2013 draft. Because of the expectations heaped on lottery selections, his slow progress earned him more than a few "bust" labels early on.
Now, though, he's a trey-drilling versatile defender who spaces the floor perfectly alongside John Wall and Bradley Beal.
When opponents put smaller defenders on him, the 6'8"Porter sneaks inside for offensive rebounds. Bigger opponents can't hang with him in transition.
Spectacular plays are few and far between for the moderately athletic and wiry small forward, but there's something to be said for constant improvement and enough skill balance to impact the game in several facets.
If this is where the growth stops—13.4 points, 6.4 rebounds, 1.5 assists, 1.5 steals and 43.4 percent shooting from beyond the arc—that's fine. Actually, that's great. But if Porter keeps getting better, watch out.

Age: 33
Free-Agency Status: Unrestricted
2016-17 Salary: $11,131,368
There may come a point when Andre Iguodala's intellect isn't enough to compensate for declining athleticism. But watching him fly around the floor, deny catches on the perimeter, strip anyone foolish enough to show him the ball and dunk with regularity, it's difficult to imagine crossing that threshold anytime soon.
Iguodala averaged one dunk per game this year, the first time his slam rate has been that high since he was a 29-year-old rim-rocker with the Denver Nuggets four years ago. The Golden State Warriors training staff and an emphasis on minutes management have Iguodala fending off gravity better than most players his age.
In terms of per-minute production, it's hard to find more impactful small forwards.
Iguodala runs Golden State's offense as a de facto point guard most of the time he's on the floor, and he usually does it while defending the opponent's best wing scorer. His turnover rate of 11.2 percent was a career best in 2016-17, and his three-point shooting mark (36.2 percent) was the second-highest figure of his career.
He ranked seventh in RPM among small forwards overall and second among free agents at the position.
This is not an athlete in decline. This is a stud accepting a diminished role and leveraging his innate smarts to make a massive impact.

Age: 27
Free-Agency Status: Player option
2016-17 Salary: $16,073,140
In his age-26 season, Gordon Hayward did it.
He became a full-fledged star—one with the production, team success and highlights necessary to draw notice outside the insular world of Utah Jazz fandom.
With per-game averages of 21.9 points, 5.4 rebounds, 3.5 assists and a 39.8 percent accuracy rate from three-point range, Hayward earned his first All-Star bid. And it's worth noting too that his continually improving athleticism and strength made him the Jazz's most reliable perimeter defender.
He's made himself into a physical force.
It remains to be seen if Hayward can be the best player on a team with a championship ceiling. The answer is probably "no," but let's give him more than one postseason run before judging that question definitively.
Hayward is the first absolute lock on this list for a max contract (Otto Porter might fall a few pennies short), and he'll have interest from anyone with cap space, a group likely led by the Boston Celtics and Miami Heat.
Hayward hasn't decided if he'll opt out this summer (HE WILL), and a return isn't a foregone conclusion.
Isn't this what you usually hear from guys planning to leave but hoping to avoid ill will?
"It's been so much fun for me here in Utah. Kind of growing up here, starting a family," he told reporters recently. "I have nothing but love for everybody here in Utah."
Stay tuned on this one.

Age: 28
Free-Agency Status: Player option
2016-17 Salary: $26,540,100
OK, let's see.
Anybody else on this list been an MVP?
Won four scoring titles?
Been in the 50-40-90 club as a 24-year-old?
Does anyone in the nine spots above this one handle the ball and create ultra high-efficiency offense at 6'9" while shoving his way toward All-Defensive Team consideration?
All right then. I guess that means Kevin Durant deserves to rank No. 1 among free-agent small forwards.
In the absence of any ranking drama, it's worth noting that Durant's decision after opting out this summer could impact the Warriors' chances of continuing their dominant run. If he takes slightly less than the full max available to him, Durant can leave the Dubs with the sliver of cap space they need to use Bird rights on Iguodala and Shaun Livingston, effectively keeping the core rotation intact going forward.
If he insists on the biggest contract possible, Golden State can't use anything other than minimums or roster exceptions to retain some of its vital supporting cast.
Expect one of the greatest scorers of his era to embrace that assist.
Follow Grant on Twitter and Facebook.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Salary info courtesy of Basketball Insiders. Accurate through May 12.

The fact the second-round playoff series between the Boston Celtics and Washington Wizards will go the full seven games is welcome news for NBA fans looking for thrilling action but bad news for those anticipating the return to the floor for the defending champion Cleveland Cavaliers.
Count the Cavaliers themselves among that group.
"We're itching to play," Kyrie Irving said Saturday, per the Associated Press (h/t USA Today).
Cleveland will play the winner of Monday's game in the Eastern Conference Finals. Game 1 will be Wednesday and mark a nine-day break between contests for Cleveland, which the AP noted is its longest postseason break since 2006.
"You got to keep them engaged and show them new things," head coach Tyronn Lue said of practices, per the AP. "I've got to trick them at times, but they've been pretty locked in and we've just got to continue to do what we do."
According to the AP, Lue has avoided five-on-five scrimmages. Irving said, "some guys get a little bit antsy," but the AP noted backup big man Walter Tavares broke his hand during a pickup game between reserves, leading to more understanding of Lue's plan.
It is hard to argue with the results.
Cleveland earned seven days off in between Game 4 of its first-round sweep of the Indiana Pacers and Game 1 of its second-round series against the Toronto Raptors and proceeded to beat the Raptors by 15.25 points a night in a second straight sweep.
LeBron James is rested and in rare form even as one of the best players in NBA history with 34.4 points, 9.0 rebounds and 7.1 assists a night in the playoffs. Irving is averaging 23.8 points a night in support.
Things will likely become more challenging for the Cavaliers at some point in the postseason (especially if they play the Golden State Warriors in the NBA Finals for the third straight year), but for now, their biggest opponent is avoiding rust during an extensive break.

OAKLAND, Calif. — As Stephen Curry nailed a 14-foot floater immediately after halftime of Game 1 to cut the Golden State Warriors' deficit to merely 18, the videoboard suspended over Oracle Arena instinctually gave those two points to the San Antonio Spurs, who were rolling toward a resounding win to kick off the Western Conference Finals on Sunday.
It only took two, maybe three seconds for the error to be rectified, and nothing else seemed to go the Spurs' way after that—not with Kevin Durant exploiting mismatches everywhere to finish with 34 points on 21 shots, not with Kawhi Leonard going down later in that pivotal third quarter with a left ankle injury.
And not with Stephen Curry giving the kind of MVP performance that eluded him in the later rounds of last year's playoff run.
After Leonard's exit, Curry spurred the Warriors to an 18-0 run that gave any comeback hopes some needed oxygen. His three with 1:47 left tied the game at 106 apiece, and his floater with nine seconds to go capped off a 113-111 victory that now stands as the greatest halftime comeback win in Warriors playoff history.
"When it's crunch time, it was nice to get that feeling where we kind of overcame some rough patches and found a way to get it done," Curry said afterward.
That final score—a gliding, confident maneuver in space—encapsulated a vintage night for Curry, who finished with 40 points on 26 shots in fewer than 40 minutes of floor time. He was efficient and disciplined—four turnovers yet no fouls—methodically navigating Golden State's comeback after San Antonio's lead bulged to 25 points midway through the second quarter.
Until Leonard's injury, the Warriors appeared almost certain to drop their first game of this postseason. After sweeping Portland and Utah in the first two rounds, Golden State looked sleepy and disinterested for the majority of the first half.
The Warriors showed some life after the intermission, which included not only encouraging words from acting head coach Mike Brown but the man he has temporarily replaced, Steve Kerr. Curry was able to cut the deficit to 15 twice on two separate threes, but the Spurs would not relent and led by 23 when Leonard went down.
But even with Leonard's awkward landing on Zaza Pachulia's foot exiling him to the locker room for the remainder of the day, the Warriors still had to put in work to surmount a hole they'd dug themselves with stagnant, indecisive ball movement and scattered defense.
From that point on, the game swung inexorably in Golden State's favor, with Curry catalyzing the comeback effort by directing the offense with aplomb. They were only down nine headed into fourth, and as Durant worked to break the Spurs' grip early in the final quarter, Curry made sure his teammates' energies would not be wasted.
After the loss, San Antonio head coach Gregg Popovich conceded his team was sunk when Curry, following two straight offensive rebounds, swished in a three with 1:47 to go. The Spurs had done yeoman's work in preventing the Warriors from getting multiple scoring chances, but this breakdown in corralling rebounds came at the most inopportune moment.
"It was huge, but it was kind of indicative of what kind of mistakes we might have made," Popovich said. "Great effort, tough loss, great opportunity, and we let it slip away."
"We can move the ball, get everybody involved," Durant said. "When our stars are out, we've got guys that can score off the dribble and create off the dribble. I just try to finish, get shots and make them. It's simple."
Maybe it looked simple at times for Curry in this one, but nothing was easy a year ago when he entered the conference finals against Durant's Oklahoma City Thunder in a diminished state. Multiple lower-body injuries had made his superlative play in the regular season little more than a passing memory.
This time, it's been far different. Curry is now averaging 28.6 points in these playoffs, better than all other active players not named LeBron James. He's shooting 41.5 percent on threes. His minutes are still below 35 per night. He's committing fewer turnovers and fouls and posting his best effective field-goal percentage than in any other playoffs, per Basketball Reference.
Sure, Curry had his moments last spring, such as his all-time record 17 overtime points in Game 4 of the second round against the Blazers.
Against Portland, Utah and San Antonio this year, Curry has thus far stayed upright and mobile, agile and lethal, and it shows. Even with Klay Thompson figuratively missing in action (six points on 11 shots), even with a 12:30 pm start time translating to disjointed, ugly hoops, and even with Andre Iguodala missing the entire second half with a sore left knee, Curry can be counted on to lift his team as much as it needs.
In Game 1, the Warriors needed everything he had. Now, with injuries making Leonard's potential impact on this series more uncertain—a common refrain for Curry a year ago—the Warriors are staring at a third straight trip to the Finals. As long as Curry stays healthy and rested, it's almost assured.
For Golden State, so far, so good.
   
Erik Malinowski covers the Warriors for B/R. His book, Betaball: How Silicon Valley and Science Built One of the Greatest Basketball Teams in History, will be published in October. Follow him on Twitter: @erikmal.

An injury to Kawhi Leonard hurt the San Antonio Spurs in Game 1 against the Golden State Warriors Sunday, and Manu Ginobili wasn't afraid to admit the significance.
Leonard could not return after tweaking his ankle injury in the third quarter against the Golden State Warriors. When asked about the impact of the player's absence, Ginobili called it "huge."
"We need Kawhi to create, to score," the veteran explained, per NBA TV. "He means a lot to this team and we were doing really well when he went down. ... We struggled a lot without him and it's a tough break. He's coming from an injury in that ankle and he tweaked it twice in the last minute he played, so we couldn't react to his absence."
The Warriors came away with a 113-111 win to go up 1-0 in the Western Conference Finals.
The Spurs were up 78-55 when Leonard left the game a few minutes into the second half but were outscored 58-33 the rest of the way.
Ginobili scored 17 points, but it wasn't enough to avoid the late collapse.
San Antonio was able to close out the second round with a 39-point road win over the Houston Rockets without Leonard. However, the Warriors clearly represent a much tougher opponent with nine straight wins to start the postseason.
Considering the All-Star's impact on both ends of the court, an extended absence could be devastating.

The Golden State Warriors escaped Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals with a 113-111 victory over the San Antonio Spurs on Sunday, but Draymond Green thought the effort was "perfect." 
"It was actually a perfect Game 1," he said, per Ben Golliver of Sports Illustrated. "You get punched in the mouth but yet you can still get the win. It's a lot tougher in Game 2 when you win easily [by] 20, 30 points and then you usually have a letdown. Now we can come out in Game 2 on edge knowing how good this team is."
Green also reflected on how his team had an easier time with a sweep of the Utah Jazz in the second round than San Antonio did in a six-game series against the Houston Rockets, suggesting San Antonio was more in "fight" mode.
"Now we can have our guard up and try to start off a little better," he added. 
While Green's framed the contest positively for Golden State, it is an injustice to discuss Game 1 without mentioning Kawhi Leonard's injury.
San Antonio dominated the first half and extended its lead to more than 20 points in the third quarter before Leonard left with a sprained ankle. Considering he had 26 points in just 24 minutes and was slicing through the Warriors' defense, it was a devastating setback for the Spurs.
CBS Sports captured the turnaround:
Just so we're clear... Kawhi's injury was a VERY big deal. s://t.co/cHSwWF7EMn
Stephen Curry (40 points) and Kevin Durant (34 points) deserve credit for Golden State's "perfect" win, but Green and the two-time reigning Western Conference champions may have been singing a different tune if Leonard didn't go down.
The Warriors now must come out with their guard up for Tuesday's Game 2 after seeing how much of a scare the Spurs put into them.

San Antonio Spurs star Kawhi Leonard aggravated his sprained left ankle when he landed on Zaza Pachulia's foot during his team's 113-111 loss to the Golden State Warriors in Sunday's Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals.
After the game, Leonard took the high road and said he didn't think the play was dirty, per Mike Finger of the San Antonio Express-News.
The play that completely changed the game.... s://t.co/RUuuomP58q
The team announced the injury in the third quarter, and CBS Sports put the cost of the setback into perspective:
Just so we're clear... Kawhi's injury was a VERY big deal. s://t.co/cHSwWF7EMn
Jabari Young of the San Antonio Express-News shared more from Leonard:
Asked about Zaza's contest, Kawhi didn't think it was dirty #Spurs #Warriors s://t.co/v1WM70zNUG
Pachulia was asked whether he undercut Leonard and responded, per Ben Golliver: "That's really stupid. ... I hate anybody going down like that. ... I'm an athlete too."
Leonard, who finished with 26 points and eight rebounds in just 24 minutes, was enforcing his will as San Antonio extended its commanding early lead before the injury.
The Spurs won Game 6 of their second-round series against the Houston Rockets without Leonard, but the two-time defending Western Conference champion Warriors were a different story.
Stephen Curry poured in 40 points, while Kevin Durant added 34 and said, "You can't listen to people on Twitter. They're irrational" when asked about those suggesting Pachulia slid his foot under Leonard intentionally, per Michael Lee of The Vertical.
NBA TV shared more of Durant's comments:
“Zaza’s not a dirty player… He just tried to contest the shot… It wasn’t intentional at all.” -Kevin Durant #NBAPlayoffs s://t.co/8JUqkHk9xI
The pressing question now for the Spurs is whether their star can return and be 100 percent in the near future. He will have a quick turnaround with Game 2 coming Tuesday.

Boston Celtics star Isaiah Thomas is choosing not to dwell on a mistake by officials in the team's Game 6 defeat to the Washington Wizards that would've added a second to the clock near the end of the game.
In the Last Two Minute Report from the game (h/t ESPN.com's Chris Forsberg), the NBA said Boston should've had about 2.7 seconds on its final possession. Instead, the Celtics had 1.7 seconds to get off one last shot.
Thomas said he could've potentially gotten a better opportunity to win the game but said the mistake won't be front and center on his mind when the Celtics look to close out the series in Game 7, per Forsberg: "I could take another dribble. I could have got past [Markieff] Morris, probably. A little bit, got a little bit more separation. It is what it is. We can't worry about that. It just sucks that they came out with it and said we should have had another second."
Thomas' deep three-point attempt hit off the back iron as time expired in regulation:
There's no question a full second would've afforded the Celtics a far better chance at taking the lead. With 1.7 seconds, Thomas essentially had time to take the inbounds pass, set himself and take the shot. If the officials had gotten the timing right, Thomas could've taken an extra dribble, or Boston could've run a play closer to the basket.
But, as Thomas said, there's little sense in continuing to focus on the clock error before Game 7 Monday night. No matter the result, it'll have little importance in the grand scheme of things.
If Boston wins, then the final seconds of Game 6 will only be a footnote to this year's postseason. Should the Celtics lose, then the officiating mistake won't single-handedly explain how the Eastern Conference's top seed lost four of its final five playoff games—including a decisive Game 7 in its home arena.

Golden State Warriors swingman Andre Iguodala played just 10 minutes during his team's 113-111 victory over the San Antonio Spurs in Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals Sunday, and Ben Golliver of Sports Illustrated noted the team called it "left knee soreness."
Iguodala confirmed he will receive an MRI on Monday, according to Marcus Thompson II of the Mercury News, who added he could "very well" be out for Game 2 on Tuesday. Head coach Mike Brown, who is filling in for Steve Kerr, said Iguodala "looked just a little hobbled" in the first half, which resulted in his sitting. 
Iguodala missed 17 games during the 2015-16 season, but he's been far healthier this year with the Warriors eyeing a third straight Western Conference title. He played 76 regular-season games and averaged 7.6 points, 4.0 rebounds and 3.4 assists a night.
Iguodala's contributions have never been defined by basic box score statistics, as he's a defensive ace whose primary responsibilities revolve around flustering opposing stud scorers by any means necessary.
Should Iguodala miss time, Brown may decide to feature a smaller unit that boasts Stephen Curry, Shaun Livingston, Klay Thompson, Kevin Durant and Draymond Green to help mitigate the effects of the veteran's absence. Brown will also likely bestow some extra minutes upon Ian Clark and Matt Barnes since the Dubs will be in need of perimeter reinforcements—particularly on defense—with Iguodala hobbled.
   
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference unless noted otherwise.

One injury changed Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals and potentially the series.
The Golden State Warriors were down 23 points in the second half before San Antonio Spurs star Kawhi Leonard reinjured his ankle. The result was an immediate turnaround and a 113-111 win for the Warriors.
Chris B. Haynes of ESPN provided a note on the comeback:
Warriors came back from 25 to take Game 1 from Spurs, winning 113-111. It’s the largest comeback win in a Conference Finals since 2002.
Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant helped fuel the run with 46 of their 74 combined points in the second half.
Sunday's victory not only gives the squad a 1-0 series lead, but it also marks nine straight wins to start the postseason for Golden State.
However, Leonard's injury remains the big story. After missing the clinching game against the Houston Rockets with an ankle injury, he was outstanding at the start of this one with 26 points and eight rebounds in 24 minutes of action. Unfortunately, he was forced to leave in the third quarter with what the team announced as a sprain.
Chris Herring of FiveThirtyEight described the team's problems without Leonard and Tony Parker, who is out the rest of the postseason:
This is where even having Parker would make a huge difference for Spurs. Kawhi and Parker were accounting for 70% of their drives per game.
This issue will linger throughout the series if the All-Star is unable to return.
Meanwhile, the Warriors relied on their two best scorers with Curry scoring 40 points on 14-of-26 shooting while Kevin Durant added 34 points and four blocks.
Curry was responsible for two of the biggest shots of the game, tying things up with under two minutes left and then building the lead to three with nine seconds:
If at first you don't succeed ... s://t.co/Hd9Kx2UrBo
Steph. Dagger. s://t.co/lnXD93nQE0
Although Zaza Pachulia (11 points) was the only other Warriors player in double figures, the team did enough to steal a Game 1 win after a miserable start.
The Spurs had shocked the home crowd early, jumping out to a 30-16 lead after the first quarter behind 11 points from LaMarcus Aldridge:
LaMarcus Aldridge​ &amp; the @spurs​ off to a 💪 start in Game 1! #NBAPlayoffs s://t.co/ZizF8iBP4a
ESPN Stats & Info noted the difference from the past series:
The Warriors only trailed for 12 of the 192 minutes in their series against the Jazz.

They trailed for 9:34 in the 1st quarter today.
San Antonio increased its lead to 25, and while the Warriors fought back a bit, it was still a 20-point margin at halftime.
Anthony Slater of the San Jose Mercury News summed up the issues:
Warriors now getting mauled on the glass. Two biggest weaknesses exposed in this first half: turnovers/defensive rebounding.
Shooting just 35.1 percent from the field also hurt the Warriors in the first half.
The Spurs remained in full control at the start of the third until Leonard was forced from the game following two separate incidents of rolling his ankle. It was 78-55 when he exited, but an 18-0 run immediately followed as the Warriors got back into the game.
Curry's shooting played a big role in the comeback:
Curry scored 19 PTS in Q3. He now has 33 PTS in the game.

@spurs still lead @warriors 90-81. 

Aldridge: 22 PTS. Manu: 13 PTS. s://t.co/9qcFfpRCWq
Golden State grabbed the lead with about four minutes left and then hit key shots down the stretch to stay in front.
Although San Antonio had a chance to tie the game down three on the final possession, the team was unable to pull even.
The Spurs will now have to figure out how to recover by Game 2, set for Tuesday at 9 p.m. ET.
While this should be a competitive series that goes the distance, falling behind 2-0 could be dangerous against such a formidable opponent.

The San Antonio Spurs announced star forward Kawhi Leonard would not return to Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals against the Golden State Warriors after suffering a sprained left ankle in Sunday's third quarter.
Marc J. Spears of ESPN's Undefeated reported Leonard will have an MRI Sunday night on his ankle.
Leonard originally injured his ankle in Game 5 of the Western Conference semifinals against the Houston Rockets. He did not play at the end of the fourth quarter or in overtime during the Spurs' 110-107 victory.
He also missed San Antonio's Game 6 series-clinching win against Houston.
The Spurs will only go as far as Leonard takes them. Heading into Sunday, the two-time All-Star was averaging 27.8 points, 7.7 rebounds and 4.7 assists per game in this postseason.
This San Antonio team lacks considerable star power beyond Leonard, so his injury makes the Spurs' quest for a championship exponentially more difficult. Few players in the NBA offer the same combination of offensive and defensive prowess that Leonard brings to the Spurs.
While he's sidelined, San Antonio may need to call upon sophomore Jonathon Simmons more frequently. Starting in Leonard's place against Houston in Game 6, Simmons chipped in 18 points on 8-of-12 shooting and four rebounds in 31 minutes.

San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich has never been shy about giving his honest opinion, and President Donald Trump has become the latest target.
"I feel like there is a cloud, a pall over the whole country in a paranoid, surreal sort of way that's got nothing to do with the Democrats losing the election," Popovich said Sunday, per Tom Orsborn of the San Antonio Express-News. "It's got to do with the way one individual conducts himself."
The 68-year-old never mentioned Trump by name, but it was clear he was talking about the president.
"For this individual, he's in a game show," he added, per Colin Ward-Henninger of CBS Sports. "And everything that happens begins and ends with him—not our people or our country. Every time he talks about those things, that's just a ruse. That's just disingenuous, cynical and fake."
Popovich has long been a critic of Trump, most notably after the election in November and in an interview with Marc J. Spears of The Undefeated a week later. His views didn't change after the inauguration in January.
Meanwhile, Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr has also been a loud opponent of the current president.
The Spurs are set to face the Warriors in Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals on Sunday. 

As soon as the NBA playoff bracket finalized, even casual fans knew an encounter between the Boston Celtics and Washington Wizards would be a good time. 
Which doesn't make it any less fun.
The Eastern Conference could've spit out the eight-seeded Chicago Bulls, the embodiment of dysfunction. Or the been-there-done-that Atlanta Hawks. Instead, the basketball gods deemed fans worthy of a John Wall-Isaiah Thomas confrontation which has almost predictably spit out a Game 7 after the former defended his home court with a game-winning shot in Game 6.
"I ain't going home," Wall said, according to Benjamin Hoffman of the New York Times. "They all come to my city wearing all black talking about, 'It's a funeral.' We worked too hard for this, and all we ask for is a Game 7. Fifty-Fifty."
Fans should prepare for a classic Monday night. These two franchises combine to boast one of the league's budding, grittiest rivalries, and both superstars are looking a legacy-defining moment right in the eye. 
Those overarching storylines aren't hard to figure out, though the game-deciding factors are best described as the Triple D's. Let's check them out below.
          
Wizards vs. Celtics Game 7
           
Top Storylines
Defense

Sounds simple, right? 
The Celtics aren't an overly intimidating defensive team. Their best player is 5'9", and Al Horford, 6'10" or not, isn't exactly an at-the-rim enforcer or monster on the boards.
But the Celtics make their money through smart defense. The Celtics have Thomas chasing Bradley Beal all over the court, whizzing through screens and making him take tough looks rather than letting him struggle with Wall all over the court.
This leaves Avery Bradley on Wall, which isn't as terrible of a matchup as it sounds.
"Avery's the best on-the-ball defender in the NBA—hands down," Thomas said, according to Kyle Hightower of the Associated Press. "A guy like John Wall you're not gonna stop. He does a hell of a job on him. He makes it tough. Nothing's easy. And that's what Avery Bradley does, each and every night."
There's no completely halting Washington's backcourt, but the Celtics have made life miserable. Wall scored 26 points in Game 6 on 25 shots. Beal, 33 on 26. They combined for three conversions from deep on 13 attempts.
Granted, Boston lost. But we're talking about going down on the road at the hands of a game-winning shot against a team with its back pressed to a, well, wall. If the defensive savviness and energy is the same Monday night and pairs with the next two points, the Celtics can roll into the series finale with confidence.
       
Depth
A photo posted by Washington Wizards (@washwizards)
Again, another basic point, but depth is a critical factor for both teams going into Monday.
The Wizards have the second-worst scoring bench in the playoffs, which is about par for the course for the entire season.
Win or not, this ugly trait showed up again in Game 6. Washington tried to establish a rotation so starters weren't jacking up miserable shot after miserable shot (such as Otto Porter Jr. going 0-of-5 over 36 minutes).
The result of this attempt? Ian Mahinmi scored six points over 15 minutes, Bojan Bogdanovic four over 17, including missing all three attempts from deep.
Boston's bench didn't exactly light it up in Game 6 either, but the tempo-based attack had four starters in double digits while scoring inside and out. It was easier to make a sweeping generalization all season that Boston is a deeper team, and it has proved to be the case, both in starting lineups and down the bench.
If some of Washington's key depth pieces can knock down shots, which is why the team made a move for Bogdanovic at the deadline, it will take some of the pressure off the backcourt continuing to struggle with consistency against Boston's defense.
       
Drought Drama
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
The Wizards have a lot working against them Monday night.
Wall and his upstart Eastern Conference contenders have lost every game on the road in this series. Game 1 was a 123-111 defeat where four starters actually scored double figures, yet Boston did the same, getting 33 from Thomas. Boston hit 51.5 percent of its attempts from the field, while Washington went 13-of-22 from the line.
Game 2 went to overtime, an eventual 129-119 victory for the Celtics. Wall dropped 40, yet the Celtics shot better than 50 percent from the field again and Thomas exploded for 53. Back in Boston for Game 5, the Celtics again shot better than 50 percent, easily taking a 123-101 decision, while Washington shot 35-of-91 from the floor and 7-of-29 from deep.
Now keep in mind, according to the Boston Herald's Ron Borges, the Wizards haven't actually won a postseason game in Boston since 1982.
This drought, especially the current one, is a combination of everything discussed. The Celtics aren't necessarily a true No. 1 seed, not after the Cleveland Cavaliers gifted it to them and they got off to a rocky playoff start. But they're a contender nonetheless, one with savvy defensive adjustments able to fluster a Washington team entirely relying on a pair of scorers too much.
As fun as it would be to see Wall pull off a worthwhile legacy moment and take a Game 7 in Boston, wiping the droughts slate clean in the process before squaring up with LeBron James, the three games in Boston have played out like so for a reason.
Maybe Wall can end the drought. Maybe not. Either way, the puzzle pieces here hint at the one of this postseason's best offerings.
         
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

Congratulations are in order to the NBA for making the act of slowly opening large square envelopes one of the most exciting (and stressful) acts in basketball. 
This year's lottery reveal will take place on Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN, and it is one of the most anticipated events since the practice began in 1985, when the New York Knicks won the first pick and eventually took Georgetown center Patrick Ewing.
The NBA draft class is loaded with talent this year, and there are some interesting lottery storylines that will have fans on the edge of their seats.
Here's a look at four teams to watch on Tuesday as well as some odds. For an explanation of how the NBA draft lottery works, check out this article from Alec Nathan of Bleacher Report.
      
Top Teams To Watch
Los Angeles Lakers and Philadelphia 76ers
These two teams go hand in hand for one reason: If the Lakers' pick lands outside the top three, then the 76ers will take their selection because it is only top-three protected.
A quick history on how that occurred: The 76ers acquired the pick in 2015 from the Phoenix Suns in a three-team deal that saw former 76ers point guard Michael Carter-Williams head to Milwaukee (Brandon Knight went from Phoenix to the Bucks). The Suns grabbed that Lakers pick in 2012 after they dealt Steve Nash to L.A.
Therefore, Philadelphia has Nash (and ex-general manager Sam Hinkie) to thank if it grabs the Lakers pick.
Currently, Los Angeles has a 46.9-percent chance of getting that top-three pick, meaning that Philadelphia has slightly better than coin-flip odds to steal the selection.
Imagine if the 76ers get the No. 1 pick and the Lakers' selection slots in at No. 4, meaning the 76ers would have two of the top four picks in the NBA draft. Maybe Hinkie was right all along.
     
Boston Celtics
The C's, one of just five teams remaining in the NBA postseason, are guaranteed a top-four pick and have a 25 percent chance of landing the No. 1 selection in a loaded NBA draft. Needless to say, they are in a pretty good spot.
Boston acquired the pick from the Brooklyn Nets in a trade that sent Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce out of town.
It will be interesting to see where Boston goes with this pick. The 2017 NBA draft is rich with point guard talent, but Boston's best player is star point guard Isaiah Thomas, who averaged 28.9 points per game this year and led the C's to the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.
However, Thomas' contract ends in 2018, when IT will be 29 years old. Of course, that isn't ancient by any means, but one has to wonder whether Boston would acquire a younger, cheaper point guard and slot him in as the floor general for the next 15 years.
     
Sacramento Kings
Admittedly, the Kings are a far less interesting basketball team with DeMarcus Cousins out of town, but they do hold two lottery picks in this year's draft.
Currently, those picks are in the No. 8 and No. 10 slots, but by virtue of having two lottery selections, they slightly increase their chances of one of those picks landing in the top three.
It is even possible for both of those picks to be in the top three, although the chances of that happening are quite slim.
Sacramento has some interesting young players, such as Buddy Hield and Willie Cauley-Stein. Adding two more lottery picks to that team could make them a dark-horse pick for a No. 8 seed next year.

Kentucky point guard De'Aaron Fox is climbing up draft boards and may even be surpassing Lonzo Ball, according to ESPN Insider Chad Ford.
"There also seems to be a growing movement among teams to rank Kentucky's Fox ahead of Ball," Ford wrote. "No one helped himself more in March than Fox did. He has a chance to go as high as No. 2 or No. 3 in this draft."
Ford added: "There also seems to be some growing appreciation for North Carolina State's Dennis Smith. It's possible that Markelle Fultz, Ball, Fox and Smith could be the first four players taken in the draft. That's how strong the point guard group is this year."
It's important to note that before the draft, NBA teams often have ulterior motives for leaking their opinions on players. Perhaps a team wants to drum up the value of a top-four pick knowing that teams behind it will be seeking a point guard. Maybe the team is hoping to drum up buzz around Fox in the hope that Ball falls to it somewhere in the top five. 
It's also possible, of course, that some teams simply prefer Fox. The Kentucky guard outplayed Ball in their two meetings this season, stifling him defensively and proving too athletic for Ball to shut down on the other end. In those games, Fox averaged 29.5 points, 6.5 assists and 1.5 turnovers, including a 39-point outburst in the Wildcats' Sweet 16 win over the Bruins.
Ball, on the other hand, averaged 12 points, 7.5 assists and five turnovers in the two matchups. 
They are completely different players and stylistically will fit better on certain teams and in particular schemes. While Ball is an elite passer and excellent perimeter shooter, there are questions about his defense and ability to create his own shot. Fox is a stifling defender who uses his speed and athleticism to attack the basket, meanwhile, though he was a mediocre shooter in college and is a decent, but not great, facilitator. 
Still, Ball has routinely been considered a top-three talent, while Fox generally finds himself on the edge of the top five. B/R's Jonathan Wasserman has Ball No. 3 on his big board and Fox at No. 6, while Ford has Ball at No. 2 and Fox at No. 5. 
But it only takes one team at the NBA draft to see things differently, and the latest rumblings suggest a few just might. 

Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr, who is recovering from a procedure on his back to alleviate spinal fluid leakage, will be in attendance for Sunday's Western Conference Finals series opener.
Mike Brown confirmed to reporters that Kerr will watch the game from the locker room after Monte Poole of CSN Bay Area reported the news.
Kerr, 51, attended practice Saturday for the first time since taking leave.
"It's obviously great anytime you get to hear his voice, see his face," Stephen Curry told reporters after Saturday's practice. "He's obviously been doing his homework in between. His downtime is to help us get prepared for the series, and you know he misses being around the day-to-day routine, the atmosphere, practice and locker rooms and games and all that. So for him to even just have the energy and ability to be here means a lot. Hopefully, he's feeling better."
Kerr first underwent back surgery in the summer of 2015 following the Warriors' championship run. Complications from the procedure have left him battling near-constant headaches and illnesses for nearly two years, most caused by a leak of spinal fluid. Kerr missed the first 43 games of the 2015-16 season because of complications.
While he was on the sidelines for all of this regular season, Kerr became increasingly ill during the Warriors' first-round playoff series against the Portland Trail Blazers. He took a leave of absence after coaching the first two games, with Brown taking over in the interim.
The Warriors remain heavy favorites over the Spurs despite Kerr's absence, but it's a promising sign he's getting closer to a return. Golden State will need every edge possible to get past Gregg Popovich's Spurs and will need Kerr on the sideline for the expected rubber match against the Cleveland Cavaliers in the NBA Finals.

Cleveland Cavaliers forward Channing Frye said on his podcast that LaVar Ball's public persona will make it "disgustingly easy" to dislike Lonzo Ball in the NBA.
"I'm going to give you the people's opinion," Frye said on Road Trippin' with RJ and Channing, (via Des Bieler of the Washington Post). "No matter what he does, it is going to be so easy to hate on [Lonzo] now.
"It's going to be disgustingly easy to hate on him."
Lonzo Ball is considered by most one of the two best prospects in the 2017 NBA draft class, alongside Markelle Fultz of Washington.
From a basketball perspective, it's nearly impossible to ignore Ball's potential. He's a 6'6" point guard with above-average athleticism, a preternatural passing gift and a three-point stroke that went in at a 41.2 percent rate—despite an unorthodox shot. After taking UCLA to the Sweet 16, Ball has basically the perfect resume for a top overall selection.
That said, his name has been in the news more lately because of the antics/outlandish nature of his father. LaVar Ball has spent the last few months on the press junket, doing everything from comparing himself/his son to Michael Jordan, to engaging in a yell-fest with Stephen A. Smith on ESPN, to hawking his Big Baller Brand merchandise everywhere.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
LaVar Ball has, at times, managed to overshadow the talent of his son—something some NBA teams will likely look at negatively. 
"I think from my perspective, everyone that looks at his situation that I've kind of been around or talked basketball with, they look at the kid with almost—pity is not the right word—but just like, 'Man, that situation just looks off,'" Richard Jefferson said on the podcast.
"If this kid was talking the way his dad was talking, oh, then it would be a whole ‘nother world," Jefferson continued. "It would be a whole 'nother, 'Oh, yeah, we’re going to baptize this kid.' But you see … a guy that just plays hard and passes the ball. And he's young, but he's compared to [Jason] Kidd and has this high level of basketball IQ just off his instincts. As a basketball player, you're a fan of that. That's a guy that you would want on your team."
It's likely the sentiments espoused by Jefferson and Frye represent those of many NBA players. That's the unfortunate reality of this situation. LaVar Ball's words, despite their supposed well-meaning intention, have cast a massive spotlight on his son before he's even played an NBA game. 

Twenty-five teams down, four to go.
That's right. There are only four more eliminations to go before the 2017 NBA champions are crowned. And the five teams left are the Washington Wizards, Boston Celtics, Cleveland Cavaliers, San Antonio Spurs and Golden State Warriors.
Vegas makes the favorite pretty clear, but you can never rule out chaos. Following the odds below, predictions for each of the remaining squads are laid out.
Wizards
The Celtics were so confident in their ability to close out their second-round series on the road that they wore all black to Game 6.
John Wall ruined the funeral procession by hitting a game-winning three:
Season on the line? Ain't no thing (➡️ @SIMPLEMobile) s://t.co/pnRLulnVIB
He then called out the C's on their little stunt:
"Don't come to my city, wearing all black, talking about it's a funeral." s://t.co/iYm1C5yYv1
Riding the momentum of those final minutes of Game 6, Washington will come out hot in Game 7. But that flame won't burn hot all game. As has been the case all series, the Wizards' lack of depth will come back to bite them again on the road.
Washington lost three games in Boston by an average of 14.7 points. The series capper will be more competitive than that, but the Wizards cast their last spell in Game 6.
Celtics
In their three home wins in the conference semifinals, the Celtics have four players averaging at least 18 points and seven averaging at least seven. Their balance and depth will win out again.
Isaiah Thomas has been particularly explosive in Boston, averaging 34.7 points and 7.3 assists, while shooting 49.3 percent from the field and 42.9 percent from three in home games this series.
One more monster performance could push IT closer to legend status, something he talked about following Game 6:
Wizards. Celtics. Monday. s://t.co/kNnrc60Dqi
Behind Thomas, the deeper, higher-seeded team will seal this series at home.
Cavaliers
If there was an official designation beyond rest, the vacationing Cavs probably hit it days ago.
By the time the Eastern Conference Finals tip off Wednesday, Cleveland will have been off for nearly two weeks. It eliminated the Toronto Raptors back on May 7.
ESPN.com's Micah Adams broke down just how much rest the Cavs' star player, LeBron James, has had over the last month or so:
LeBron James from April 10 to start of ECF:
Total days - 35
Games played - 8
Days rest - 27
Cleveland may show a hint of rust in Game 1, but this fresh of a LeBron is about as much of a Goliath as the NBA can offer right now. And the Celtics' or the Wizards' version of David won't have enough stones to take him down.
The Cavs should win in four. But the safe bet is on at least one letdown before the Finals. Cleveland will get to the last round with a postseason record of 12-1.
Spurs
After finishing off the last two games of their second-round series with the Houston Rockets without Kawhi Leonard, the Spurs have gotten some good news on their star lately.
According to ESPN.com's Michael C. Wright, Kawhi's a go for Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals:
Pop on Kawhi Leonard: "He's going to play."
Without him, San Antonio had almost no shot at pulling off the monumental upset. With him, well, the Spurs might get a game.
Leonard will be his typically dominant self (he's this postseason's leader in player efficiency rating, per Basketball Reference), but lumbering bigs LaMarcus Aldridge and Pau Gasol won't be able to keep up with Golden State's frontcourt.
Warriors
Golden State has steamrolled through the first two rounds of the playoffs. Among players with at least 50 postseason minutes, the Warriors have five of the top 14 in box plus-minus, per Basketball Reference.
And no matter how San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich configures and reconfigures his lineups, it's hard to imagine a situation where the Spurs can slow down all four members of Golden State's core.
If you put Kawhi on Kevin Durant, Draymond Green is free to tear LaMarcus Aldridge to pieces. Put Kawhi on Draymond and Danny Green on Durant, and you suddenly have a real problem covering Stephen Curry.
As good as the Spurs have been defensively all season, they'll finally be broken in the Western Conference Finals.

The Philadelphia 76ers are reportedly considering signing wing Robert Covington to a contract extension this offseason, according to Michael Kaskey-Blomain of ESPN.com.
Covington will make $1.5 million in 2017-18 and will become an unrestricted free agent next summer.
He has grown into a valuable starter for the Sixers since the team signed him in November 2014. He averaged 12.9 points, 6.5 rebounds and 1.9 steals in 31.6 minutes per game in 2016-17, though he shot poorly from the field (39.9 percent) and from behind the arc (33.3 percent).
While perimeter shooting was once Covington's calling card, his defense has become his identifying feature.
Zach Lowe of ESPN.com noted in March that "Covington has emerged as one of the very best wing defenders in the league," adding that he "manages all that without fouling much, or gambling his way out of Philly's scheme. He moves on his toes, so that he can change directions easily, and he has a smart sense of angles and timing."
Covington, 26, led all NBA players with 4.2 deflections per game, according to NBA.com, and he was often tasked with guarding an opponent's top perimeter player. At 6'9", he can guard four positions and has the three-and-D potential that fits perfectly next to franchise cornerstones Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons.
The Sixers have plenty of reasons to secure Covington to a long-term extension, and given that the team is flush with cap space, money isn't a concern. If he's allowed to hit the open market, there will be plenty of interest in his services.

The next few days will be exciting for NBA fans.
On Sunday, the Golden State Warriors and San Antonio Spurs kick off the Western Conference Finals.
On Monday, the Washington Wizards and Boston Celtics will play Game 7 of their second-round series, and on Tuesday, the NBA draft lottery will take place.
The defending NBA champion Cleveland Cavaliers will then host either the Wizards or the C's on Wednesday in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Finals.
It should be a lot of fun. Until then, here's a look at a new NBA mock draft with a focus on the top three picks.
     
Markelle Fultz: Boston Celtics
If the Boston Celtics land the No. 1 pick, former Washington point guard Markelle Fultz is a no-brainer selection. He might have the highest upside of any player in this draft and just came off a freshman season in which he averaged 23.2 points, 5.7 rebounds and 5.9 assists per game. He was an efficient scorer, too, making 47.6 percent of his shots.
Of course, he plays the same position as current point guard Isaiah Thomas, but Fultz believes that he and IT, who also played for Washington, could co-exist per Andrew Sharp of Sports Illustrated (h/t masslive.com):
He's been close with Isaiah Thomas since their workouts at Washington this summer. "I've talked to him a lot," Fultz says. And yes, the family is well aware that Boston currently has the best odds at the No. 1 pick. "We always talk about the opportunity. That would be the craziest backcourt. The way he scores, the way I can pass, and the way I can score… we can switch between the one and two."
A Thomas-Fultz pairing would be interesting. It's certainly not unprecedented for two point guards to share the floor with each other and find success. Walt Frazier and Earl "The Pearl" Monroe did so for the New York Knicks in the 1970s, leading to an NBA Finals win in 1973.
The contracts of Thomas and current Celtics shooting guard Avery Bradley expire in 2018, leaving the C's with numerous options if they choose Fultz or any other point guard. If they take Fultz, will they go with Fultz and Bradley into the future, or Fultz and Thomas? Keeping all three seems unlikely.
     
Josh Jackson: Phoenix Suns
Although the NBA draft is loaded with point guard talent, the Suns' best bet is to pick former Kansas forward Josh Jackson, a two-way player who would instantly boost Phoenix's defense, which ranked third-last in the NBA in defensive efficiency, per ESPN.com.
Here are some notes on Jackson from Jonathan Givony and Mike Schmitz of DraftExpress:
Even if his offense isn't there on a given night, he always gives you the defense, hustle, rebounding and passing component, which is attractive alongside the right type of players. Jackson has a very high floor, and plenty of upside to grow into given his athleticism, basketball IQ, versatility and competitiveness, which should all but guarantee him a spot in the top five of this year's draft.
Most importantly, Jackson, who doesn't need the ball to have a dominant performance, would mesh perfectly with current Suns shooting guard Devin Booker, who looks like he's going to average close to 30 points per game someday with the way he played last year after Eric Bledsoe was sidelined for the season with an injury.
Booker averaged 25.3 points per game in March (including a 70-point outburst against Boston) and 27.4 points in April. He's clearly the star Phoenix will build around in future years, and Jackson is a perfect asset to complement Booker's scoring skill set.
     
Lonzo Ball: Los Angeles Lakers
Current Los Angeles Lakers guard D'Angelo Russell may have ice in his veins, but he's not the answer at point guard for L.A. long term.
Russell, who is a prolific scorer at times (he dropped 40 points on 14-of-22 shooting against Cleveland this year) could definitely be the answer for the Lakers at shooting guard, though, especially if Lonzo Ball is running the point next year, which could create a deadly one-two punch for the purple and gold.
Ball is an excellent facilitator, averaging 7.6 assists for a UCLA team that posted 90 points per game last year. He was also an efficient scorer, making 55.1 percent of his field goals and 41.2 percent of his three-pointers.
UCLA loved to run, which could make Ball a great fit for the Lakers. Head coach Luke Walton's team pushed the pace last year as well, as it ranked sixth in the NBA, per ESPN.com.
For what it's worth, Ball told SportsNation (h/t Kyle Boone CBS Sports) that he would prefer to be a Laker than the No. 1 pick (Ball is from Chino Hills, California, which is less than an hour from Los Angeles).
Ultimately, it seems like Ball will inevitably land in L.A.

Before every NBA draft, observers get lured into a false sense of security.
One scouting report called a prospect a future All-Star, so he must be destined for great things. Based on the laws of average, however, he's more likely to fizzle.
That guy taken in the mid-first round has the look of a solid role player. Those expectations may feel tame, but they're actually a favorable result. More often than not, prospects taken outside the lottery never latch on to an NBA rotation.
Every prospect enters the Association with an endless array of possibilities, good and bad, but the following players especially possess a wide range of outcomes. Teams must weigh the risks and rewards before gambling on such a volatile talent, but upside typically wins out.
Let's highlight a few boom-or-bust choices selected in the first round of this pre-lottery mock draft.
   
Harry Giles, F, Duke

Harry Giles once carried No. 1-pick aspirations. Two ACL tears later and he's far from a lottery lock.
Given the 19-year-old's troubling health record, landing within the top 15 is optimistic. Yet, the forward's NBA Draft Combine measures will keep teams intrigued.
Standing at 6'10" with a 7'3" wingspan, he ties Michigan's Moritz Wagner for the longest hand width. He also recorded the sixth-best lane agility time (11.08 seconds) of all participating forwards.
According to ESPN Insider Chad Ford, Giles "could move in the Nos. 5-10 range" if teams are satisfied with his medical records. 
"He's the best prospect in the entire draft if he can fully recover and stay healthy," one NBA executive told Ford. "He's just a freaky talent."
His stock dwindled due to a limited freshman season, so any interested NBA franchise must exude patience with a player who logged just 300 minutes for Duke. Giles may never regain his uber-prospect status, but his ceiling remains higher than contemporaries potentially available outside the top 10. 
   
OG Anunoby, F, Indiana

Another injury risk, OG Anunoby's Indiana tenure ended early due to a knee injury. Health concerns paired with shooting woes may hinder his stock leading up to June 22.
During his sophomore season, the forward's three-point percentage cratered from 44.8 to 31.1. Even if he succeeds at the highest level, a 56.3 free-throw percentage will make him an instant "Hack-a-" candidate.
Yet, some teams view shooting mechanics as a teachable fix, with Kawhi Leonard serving as the most famous example of significant improvement under the finest coaching. Anunoby also offers incredible athleticism and a 7'2" wingspan, which is still impressive despite falling short of an unofficial 7'6" tally circulating before the combine.
His blend of superb speed and length presents elite defensive upside. If he develops into a top-tier perimeter stopper, he can carve a niche without significant offensive improvements.
A refined shooting touch, however, could unlock Anunoby's All-Star potential and optimize his driving abilities. There's too much top talent in this draft for anyone to gamble inside the top 10, but he's worth the risk as an end-of-lottery or late-first round choice. 
   
Rodions Kurucs, F, Latvia
Rodions Kurucs' stock is rising. In its latest mock draft, DraftExpress had the Oklahoma City Thunder taking the Latvian forward at pick No. 21. Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman ranked him No. 25 on his updated big board before the combine.
As Wasserman pointed out, teams must settle for imagining his peak with limited in-game film.
"He's only played 25 games in 2016-17, 24 of which have come in Spain's second division," Wasserman wrote. "But for a projected wing, Kurucs' athleticism and tools stand out under the NBA lens. And he shows regular flashes that highlight his scoring, shooting and defensive potential."
From the small sample size, they see a lengthy, gifted scorer with two-way appeal. Such mystique often appeals to NBA organizations more than a college athlete with a limited ceiling, so someone will draft and stash Kurucs later in the opening round.
Yet, if the hype keeps expanding, the cost could inflate without accounting for the risk and holdover period. He makes sense for a team, preferably a contender, in the 20s.  
   
Note: Combine data obtained from NBA.com.

Lonzo Ball's father, LaVar Ball, has emerged as an outspoken and controversial figure this past year. Accordingly, a number of NBA executives and front-office personnel spoke with Marc Berman of the New York Post about the impact the elder Ball might have on his son's draft stock.
"According to interviews with a dozen GMs, personnel directors and scouts, LaVar Ball's antics likely won't cause Lonzo to slide past No. 2 in the June 22 draft," Berman wrote. "But some wonder if Lonzo wouldn't be the clear-cut top pick if he didn't come with the baggage his father creates with his series of outlandish statements, including one that struck some as racially insensitive."
Will LaVar be a distraction?
"If you don't play him [Lonzo] the right way, is the father going to say something?" one Western Conference scout wondered. "And you don't want to have him on a big stage like New York. You're always thinking: What's next?"
An Eastern Conference executive added that it would be important for the team that drafted Ball to sit down with both father and son to "set the groundwork" before the season. And a Western Conference personnel director added: "My experience tells me I doubt it [affects his draft stock]. It's an annoyance, a distraction."
NBA executives don't seem to be worried about Lonzo as a player or teammate. He he was superb at UCLA and appeared unaffected or swayed by his father's antics, as one general manager noted:
"People are looking at the talents and the character of the individual. There are sometimes outside influences that you concern yourself with. But in this case, it doesn't seem to be disruptive to anyone but his own brand value. I don't think it will affect the team, as the kid is well-balanced. That's the most important thing. We are probably less concerned with the father than the media is making it out.
"We've heard the kid is very well-balanced, appears to be a very likable teammate and solid contributor to the UCLA program."
While Lonzo Ball was averaging 14.6 points, 7.6 assists and 6.0 rebounds per game, transforming UCLA's team in the process, his dad continued to find himself in the news.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
From saying his son would play for the Los Angeles Lakers in March and would be better than two-time reigning MVP Steph Curry to claiming he himself could beat Michael Jordan in a one-on-one game of basketball, many of LaVar Ball's comments have raised eyebrows.
None were more controversial than the senior Ball saying "You can't win no championship with three white guys because the foot speed is too slow" after UCLA was eliminated from the NCAA tournament. He said the remarks weren't racist in nature.
But LaVar Ball won't be on the court in the NBA or in the locker room. And given Lonzo Ball's elite passing talent, efficient if unorthodox perimeter shooting and calm demeanor, he continues to be considered a top prospect in this year's NBA draft. 

Gonzaga center Zach Collins had a unique experience at the NBA combine during his visit with the Portland Trail Blazers, as the team only sent its team psychologist to the meeting.
"It was kind of funny because Portland actually just sent out their team psychologist, and no one else from the staff was there," Collins told Jason Quick of CSNNW. "The lady gave me a computer and I took a personality test, kind of, and she just analyzed who I was as a person, and that was it."
Collins offered his own psychological profile to Quick.
"I'm just a regular guy who has an absolute obsession with the game of basketball and a passion to play," he said. "I'm not going to be satisfied once I get to the league. I want to be an All-Star. I want to win championships."
The Trail Blazers may not have sent their full staff to meet Collins since he could be off the board by pick No. 15. Both B/R's Jonathan Wasserman and ESPN's Chad Ford have Collins at No. 9 on their respective big boards, and Jon Rothstein of CBS Sports reported Collins is a draft riser: 
The biggest riser I'm hearing already on draft boards? Gonzaga's Zach Collins. NBA scouts love him. Played minimal minutes all season.
"We saw promising jump hooks and back-to-the-basket moves throughout the season, but Collins becomes really intriguing if the 10 threes and 74.3 percent free-throw mark are signs that point to consistent shooting in the future," Wasserman wrote. "The 13.6 rebounds and 4.1 blocks per 40 minutes should only help teams buy into his body and quickness."
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
"I like to run. But I like to play in half court as well," Collins noted, highlighting his versatility. "Running plays, running pick-and-rolls, I love fast breaks too. That's why I think I'm unique in this draft because I can play multiple types of styles."
He added, "My skill set involves me playing on both ends of the floor—shooting, guarding the perimeter, things like that."
Collins is the type of center teams are trying to find in the modern NBA. The ability to both protect the rim defensively and stretch from the perimeter on offense is hard to find, which is why Collins—after playing just 17.2 minutes per game during his freshman season at Gonzaga—could be a top-10 pick.

Numerous top prospects, such as Lonzo Ball, Josh Jackson and Jayson Tatum, have skipped the NBA Draft Combine, but others have taken the opportunity to showcase their talents. 
In some cases, all players needed to do was stand straight and stretch their arms as wide as possible in order to impress NBA teams.
Here's a look at the most notable measurements from the NBA Draft Combine. All figures are via nba.com.
     
Jonathan Jeanne
The player with the longest measured wingspan (7'6 ½") and height in shoes (7'2") is just 19 years old and averaged 13.7 points, 9.7 rebounds and 3.9 blocks in 11 games for SLUC Nancy Basket, a team in the Pro A (the top tier of French professional basketball), per DraftExpress.
He's young, gigantic and was productive (albeit in limited action) overseas. Given his measurements, it's certainly possible a team will take a chance on him in the first round.
However, Jeanne is light for a 7'2" big man, weighing in at 207 pounds. He'll need to gain some weight and improve his strength in order to hang with other big men in the NBA.
Jonathan Givony of DraftExpress watched Jeanne during the NBA Draft Combine and offered these comments:
Jonathan Jeanne showed some nice flashes as a finisher and rim-protector, but also his lack of strength and experience with foul trouble.
Jeanne is all over the place in recent mock drafts. He's slotted at No. 51 for NBADraft.net, No. 24 for DraftExpress and No. 29 and No. 30 on two of the four mock drafts on Basketball Insiders.
A team will likely take a chance on him in the middle to the end of the first round and give him a redshirt year or two to bulk up and develop.
      
Harry Giles
Harry Giles suffered devastating knee injuries in 2013 and 2015 and scuffled through a freshman season at Duke in which he was clearly trying to regain the old form that made him such a touted prospect coming out of high school.
The fact that Giles is a consensus first-round selection in NBA mock drafts (for example, NBADraft.net has him going No. 21 to the Oklahoma City Thunder) right now shows how much potential people think he has even with those major injuries.
He certainly helped his cause at the NBA Draft Combine, measuring in at 6'10 ½" with shoes alongside a 7'3 ¼" wingspan. Here's David Ray of NBADraft.net with more:
Giles has great size to play the 4, and even the capability of sliding to the 5. It isn’t just his length, Giles tipped the scales at a chiseled 232 pounds with just 5.2% body fat. If his height and weight stats weren’t already good enough, his mitts measured out the biggest of anyone in the field at 10.75’’ wide and 9.5’’ long.
If Giles didn't have those knee injuries, he would be a clear top-10 (and maybe top-five) pick in this year's NBA draft even though the top of the player pool is loaded with talent this year.
Don't be surprised to see a team in the mid-teens take a chance on him.
     
Justin Jackson
For the record, two Justin Jacksons participated in this year's NBA Draft Combine. You probably know at least one of them, that being Justin Jackson from North Carolina, the forward who led the Tar Heels to the national championship.
The other Justin Jackson is from Maryland, and that's the player we are discussing here due to his 7'3 ¼" wingspan. Of course, that figure isn't unprecedented among NBA big men, but Jackson is a 6'7" forward.
Jackson played his freshman season for the Terrapins and averaged 10.5 points and 6.0 rebounds per game. Although his wingspan undoubtedly caught folks' attention, some analysts believe he should return to school.
Fran Fraschilla and Jeff Goodman of ESPN thought Jackson, who has not hired an agent and can go back to Maryland, should stay in college. Here's some more on Goodman's take, via Jonas Shaffer of the Baltimore Sun:
Goodman said three 'NBA guys' told him Monday that they thought Jackson should return to Maryland and play his way into a late-first-round or early- to mid-second-round selection.
'He could sneak into the end of the first round maybe, but if he comes back, he could solidify himself with a really good year next year into being a first-round pick.'
That might be the best option for Jackson. Guard Melo Trimble was Maryland's star and No. 1 scorer last year. With him entering the NBA draft, Jackson can look to take those responsibilities and improve his standing for the 2018 draft.

We're officially sitting on the doorstep of the 2016-17 NBA conference finals, folks. After months and months of basketball action, we're almost down to our final four teams. 
On Monday, the Boston Celtics and the Washington Wizards will face off in Game 7, with the winner advancing to battle the Cleveland Cavaliers. The Golden State Warriors and the San Antonio Spurs will actually kick off the Western Conference Finals Sunday, so it's safe to say the big series before the really big one are officially here.
We're here to break down the conference finals schedule, along with television and live-stream information. Just keep in mind that the opponent and the location of the Cavaliers' games are still up in the air. If the No. 1 seed Celtics advance, they'll have home-court advantage. If the Wizards move on, Cleveland will have home-court.
We'll also examine some of the latest playoff-related storylines heading into the conference finals.
    
Conference Finals Schedule
Latest Buzz
John Wall is Clutch
The Celtics and the Wizards have yet to decide their semifinal series largely because of John Wall's late-game three-pointer with mere seconds on the clock. That shot gave the Wizards a one-point lead and eventually a 92-91 victory.
John Wall put the Wizards on his back last night. (▶️ @Gatorade) s://t.co/9mENdmPlz2
Wall had some choice words for the Celtics—who went with all-black uniforms—after the game.
"Don't come to my city, wearing all black, talking about a funeral," Wall told ESPN.
Obviously, Wall's epic shot kept Washington alive for at least one more game. It's as clutch a shot as we've seen in this postseason so far. Wall has grown into a true leader and a legitimate star over the past seven seasons. He's also become an increasingly popular player, despite what some pundits might think.
"I'm not sure he's as popular as Tony Kornheiser," Colin Cowherd of Fox Sports 1 said of Wall about the TV and radio personality and former Washington-based sports writer, per Matt Bonesteel of the Washington Post.
Judging from all the media attention Wall's Game 6 winner has received, it seems he's popular enough.
JWall you are an absolute stud! Talk about Clutch..Wow!🏀 On to the next #DCfamily "I ain't going home" -@JohnWall
He's also incredibly clutch.
Could the Western Conference Finals Be Good Again?
Aside from the Celtics-Wizards series, this year's edition of the postseason has been lacking in exciting moments. The same cannot be said for last year, when the Warriors and Oklahoma City Thunder went seven games a series before the seven-game Finals.
On paper, Golden State seems like a team that should blow through the conference finals en route to another potential matchup with the Cavaliers. However, the Spurs might actually present an interesting challenge.
Consider the fact the Warriors had the league's most potent offense (115.9 points per game) in the regular season, while the Spurs had the NBA's second-best defense (98.1 points per game allowed). The Warriors have a pretty good defense of their own, but you can never count out the team-oriented offense of a Gregg Popovich-coached team.
One thing the Spurs have been during Pop's tenure is consistent.
"The thing they do year in and year out is stay consistent," Warriors assistant Ron Adams said, per Monte Poole of CSNBayArea.com. "This team, in particular, seems to perform well in the margins of the game, the hustle parts of the game. Over the course of time, they've always been so good in those areas. That's what makes them who they are."
While it seems unlikely this series will go seven games—our friends at OddsShark.com have Golden State as 2-13 favorites on Sunday—this could still prove to be an intriguing series. It could also prove to be a longer one than the Warriors have experienced since last year's finals.
Cavaliers Rested, Waiting
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Whichever team ends up meeting Cleveland in the Eastern Conference Finals is going to have its hands full.  Fatigue could quickly be a factor, as there will only be one day of rest between the end of the semifinal round and the start of the conference finals.
Cleveland, on the other hand, has been resting and waiting since last weekend.
If the Spurs manage to push the Warriors to six or seven games, Cleveland's rest could prove to be a mismatch too. Two consecutive seven-game series likely had a hand in the Warriors' meltdown in the Finals last year. Could the same thing happen this year? It's certainly possibly.
Of course, this is assuming the Cavaliers and the Warriors are the teams meeting in the final series of the season. As likely as the three-peat seems, there's no guarantee it actually happens.
You know it's there, but we've got four more games to win before we can reach an NBA Finals. ... We've got to stay locked in and focused on the now," Warriors forward Draymond Green said, per Tom Withers of the Chicago Tribune. "If that happens, it happens. I know we've got to take care of our business and I'm sure they think the same way."
The Cavaliers and Warriors are both rested and waiting, which is bad news for their upcoming opponents. Whichever team has the shorter series next could have the advantage in the finale.
IT'S OVER: Trademark filing officially confirms this as the new Pistons logo. Colored version + chronicle of leaks 👉 s://t.co/2jdd7MOkeh s://t.co/JwJhgQ5G6A
The Detroit Pistons' long-awaited logo redesign is complete! At least it seems so. 
Conrad Burry at SportsLogos.net reported that as of May 13, the European Union Intellectual Property Office lists a new officially trademarked logo for the team. 
The switch comes after nearly a year of false starts and errant pieces of Pistons merch featuring the latest logo. 
Fan response remains to be seen, but it could prove to be a boon for the team, at least on the merchandising side. 
[SportsLogos.net]

On Saturday, the NBA said in its Last Two Minute officiating report that one second should have been added to the game clock after Kelly Oubre Jr. fouled Kelly Olynyk in the closing stages of the Washington Wizards' 92-91 Game 6 win over the Boston Celtics.
According to the report, a foul was whistled at 2.7 seconds, "but the clock runs to 1.7 seconds before stopping. The clock should have been stopped earlier automatically on the whistle or by the neutral clock operator."
However, the NBA noted "instant replay is not permitted" in that situation.
The Celtics led the Wizards 91-89 with 7.9 seconds remaining after Al Horford banked in a go-ahead jumper, but John Wall answered four seconds later with a three to propel Washington back in front.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
After Oubre fouled Olynyk, the Celtics were left with a small window to work with when it came to drawing up a potential game-winner.
Isaiah Thomas proceeded to hoist a triple from the left wing, but it clanged off back iron and careened to the floor.
With the playoff series tied 3-3, the Celtics and Wizards will now head to TD Garden for Monday night's Game 7.

Diehard New York Knicks fans had to eat a lot of crow last season. 
But one fan in particular ended up having to show intense pride for a rival at the workplace after losing a bet. 
The fan entered into a friendly wager with a co-worker, with stakes being that if either man's team won 40 games, the other had to have a custom uniform made of the opposing squad and wear it to work. 
In this case, the opposition was the Toronto Raptors, who easily topped the Knicks' 31-win season with 51 victories, causing the losing Knicks fan to have an Andrea Bargnani Raptors set customized for his appearance at work. 
Of course, there are much harsher penalties for losing a bet. This guy may have gotten off easy.
[The Score]

Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr attended the team's home practice Saturday for the first time since taking a leave of absence to deal with pain related to back surgery three weeks ago.
According to ESPN.com's Chris Haynes, Warriors guard Stephen Curry was happy to see Kerr getting involved: "It's obviously great any time you get to hear his voice, see his face. He's obviously been doing his homework in between. His downtime is to help us get prepared for the series and you know he misses being around the day-to-day routine, the atmosphere, practice and locker rooms and games and all that. So, for him to even just have the energy and ability to be here means a lot. Hopefully, he's feeling better."
Per Anthony Slater of the Mercury News, Warriors general manager Bob Myers recently said there is no timetable for Kerr's return to the sidelines after the coach underwent a spinal leak procedure to alleviate pain.
Kerr last coached during Game 2 of Golden State's first-round playoff series against the Portland Trail Blazers.
The Warriors haven't missed a beat without Kerr. They completed a sweep of Portland under Mike Brown and followed that up with a sweep of the Utah Jazz in the second round.
Kerr missed 43 games last season due to back issues, and the Warriors went 39-4 with current Los Angeles Lakers head coach Luke Walton leading the way.
All of those wins were credited to Kerr, who holds a regular-season record of 207-39 in three years with the Warriors, which is good for a winning percentage of .841.
Kerr has also taken the Warriors to two NBA Finals, winning a championship in 2015.
Golden State will begin its Western Conference Finals series against the San Antonio Spurs on Sunday, with Game 1 at Oracle Arena in Oakland, California.

The Cleveland Cavaliers haven't hit the hardwood since they completed a second-round sweep of the Toronto Raptors on May 7. 
As a result, the defending champions are getting a little antsy as they continue to wait to see whether they'll square off against the Washington Wizards or Boston Celtics in the Eastern Conference Finals. 
"I know our team is anxious to play," Cleveland head coach Tyronn Lue said. "[Kyle] Korver and LeBron, those guys are talking about it," he said, according to ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin. "So our guys are just anxious to play and ready to go out there."
Lue also said the team has embraced different activities like yoga and competitive conditioning sessions as a way to keep the Cavaliers locked in during a layoff that will span a week-plus. 
"You got to keep them engaged and, you know, show them new things," he said. "I've got to trick them at times, but they've been pretty locked in and we've just got to continue to do what we do. It is what it is, and we just got to continue to work on what we need to get better at and then whoever we play we just got to be ready."
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Tristan Thompson Beautiful Assist to Kevin Love
Tristan Thompson No Look Assist to LeBron
LeBron Dunks on the Warriors
If there's good news for the Wine and Gold, it's that they won't have to wait long to find out who their next opponent is. 
Following John Wall's heroic display Friday night, the Wizards and Celtics will square off in a winner-take-all Game 7 Monday evening at TD Garden (8 p.m. ET, TNT). 
During the regular season, the Cavaliers—who are 8-0 to this point in the postseason—went 3-1 against the Celtics and 2-1 against Wall's Wizards. 

Cleveland Cavaliers center Walter Tavares is out indefinitely after suffering a hand injury.
According to Marc J. Spears of ESPN's The Undefeated, Tavares fractured his right hand during practice Thursday.
The 25-year-old Cape Verde native signed with the Cavs on April 12 and appeared in one regular-season game for the team, putting up six points, 10 rebound and six blocks.
Tavares also took part in one regular-season game for the Atlanta Hawks this season, but he spent the bulk of the campaign in the NBA Development League.
The 2014 second-round draft pick averaged 10.6 points, 7.7 rebounds and 2.7 blocks per game this season in the D-League, and he was named the NBA Development League Defensive Player of the Year.
Cleveland brought in Tavares after it lost center Andrew Bogut for the season because of injury, but he has not appeared in any of the team's eight playoff games.
Tristan Thompson, Kevin Love and Channing Frye will continue to be the Cavaliers' primary bigs entering the Eastern Conference Finals against either the Boston Celtics or Washington Wizards.

After missing the San Antonio Spurs' series-clinching Game 6 win over the Houston Rockets on Thursday because of an ankle injury, superstar forward Kawhi Leonard will play in Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals against the Golden State Warriors.       
According to Jabari Young of the San Antonio Express-News, Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich revealed Saturday that Leonard will be good to go for Sunday's contest at Oracle Arena.
Despite Leonard's absence, the Spurs throttled Houston 114-75 in Game 6 at the Toyota Center to advance to their first Western Conference Finals since 2014.
Jonathon Simmons scored 18 points in place of Leonard, but the MVP candidate's return is likely a necessity in order for San Antonio to compete with the Golden State juggernaut.
Leonard averaged a career-high 25.5 points per game during the regular season to go along with 5.8 rebounds and 3.5 assists.
His playoff performance has been even better with 27.8 points, 7.7 rebounds and 4.7 assists per contest.
San Antonio went 2-1 against the Warriors during the regular season, although one of those wins came in a game that saw both teams rest the bulk of their top players.
Even with Leonard in the fold, the Spurs are 10-point underdogs entering Sunday's Game 1, per OddsShark.

Agents for top prospects in the 2017 NBA draft on June 22 are reportedly worried about what would happen to their clients if the "loaded" Boston Celtics selected them.             
On Saturday, ESPN's Chad Ford passed along comments one player representative made about the situation with the Celtics, who finished with the Eastern Conference's best record and are still alive in the 2017 NBA playoffs but will pick early in the draft thanks to a swap with the Brooklyn Nets.
"I have deep respect for the Celtics," the agent said. "They may have the best GM and head coach in the league. But I'd have to understand what the plan would be for my client before I let them come. They are loaded at every position. There's a real danger that they take a player and either he plays a limited role [off] the bench or he becomes an asset to be traded to a situation that we're uncomfortable with. It's tough."
Boston owns the best chance (25 percent) to land the first overall pick in Tuesday's NBA draft lottery thanks to the Nets' dreadful 20-62 campaign. The Celts will draft no worse than fourth, which means they are guaranteed a shot at one of the class' most coveted players.
A trio of point guards—Washington's Markelle Fultz, UCLA's Lonzo Ball and Kentucky's De'Aaron Fox—along with Kansas small forward Josh Jackson headline the group of available prospects.
Jackson makes the most sense from the group since the Celtics already feature star point guard Isaiah Thomas. Even the Jayhawks standout would be forced to contend with Jae Crowder and Jaylen Brown for playing time at the 3 for a team not expected to lose any key pieces in free agency, though.
That's an unusual situation for a prized rookie, most of whom are drafted to rebuilding teams where they can immediately take on massive roles.
In turn, the Celtics might try to leverage the pick to acquire an established star. Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported ahead of February's trade deadline that Boston included the selection in talks with the Indiana Pacers for Paul George, but the sides never reached a deal.
How much the Celtics can demand likely depends on where they land after the lottery. The first pick, giving the other team an option to choose from any of the aforementioned top players, would command far more on the trade market than if Boston slides to No. 4.
If the C's keep the selection, whatever prospect they choose will need to earn playing time, which understandably seems to have agents rattled with six weeks until the draft at the Barclays Center in New York.           

After two days of drills, athletic testing, measurements, interviews and five-on-five action, the 2017 NBA Draft Combine is officially in the books.
Several of this year's top prospects, including Lonzo Ball, Jayson Tatum and Josh Jackson, opted to skip the event. But there has still been plenty of up-and-coming NBA players who impressed.
A number of draft stocks rose over the last two days. Here are the most impressive.
     
Frank Jackson
Duke point guard Frank Jackson started the combine on the fence about whether he would actually stay in the draft. After looking like one of the best players in Chicago during the five-on-five action on Thursday, the choice became a pretty obvious one.
Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported the decision:
Duke freshman guard Frank Jackson will remain in the 2017 NBA Draft and hire an agent, league sources tell @TheVertical.
Jackson followed up the momentum of Thursday with some impressive numbers in the athletic testing portion of the combine.
His max vertical leap of 42" ranked second among all participants, and his standing vertical jump of 35.5" ranked third.
The elite athleticism he displayed over the last two days was a big part of why he was a top-20 recruit heading into college, per Scout.com. After a year of playing third fiddle to Luke Kennard and Grayson Allen, he finally had a chance to show it again.
      
Hamidou Diallo
The only player with a higher max vertical leap than Jackson this year? That would be Kentucky's Hamidou Diallo, who forced the combine to get creative in how to measure his hops.
Bleacher Report's Scott Phillips captured the scene:
Hamidou Diallo nearly cleared the vertical on his first try so they brought in stuff to make it go higher. Ridiculous leaping ability. s://t.co/BstSRKAobx
Diallo really had no option but to impress. He didn't get to show anything at Kentucky this past season because he didn't appear in a single game after enrolling midseason.
That made him this year's so-called man of mystery, something he may not be much longer after his performance in Chicago.
His 44.5" max vertical leap was tops for this year's class. That, in combination with his 6'5" height and 6'11 ¼" wingspan, makes him a very intriguing guard prospect.
     
Jordan Bell
Jackson and Diallo are both one-and-dones (Diallo technically isn't even that), which adds to the intrigue. NBA coaching staffs and front offices love getting ahold of talent as early as possible.
And upperclassmen are generally viewed as having less potential, often because they couldn't dominate the college level until they were older than most of their opponents.
But showing the kind of athleticism that Oregon junior Jordan Bell did might subdue some of the concern that typically accompanies an older prospect.
According to Jonathan Givony of DraftExpress, the 6'8 ½" Bell ran the fastest shuttle time in combine history:
Jordan Bell's 2.56 shuttle run time is the fastest in NBA Combine history. Amazing for a big man. Full DX profile: s://t.co/C3gkmVtEi5
Add that to a 6'11 ¾" wingspan and a 38" max vertical leap and you suddenly have a really interesting big man to analyze.
If he can add a consistent three-point stroke, something he showed flashes of in this video from DraftExpress' Mike Schmitz, look out:
Jordan Bell's stroke has improved. Has some touch from the corners. s://t.co/900mS8iWL8
Putting it all together may take time, but Bell may have already shown enough to convince some team to take him at the end of the first round.

With a trip to the Eastern Conference Finals on the line, one has to wonder—will John Wall and the Washington Wizards wear all black going into Boston Monday night? 
The Boston Celtics donned all black Friday night and Wall took offense, hitting one of the postseason's best shots to date late, stealing a win and keeping the dream of advancing for a dance with the Cleveland Cavaliers alive.
Storylines aren't limited to attire here. In fact, they abound going into Monday. The Celtics still seem hungry to prove they aren't a mediocre top seed, and the Wizards have respect on the mind in the franchise's first Game 7 since 1979, according to ESPN Stats & Info.
Here's a look at the viewing info for the game:
Wall and the Wizards flirted with elimination Friday, a hole dug for themselves strictly through an inability to win on the road. They've dropped all three road games in this series, including the first two, where Boston's Isaiah Thomas erupted for a combined 86 points.
It was Wall who put on a show Friday, though, angry about a little perceived disrespect from the Celtics before the game, according to the Washington Post's Tim Bontemps: "Don't come to my city, wearing all black, talking about a funeral."
All Wall did was hit the game-winning shot: 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
It helped the Wizards overcome the fact they shot 5-of-24 from three and missed eight attempts from the free-throw line (13-of-21).
Now the pressure is on the Wizards to actually steal a game in Boston.
That's easier said than done, especially after Boston looked like the better team for much of the Game 6 affair. Thomas dropped 27 points but had some serious help from Avery Bradley (27 points) and Al Horford (20). A strong performance on the defensive end of the court helps explain some of Washington's shoddy shooting numbers, even if Wall's game-winning shot overshadows it.
In fact, much of Boston's hopes hinge on defense and rebounding. Celtics head coach Brad Stevens made a smart move in having Thomas chase Bradley Beal all over the court as opposed to having him get abused in the post by Wall. Beal scored 33 in Game 6, but needed 26 shots to get there and went 1-of-8 from range.
It seems like Boston's backcourt will get there one way or another. Thomas has 27 or more in three games so far. Bradley's checked in there twice. Horford keeps doing the little things like getting those guys clean looks on screens that normally go unnoticed, yet have given the Wizards fits.

To say the Celtics are the deeper, better team would be a gross understatement. If Wall or Beal have a bad shooting night, it takes a miracle like the latter's shot in Game 6 to matter.
ESPN.com's Zach Lowe pointed out Washington's depth issue on Friday: "Washington is plus-2 for the series. Its starting lineup is plus-64 in 90 minutes. You see where this is going, right? All other Wiz lineups are minus-62 in 155 minutes—equivalent to losing a 48-minute game by almost 20 points. The Wiz bench: still a disaster zone."
Washington got 13 bench points Friday night.
To top it all off, according to the Boston Herald's Ron Borges, Washington hasn't won a playoff game in Boston since 1982. 
A photo posted by Boston Celtics (@celtics)
Long story short, when it comes down to prediction time, it's hard to roll with the visiting Wizards. Maybe Wall and his team show a better defensive effort than they had in TD Garden so far this series, but it might be a case of too little, too late. Boston has the deeper team and throughout the series has figured out how to make the Wizards work overtime for every point.
Washington is a great story as a newfound disruptor in the Eastern Conference. But the roster still feels a piece away from serious contention, not to mention the experience factor.
Monday, look for the Celtics to make life hard on Beal again while riding the comforts of home to another convincing win. 
Prediction: Celtics 118, Wizards 108
                   
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

University of Kentucky point guard De'Aaron Fox believes he's the best prospect in the 2017 NBA draft, even if he doesn't end up as the No. 1 overall selection June 22.
On Friday, John Jackson of the Associated Press (via NBA.com) passed along comments the 19-year-old New Orleans native made about the battle with fellow point guards Markelle Fultz and Lonzo Ball atop the draft class.
"I feel like I'm the best," Fox said at the NBA Draft Combine in Chicago. "If they're drafted above me, I'm cool with it. You have to play basketball at the end of the day."
Fox won a head-to-head duel with Ball in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA tournament. He scored a season-high 39 points to go along with four assists and three rebounds in the Wildcats' 86-75 win. His UCLA Bruins counterpart finished with 10 points, eight dimes and three boards.
The first-team All-SEC selection told the AP that facing off with Ball was major motivation in that performance.
"He's the consensus No. 1 pick, he could be the No. 1 pick," Fox said. "I'm just extremely competitive. That's what I tell everybody. It didn't matter if it was him or one of the other top picks. I'm competitive, and I came out hot."
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
Ball has generated the most buzz among the draft prospects, mostly because his father, LaVar Ball, has been a constant presence on the airwaves with a series of over-the-top comments.
That said, Markelle Fultz from the University of Washington has maintained an inside track on becoming the first overall pick next month for most of the draft process. He averaged 23.2 points, 5.9 assists and 5.7 rebounds during his only season with the Huskies.
He told Bleacher Report's Jason King in March his goals go far beyond getting picked first.
"When I was younger, trying to make the make the freshman and JV team, my dream was always to make it to the NBA," Fultz said. "At first, I was thinking about just getting to the NBA, just watching the NBA, being one of the All-Stars in the NBA. But I actually want to be the best to ever play this game. And I think I have a pretty good chance to do that."
All three freshman sensations should have bright futures in the NBA. Add in University of Kansas small forward Josh Jackson, and the class is loaded with All-Star potential inside the top five, which will make the 2017 NBA draft lottery all the more intriguing.
ESPN will broadcast the results of the pingpong balls at 8 p.m. ET on Tuesday.

Fact: The Wizards beat the Celtics 92-91 on Friday night, forcing the first Game 7 for the Washington franchise since the 1979 Eastern Conference Finals against the Spurs. 

The Philadelphia 76ers are not likely to get a look at what Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons can do on the floor together during the NBA Summer League. 
76ers head coach Brett Brown told the 97.5 Fanatic Morning Show with Anthony Gargano and Eytan Shander (via PhillyVoice's Matt Mullin) that Embiid and Simmons will likely sit out the summer games. 
"I don't think we've announced [anything official], but I think everybody should bunker in to hear that news [that Simmons and Embiid won't play in summer league]," he said. "I don't think anything's become official. But we're fine with the work these guys are putting in. People could walk into our gym even now and see the attendance of our players."
Embiid, who was the No. 3 pick in 2014, made his long-awaited pro debut last season. He suffered a foot injury prior to the draft that required multiple surgeries and left him unable to step on the court for two years. 
He was only able to play in 31 games during the 2016-17 season before being shut down with a knee injury that required surgery. The 23-year-old averaged 20.2 points and 7.8 rebounds per game for the 76ers. 
Simmons was the top pick in last year's draft out of LSU. He fractured the fifth metatarsal bone in his right foot during a scrimmage in training camp that left him unable to play in a game. 
Despite not having Simmons for the entire season and missing Embiid for 51 games, the 76ers' 28 wins in 2016-17 matched their win total from the previous two years combined. 
A photo posted by Nate Robinson (@naterobinson)
Nate Robinson continues to campaign for another NBA opportunity.                
His quest back to the pros included a stint in Israel, the NBA Developmental League and even an NFL tryout with the Seattle Seahawks. All the while, the diminutive point guard has pleaded for another shot with an NBA franchise.
A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
A photo posted by Nate Robinson (@naterobinson)
Actions ultimately speak louder than words. Playing on Venezuela's Guaros de Lara, the 32-year-old showed a glimpse of his old hops with an acrobatic dunk.
Robinson didn't leap as high as he once did when winning three NBA Slam Dunk Contests, but he still used the highlight to lobby for another gig.
Of course, an NBA player must do more than dunk, and the 5'9" energizer netted a subpar 39.4 field-goal percentage in his last 88 games dating back to the 2013-14 season.
[Nate Robinson] 

The 2017 NBA playoffs needed another shocking victory, and the Kawhi Leonard-less San Antonio Spurs delivered on cue in the semifinal round with a 114-75 Game 6 win over the Houston Rockets.
Now the wounded Spurs have to find a way to beat a well-rested Golden State Warriors squad that also thrives with a fast-paced play style. Despite similarities in game flow, the defending Western Conference champions have a starting lineup more equipped to keeping the offensive pressure on San Antonio.
Fox Sports' Skip Bayless, who's an avid Spurs fan, gave his early prediction, which seems fitting considering his allegiance:
Spurs in 6 over LeBron in the 2017 Finals.
Maybe Bayless felt confident in his pick after talking to journalist Adrian Wojnarowski's sources, who believe Leonard should be available for Game 1:
Sources: There's strong optimism within the Spurs that Kawhi Leonard will be prepared to play Game 1 on Sunday vs. Golden State.
Here are the details for Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals. Will the Warriors lose for the first time this postseason on Sunday?
   
Warriors vs. Spurs Game 1 Preview 
San Antonio should be able to carry over one ingredient from its last victory: dominating the paint.
On Thursday, the Spurs outscored the Rockets 62-18 on the inside. Regardless of the defender, LaMarcus Aldridge had a license to gouge the Rockets on the inside:
LaMarcus Aldridge puts up 34 points &amp; 12 rebounds to lead the @spurs in Game 6 victory! #GoSpursGo s://t.co/5VGscazCez
Pau Gasol and Aldridge and went a combined 21-of-37 from the field for 44 points. Neither attempted a three-pointer. The Spurs duo also pulled down 23 rebounds.
The Warriors added Kevin Durant to a star-studded roster last summer but lost two big men in Festus Ezeli and Andrew Bogut. Despite winning 67 games and earning home-court advantage throughout the postseason, many wonder how Golden State stacks against a team with capable inside scorers. Can acting head coach Mike Brown rely on Zaza Pachulia and JaVale McGee to defend Gasol and Aldridge close to the rim?
The Warriors could place tremendous pressure on the Spurs to pick up the scoring pace. Golden State averages 115.3 points per game, which ranks No. 1 among all playoff teams. The Warriors haven't matched against offensive juggernauts, but they're not exactly wet paper bags on defense, either. The Portland Trail Blazers and Utah Jazz combined to average under 100 points per contest against the defending Western Conference champions.

The Spurs ranked in the bottom half among postseason teams in three-pointers made, which bodes well for the Warriors, who rank No. 4 in that category (11.4).
Nonetheless, San Antonio has a knack for creating second-chance opportunities, bringing down 11.8 offensive rebounds per game compared to Golden State's 7.5 average in the category. As a smaller team with backup-quality big men, expect the Warriors to struggle with shortening the Spurs' possessions.
According to ESPN Stats & Info, these teams have split the past 10 meetings, but the Warriors have experienced more difficulties facing head coach Gregg Popovich's group than against any other team in recent years. Keep in mind Golden State played one game and lost to the Spurs with Durant in uniform:
Western Conference Finals are set.

Spurs are 5-5 vs Warriors over last 3 regular seasons (Golden State’s most losses vs any team in span). s://t.co/0GShNKScrG
As for Game 1, Golden State had ample time to prepare for either San Antonio or Houston. Furthermore, the Warriors have put on an offensive clinic through the first two rounds, scoring 106-plus points in all eight of their games.
With or without Leonard, the Spurs will turn in a performance similar to their first contest against the Rockets. Expect the Warriors to win by a double-digit margin at home.
Prediction: Warriors 108, Spurs 96

It's all about the point guards. 
This has many applications in the NBA these days. For instance, look at the points who have their names in the mix for the NBA playoffs' conference semifinals: Stephen Curry, Kyrie Irving and Isaiah Thomas or John Wall (the exception here is the San Antonio Spurs because of Gregg Popovich magic). Other playoff notables include James Harden and Russell Westbrook.
But this point guard-minded outlook also applies to the 2017 NBA draft, which kicks into high gear this week thanks to the NBA Draft Combine. Those teams unlucky enough to not have a top-tier player at the critical spot have a chance to get one of the league's best, though the rich could always get richer as well.
Below, let's look at an updated mock and highlight where some of the top points might land.
             
2017 NBA Mock Draft
           
Projections for Top Point Guards
1. Boston Celtics (via Nets): Markelle Fultz, G, Washington
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
The draft's best player isn't a household name.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
Markelle Fultz's Washington Huskies didn't exactly make waves last year, but he did at 6'4" and 195 pounds while averaging 23.2 points, 5.7 rebounds, 5.9 assists, 1.2 blocks and 1.6 steals.
Stats aren't everything—yet those numbers do some barking.
Seeing him in action is another thing entirely. He's a court general with full command of the offense, yet also an elite slasher who can score in different ways. The Ringer's Kevin O'Connor pointed out what Fultz has that many don't.
"Few teenage point guards control tempo like Fultz does. Pace is a skill that's acquired over years of experience, but it seems to come naturally to him. Fultz says he likes to model his game after Chris Paul and Russell Westbrook, though he watches every NBA point guard. He can play under control like Paul, and can turn into a fireball like Westbrook," O'Connor wrote.
In the above mock, well, the Boston Celtics simply can't resist. They already have the aforementioned Thomas, but the coaching staff will need to figure out how to get the most out of what could be an elite backcourt.
Fultz is simply too good to pass on with the top pick. Unlike other points, he doesn't have a major weakness and the right situation could lead to him becoming one of the league's best players.
        
3. Los Angeles Lakers: Lonzo Ball, G, UCLA

Expect something different here? 
This isn't just pandering to Lonzo Ball's clear desire to play for the Los Angeles Lakers or the fact his braggadocious father, LaVar, would be a perfect fit with the media in Los Angeles.
At the end of the day, Ball doesn't necessarily have a stranglehold on the top slot in the draft.
While he has incredible size at 6'6" and 190 pounds and averaged 14.6 points, 6.0 rebounds and 7.6 assists per game, he also disappeared in the Big Dance when UCLA needed him most and has a noted lack of athleticism to pair with his elite frame.
This isn't to say Ball is a bad prospect by any means. But those expecting an athletic freak of a point need to look elsewhere. What he might do better than anybody in the class is getting teammates involved through elite game sense and borderline surgical precision on passes.
A recent scouting note by ESPN.com's Chad Ford suggested this vision will outweigh any stats: "That said, the NBA folks I spoke with don't think the performance will affect his stock. He has been awesome all year and one game won't do damage to a guy that has the best court vision of any point guard prospect in a long time. He's still a likely top-three pick and some lottery teams have him ranked No. 1 on their board." 
It's hard to argue, which means the Lakers pair Ball with D'Angelo Russell and let them run wild. He'll help get Russell involved while developing alongside Brandon Ingram and Julius Randle, which is about as best-case scenario as it can get for the rebuild at this point, plus it might help draw a big-name free agent to town.
         
4. Philadelphia 76ers: Malik Monk, G, Kentucky

It doesn't get much more explosive or lethal in the 2017 class than Kentucky's Malik Monk. 
Monk, 6'3" and 185 pounds, might've had a hard time convincing NBA teams he's a true point guard even as recent as five years ago.
Score-first points aren't exactly rare anymore.
Monk dropped 19.8 points per game last year while shooting 45 percent from the floor and 39.7 percent from deep. His lack of size (also an archaic argument these days) isn't an issue, something Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman concurred with recently.
"Monk however, is 6'3", but he nonetheless further established his world-class shot-making while showing off advanced perimeter shot creativity. He's a pro at finding ways to create just enough separation, whether it's with a pump fake, screen, step-back or hang dribble to rock his man back," Wasserman wrote.
A space-creating extraordinaire, Monk will thrive in the NBA right out of the gates if he lands in the right situation.
Believe it or not, the Philadelphia 76ers seem to have it, too. With teams needing to worry about forwards such as Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons, he'll put his elite scoring range to good use and open the floor for others in the process (get it?).
              
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

Boston Celtics All-Star Isaiah Thomas is embracing the challenge of his team's upcoming Game 7 against the Washington Wizards in the Eastern Conference Semifinals.
After John Wall's three-pointer in Game 6 gave the Wizards a 92-91 victory Friday, Thomas was asked about Game 7.
"That's where legends are born," he said, per Celtics.com's Marc D'Amico.
The Celtics missed a golden opportunity to close out the series after taking an 87-82 lead with 1:34 remaining in the fourth quarter. Wall and Bradley Beal combined to score Washington's final 10 points, including Wall's three with 3.5 seconds left.
Thomas and the Celtics will have home-court advantage, which has been critical throughout this series. The home team has won each of the first six games. Boston is seeking its first appearance in the Eastern Conference Finals since 2012.
Thomas has done his part, averaging 25.1 points, 3.4 rebounds and 6.0 assists on 44.2 percent shooting this postseason. He also erupted in Game 2 versus Washington, registering 53 points on 18-of-33 shooting.
Game 7 will be Monday in the TD Garden at 8 p.m. ET.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
During the 2004 playoffs, the San Antonio Spurs were looking to stun the L.A. Lakers in the Western Conference semifinals. 
However, Derek Fisher had other plans. Watch above. 

Every draft produces winners and losers, and the 2017 NBA draft is going to be no different. Predicting the big winners, though, is far from an easy task. This is because the teams themselves don't always have a handle on which players are going to become great.
If predicting greatness was easy, the Portland Trail Blazers would have ended up with Michael Jordan.
While there probably isn't the next Jordan in this draft, there are a few prospects who appear to be of the can't-miss variety. For a team to truly come away a winner, though, they have to marry player potential with scheme-fit and the right situation.
With this in mind, let's try predicting some of the biggest winners in this year's draft. We'll also run down the current draft order and mock picks for all 30 selections.
Just to be clear, we'll be focusing on team winners here. All 30 first-round rookies will be getting a chance to live out their dreams—and that's winning in anyone's book. Since the draft lottery isn't until May 16, we'll be basing the draft order on team records.
     
2017 NBA Draft
Big Winners
Boston Celtics
The Boston Celtics find themselves in a unique position. They're good enough to be on the doorstep of the Eastern Conference Finals, yet, they're also in position to possibly hold the top pick in the draft (thanks, Brooklyn Nets!).
Led by Isaiah Thomas, Boston has a young enough roster that it can remain competitive in the East for the foreseeable future. Adding a well-rounded potential star like Washington's Markelle Fultz could be enough to transform the team into a title contender in the near future.
Fultz is a creative offensive player and a skilled defender who can help the Celtics at both ends of the court. He's the winning choice because he is a relatively subdued personality who would fit in with the Celtics' work-first mentality.
A prospect like Lonzo Ball (or his father anyway) might not fit as well in the Boston market.
The Celtics have already shown interest in Fultz—one of the few top prospects to actually attend the scouting combine—and have interviewed him, per Jonathan Givony of DraftExpress.com:
Source: The Boston Celtics front office will be interviewing projected #1 pick Markelle Fultz this evening at the NBA Combine.
Adding Fultz would potentially give Boston two legitimate stars who can help the team grow into one that can compete for a title.
     
Phoenix Suns
The Phoenix Suns had the NBA's worst defense this past season, allowing an average of 113.3 points per game. This is why—even with intriguing talents like Ball and De'Aaron Fox on the board—it makes sense for the Suns to go with Kansas product Josh Jackson.
Jackson is a quality defender who can immediately help the team turn this woeful statistic around. He's also a strong rebounder at both ends of the court. In addition, he has a high motor and can be a dangerous scorer as well.
"He's a competitor with a great motor, and the rare type of guy who can create offense out of defense." Evan Tomes of NBADraft.net wrote of Jackson. "He'll need to work on his shot to take his game to the next level, but Jackson appears to have a high floor, as well as the ceiling of an All-Star level player."
Landing Jackson would be a win for Phoenix because he can immediately improve both the offense and the defense. Of all the freshman prospects in the draft, he was Charles Barkley's favorite two-way prospect, according to 97.5 the Fanatic:
"I love Josh Jackson. He was the best 2 way freshmen in college basketball. If you need a small forward he's the guy" - Barkley on the draft
Jackson is also a good fit for the future of the Suns. Phoenix boasts a young core of players that includes guys like 20-year-old shooting guard Devin Booker and 19-year-old forward Dragan Bender. This is a group Jackson can grow and develop alongside, and all of these young players should hit their primes right around the same time.
The Suns aren't in a position to win right now, but a couple years down the road, they could be in a position to win consistently with Jackson.
      
Philadelphia 76ers
While the Suns have one of the worst defenses in the league, the Philadelphia 76ers have one of the league's most disappointing offenses. In the regular season, the team averaged just 102.4 points per game, sixth-fewest in the NBA.
The 76ers have some terrific young pieces, like centers Joel Embiid and Jahlil Okafor, and forward Ben Simmons. What the team lacks is a consistent shooter/scorer, and that's exactly what former Kentucky guard Malik Monk can be.
Monk made 45 percent of his shots from the field last season and made nearly 40 percent of his attempts from three-point range.
According to former teammate and fellow top prospect, De'Aaron Fox, Monk can be even more dangerous when he gets hot:
De’Aaron Fox on Malik Monk: “Don’t let him get hot. If he gets hot, it’s over.”
Philadelphia is another team with enough youth to grow into a long-term contender, and Monk would help to fill out the roster perfectly. If the Sixers land him, it'd be a win.

The NBA Draft Combine is occurring this week, and some players are taking advantage of the opportunity to showcase their talents and raise their stocks before the NBA draft takes place on Thursday, June 22.
Here's a look at three players who have improved their draft standings. 
    
Jordan Bell
The former Oregon forward's stock has been on a dramatic rise since the NCAA tournament. During Oregon's run to the Final Four, the junior averaged 12.6 points, 13.2 rebounds and 3.2 blocks per game. Most notably, he blocked eight shots against Kansas in the Elite Eight.
Bell has been a star this week in Chicago as well. It seems like everyone on Twitter is singing his praises.
Mike Schmitz of DraftExpress showcased Bell, who wasn't an outside shooter in college, knocking down corner three-pointers during the combine on Friday:
Jordan Bell's stroke has improved. Has some touch from the corners. s://t.co/900mS8iWL8
Chad Ford of ESPN also noted that Bell's defense, which is his calling card, is still top-notch:
Jordan Bell is EVERYWHERE on defense.
James Anderson of Rotowire also put Bell on his list of players who impressed:
Players who impressed on Day 2 of #NBACombine
Frank Mason
Isaiah Briscoe
PJ Dozier
Jaron Blossomgame
Tyler Dorsey
Damyean Dotson
Jordan Bell
Although Bell is a bit undersized for a big man at 6'8 ½" with shoes and 224 pounds, it's pretty clear to anyone who watched him this year that he plays with a level of intensity that can't be matched by the vast majority of players entering the draft.
By mid-June, expect Bell to safely be in the first round of all mock drafts and perhaps in the top 20.
    
Frank Mason
The four-year Kansas guard was one of the best players in men's Division I college basketball last year, winning the Naismith Trophy after a season in which he led Kansas to a Big 12 regular-season title and a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament. For the year, Mason averaged 20.9 points and 5.2 assists per game.
Still, Mason isn't high on NBA mock drafts right now. For example, NBADraft.net and DraftExpress have him going 53rd to the Boston Celtics.
However, Mason may be climbing up the second round in mock drafts after this week. Jeremy Woo of Sports Illustrated wrote the following:
Unsurprisingly, Mason was consistent in both of his games, showcasing his ability to change speed and direction and a strong understanding of how to use his body to create space for himself...He’s a good shooter and tough defender and really stood out among the crop of point guards in attendance.
Mason also caught the attention of Jonathan Wasserman of Bleacher Report, who noted that the point guard-needy New York Knicks could be a potential fit:
No surprise Frank Mason making plays--right in front of Knicks brass. Can't help but think Mason will (should) be a PG NY looks at. s://t.co/19wjtFmEmv
Like Bell, the knock on Mason is that he's a bit undersized, even for a point guard. Mason is 6'0" with shoes and 189 pounds. However, DraftExpress noted that Mason makes up for his size with an aggressive nature on the court:
While at 5'11”, there are some concerns surrounding Mason's lack of ideal size, there are no such questions regarding his toughness and shot making ability in clutch situations. He is a strong lead guard, with a bulldog mentality, and is fearless attacking the basket and drawing contact.
Mason should be able to find a home in an NBA team's rotation next year. He excelled in a tough Big 12 conference and was clearly one of the best players in college basketball. A playoff team in need of a jolt of energy off the bench and guard depth (perhaps the Oklahoma City Thunder) could take a chance on the KU star.
     
Derrick White
White has taken an interesting path to the NBA Draft Combine, playing at Division II University of Colorado-Colorado Springs before transferring to the University of Colorado and playing one season, averaging 18.1 points and 4.4 assists per game during the 2016-17 campaign.
Now, the 6'4 ½" guard is shining during the NBA Draft Combine, per multiple sources. Sam Vecenie of Sporting News is one of them:
Derrick White is by far the best player in this first five-on-five game. Dominating the action as a lead guard, diming and shooting.
Wasserman also noted that people are going to start taking notice of White's potential:
Expect the Derrick White bandwagon to start filling up real quick
White had a great finish to his season at Colorado, scoring 31 points against Arizona (a No. 2 seed in the NCAA tournament) and 30 versus a stout defensive team in Central Florida in the first round of the NIT.
Like Mason, he can step right into a team's rotation and add instant offense off the bench. Currently, DraftExpress has him going 31st to the Atlanta Hawks, and it wouldn't be shocking to see him sneak into the first round in June.

John Wall wasn't going to let the Washington Wizards' season end without a Game 7.
And he most certainly wasn't letting the Boston Celtics leave D.C. without implementing a dress code:
Tell 'em, John Wall! s://t.co/LPWqH8LfYz
Game 6 between the Celtics and Wizards, with the latter facing elimination, wasn't the prettiest. But it was the pettiest.
And for Washington, it'll also go down as a season-saving 92-91 victory that John Wall clinched with a deep three inside four seconds to play:
Season on the line? Ain't no thing (➡️ @SIMPLEMobile) s://t.co/pnRLulnVIB
Boston threw the first punch before tipoff, rolling into the Verizon Center in all-black attire, a ploy it hoped would spell the end of the line for Washington. It was also a not-so-subtle troll job. The Wizards sported all-black outfits prior to their Jan. 24 victory over the Celtics. 
"They want to be us so bad," Markieff Morris said, per SB Nation's Mike Prada.
Clearly, there remains no love lost between these two teams. So it's only right the Wizards forced a Game 7. It's even more fitting that they did it in such ugly fashion.
Despite entering the fourth quarter shooting 2-of-19 from three-point range, losing the transition battle 17-3 and hitting under 60 percent of their free throws, the Wizards trailed by only three. They were able to survive on a steady diet of Bradley Beal and second-chance opportunities. It helped, too, that Boston never played nearly well enough to pull away.
Though they finished a plus-18 from beyond the arc, the Celtics put down just 31.4 percent (11-of-35) of their outside looks overall. And they weren't able to match the Wizards' intensity off the bounce. Washington attempted 15 more shots than Boston inside the paint and restricted area, of which they buried 61.5 percent.
Where the Wizards' bench was bad, totaling almost as many fouls (nine) as points (13), Boston's was worse. Jaylen Brown, Kelly Olynyk, Terry Rozier and Marcus Smart combined to score five points on 2-of-15 shooting. Olynyk was the only one of the four to convert a field-goal attempt.
Depth is supposed to be one of the Celtics' crowning advantages, so they need more on offense from their supporting cast. That goes for certain starters, too. They can't have Jae Crowder blanking on uncontested looks, even when he's dishing out eight assists.
Isaiah Thomas has to work too hard for his points when Avery Bradley and Al Horford are his lone running mates getting buckets. He finished with 27—10 of which came in the final frame—but found nylon on just eight of his 24 field-goal attempts while being coaxed into an uncomfortable number of contested looks.

Thomas is now shooting 38.9 percent (23-of-59) since dropping 53 points in Game 2. The mere threat he poses on drives still forces Washington's defense into hysterics, but there are limits to what he can do. Boston, as an aggregate, isn't consistently capitalizing on collapses. 
With the Celtics struggling on so many fronts, the Wizards spent most of the first half in control. When they did fall behind, they were able to hang around. Wall rebounded from a 1-of-9 showing in the first half to drop 23 points on 8-of-16 shooting through the final two frames, and Beal caught fire during the fourth quarter, pumping in 13 of his career-postseason-high 33 points.
And yet, it's hard to get too excited for the Wizards. Yes, they were the first home team this year to hold serve in an elimination game. But they could just as easily be prepping for vacation. 
Beal and Wall carried the offense almost entirely on their own. They scored or assisted on all 26 of Washington's fourth-quarter points, according to ESPN Stats and Info (via ESPN.com's Ohm Youngmisuk). Most of the help they received down the stretch came from Marcin Gortat, and his commitment to dirty work:
Marcin Gortat screening the help defender. It's a beautiful art if you look closely
Neither Boston nor Washington, as such, appears to have a decided ege. Home teams are undefeated in this series, which would seem to favor the Celtics. But, as SI.com's Rob Mahoney pointed out, this matchup is too brutal to call:
Celtics-Wizards, while competitive, is a buffet of awful misses. Endless variety, all you can stomach.
The average margin of victory through the first five contests was 18 points. Even Game 2 was anticlimatic. The Celtics erased a 14-point deficit to force overtime, but they ultimately ran away with a victory.
Game 6 was unchartered territory in that no team kept its foot on the gas long enough to sway momentum. It was ugly—at times unwatchable—but it was competitive. 
And Washington can only hope this unsightliness carries into Game 7.
The Wizards are used to winning like this. They always lean on their stars, without the promise of anything from anyone else. As far as they're concerned, Game 6 was more of the same.
Their bench wrapped the regular season with a bottom-eight net rating—and that was with a quasi-resurgence later in the schedule. Things haven't changed in the playoffs. The second unit has the third-worst net rating overall, and the absolute lowest among teams that made it out of the first round. 

Against the Atlanta Hawks, in the first round, the Wizards were able to play fast and furious. But the offense still stalled for protracted periods. They placed 14th in points scored per 100 possessions prior to their Game 6 detonation.
Morris has been hot and cold since the start of the playoffs. The Wizards are no stranger to Otto Porter's offensive vanishing acts, or even to Beal's own dry spells.
They haven't just been here before, winning within a less-than-ideal blueprint; this is essentially the only way they've won at all.
So yes, it's fitting this contentious series, baffling as it has often been, gets a Game 7.
And if Monday's winner-take-all tilt once again boils down to which squad can do more with less, we might as well fit the Wizards for their first conference finals bid since 1979.
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com.
When you force a Game 7, you slap @stephenasmith on the ass. s://t.co/kbDYlUhF3k
Well, that's one way to celebrate forcing a Game 7. 
After the Washington Wizards beat out the Boston Celtics in the last seconds of the fourth quarter of their Game 6 showdown, Washington players were understandably in a jovial mood. 
Forward Markieff Morris was so overwhelmed with the game-winning spirit that he pulled ESPN reporter Stephen A. Smith in on the action. 
While high-fiving fans as he left the arena, Morris spotted Smith stoically chilling out in the tunnel and gave him a quick celebratory slap on the ass as he passed by, surprising him. 
Maybe that was enough to jolt Smith into the Wizards' win spirit. 

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
John Wall made securing the win against the Boston Celtics look simple on Friday night. 
With the Washington Wizards trailing Boston 89-91 with just four seconds left in the fourth quarter, Wall accepted the pass from forward Otto Porter outside the arc. 
With just moments left on the clock, Wall easily found an opening for a successful three-pointer, forcing a Game 7 showdown between the two teams.

Washington Wizards point guard John Wall didn't mince words about his feelings toward the Boston Celtics and their decision to wear all black to Game 6 of the Eastern Conference semifinals on Friday night. 
After Wall knocked down a game-winning three with 3.5 seconds to go and helped the Wizards force a Game 7, he told ESPN's Lisa Salters he wasn't a fan of the Celtics going with a funeral theme in the nation's capital. 
"Don't come to my city, wearing all black, talking about a funeral," he said, per the Washington Post's Tim Bontemps. 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Comcast Sportsnet's Nathan Long documented the Celtics' arrival at Verizon Center in advance of Game 6, which featured Isaiah Thomas and Avery Bradley, among others, adhering to the dress code: 
Celtics arrive in all black tonight. Not a coincidence. Coverage on @CSNNE starts at 6:00 #celticstalk s://t.co/bRT1Zwyvi3
That decision on Boston's part came after the Wizards showed up to a January clash against the Celtics clad in all black following some contentious regular-season battles. 
"That's cute that they're wearing all black. It's definitely not a Game 7. It's not the playoffs," Thomas said at the time, according to CSN Mid Atlantic's Chase Hughes. "I saw the funeral and all black thing last night and I just laughed about it."
Following Friday's win, Morris accused the Celtics of stealing the Wizards' idea out of jealousy, according to The Vertical's Michael Lee: 
Markieff Morris said John Wall's game-winning 3 was "the biggest shot of my career." Said BOS wore black "because they wanna be like us."
"It was just funny to me," Wall added, doubling down on Morris' sentiment, per Ben Golliver of Sports Illustrated. "It was kind of copycatting what we did."
Tempers should continue to flare with a spot in the Eastern Conference Finals up for grabs Monday evening at 8 p.m. ET on TNT. 

There was nothing aesthetically pleasing about it, but the Washington Wizards managed to force a Game 7 against the Boston Celtics thanks to a 92-91 win at the Verizon Center on Friday night.          
Although Isaiah Thomas and Avery Bradley did all they could to keep the Celtics afloat, John Wall and Bradley Beal broke out of early funks and kept the Wizards' Eastern Conference Finals hopes alive as they matched the Celtics star duo shot-for-shot down the stretch. 
And after Al Horford nailed a go-ahead bank shot with 7.9 seconds remaining, Wall saved his team's season when he stepped up and knocked down a long-range triple to give the Wizards the lead for good with 3.9 seconds on the clock: 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
The Vertical's Michael Lee noted Wall got the last laugh after the Celtics came to Game 6 dressed in all black for a so-called funeral: 
Celtics wore all black. John Wall buried 'em
In fact, Wall acknowledged the Celtics' bold choice during his postgame interview with ESPN's Lisa Salters (via the Washington Post's Tim Bontemps): 
John Wall: "Don't come to my city, wearing all black, talking about a funeral."
Washington's hero finished with 26 points and a team-high eight assists, while Beal came up big to the tune of a game-high 33 points on 15-of-26 shooting (1-of-8 from three). 
The story, though, was the lethargy that plagued both offenses in a game that was devoid of rhythm and constant end-to-end action, as CBS Sports NBA, Vice Sports' Michael Pina and Sports Illustrated's Rob Mahoney pointed out: 
turns out the funeral the Celtics wore all black for was for both teams offenses
This game is straight out of 1994
Celtics-Wizards, while competitive, is a buffet of awful misses. Endless variety, all you can stomach.
Despite taking home the win, the Wizards shot 43.0 percent from the field and a paltry 5-of-24 from three as they struggled to find a comfortable flow because of repeated attempts that clanged off iron, according to FiveThirtyEight's Chris Herring: 
Every single Wizards player is missing shots by several feet at a time.
The Celtics—who shot 40.5 percent from the field and 31.4 percent from three—were led by 27 points apiece from Thomas and Bradley. 
And before Wall sent the Wizards home with a win, Thomas looked like he would be the one playing hero when he scored five straight points to give the Celtics an 87-82 lead with 1:34 remaining in the fourth quarter: 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Thomas' last-gasp attempt at the final buzzer came up short, however, and the Celtics are forced to head back to TD Garden as they attempt to book a trip to their first Eastern Conference Finals since 2012. 
Game 7 will tip off Monday at 8 p.m. ET on TNT. 
A photo posted by Golden State Warriors (@warriors)
Draymond Green and Kevin Durant now have a piece of art to forever remind them of their meme-able pep-talk.  
The GIF-worthy moment took place during Game 1 of the Golden State Warriors vs. Portland Trail Blazers playoff series. 
Green appeared to give Durant some super-passionate motivation, to which Durant nodded. Whatever he said obviously worked wonders, because the Warriors beat the Blazers 121-109 that night. 
The image of Green hyping up Durant mid-game took off online with a slew of hilarious memes floating around social media. 
The two Warriors were presented with an artist's rendering of that fateful conversation by NikeBasketball.  
We wonder whose home that will hang in...

The televised portion of the 2017 NBA Draft Combine reached its conclusion Friday with another day of athletic testing and on-court work. The event will continue through Sunday ahead of the draft lottery, which is scheduled for Tuesday night.
Most of the class' top prospects opted against participating in the combine. Golden State Warriors superstar forward Kevin Durant agreed with their decision, saying he was laughed at for a lack of strength and would skip the event if he could go back in time, per ESPN's Chris Haynes.
Let's check out all of the testing results from the nearly 70 players who did show up in Chicago. That's followed by a recap of some notable storylines from Friday's action.
Final Combine Numbers
Anthro Measurements
Strength and Agility
Friday Recap
Frank Mason III continued to show he possesses first-round talent, but the question is whether his size will prevent him from rising up draft boards over the next month. The Kansas product did everything in his power to show he can be an asset, even without prototypical size.
Mike Schmitz of Draft Express noted the point guard did all the little things right:
Frank Mason has had a really nice camp. Playing the right way, putting pressure on the rim with low to the ground explosiveness, defending.
Mason averaged 20.9 points, 5.2 assists and 4.2 rebounds while shooting 49 percent from the field, including 47.1 percent from beyond the arc in his final season with the Jayhawks. If he does fall into the second round, he has the look of a steal.
Jonathan Jeanne is another player who potentially made a move over the past few days. The 19-year-old Frenchman is still raw from a technical standpoint and his frame must fill out in order to survive the rigors of an NBA season, but the talent and athleticism is there.
Draft Express' Jonathan Givony is growing more bullish on the post prospect:
Strong NBA Combine showing from Jonathan Jeanne. Body still far away but tough to find his combination of length, mobility, skill and upside s://t.co/5BLPQhvIAS
Meanwhile, South Carolina's PJ Dozier continues to show aggressiveness and explosiveness attacking the basket, which should translate well to the next level. If he can improve his three-point shooting, he can become something special. He shot 29.8 percent from long range with the Gamecocks last season.
The NBA Draft noted the shooting guard provided one of the top highlights on Day 2:
WATCH as @TDORSEY_1 lobs it up to @Dozier_Kid for the tomahawk SLAM! 

#NBACombine s://t.co/SxXde8Auz4
Sindarius Thornwell, Dozier's college teammate, doesn't feature his fellow guard's jump-out-the-gym athleticism, but he's a more well-rounded player right now. His results and performance at the combine may help him solidify his first-round status, though.
John Del Bianco of 247Sports passed along comments the reigning SEC Player of the Year made at the combine about his mindset.
"I tell them I'm not a lottery pick, but I feel like I'm a lottery player," Thornwell said. "I'm a glue guy, feel like I can come in and produce on both ends of the court, most importantly the defensive end. I know teams are always looks for guys to play defense and guard. I feel like I'm that type of guy. ... I feel I'm one of the best defenders in the draft. My numbers prove it."
Finally, James Anderson of Rotowire provided his list of the top performers on Day 2:
Players who impressed on Day 2 of #NBACombine
Frank Mason
Isaiah Briscoe
PJ Dozier
Jaron Blossomgame
Tyler Dorsey
Damyean Dotson
Jordan Bell
Cole Zwicker of NetScouts based his analysis on the five-on-five work:
Guys who helped themselves at the combine (5 on 5s): Bell, White, Alkins, Kuzma, Both Jacksons, Probably Meeks.
Ultimately, in recent years the combine has started to morph into an event where prospects from mostly outside the lottery can come to help make their case rather than a showcase of the top players in the class. That's exactly what happened this year, and players like Mason and Dozier took advantage.
Klay claps back s://t.co/Xx8ECpz4y5
Klay Thomspon made sure to get the last word on his scoring "feud" with ZaZa Pachulia.
After the Golden State Warriors' Game 3 victory over the Utah Jazz last Saturday, Pachulia made a point to make sure everyone knew he had outscored one of the famed Splash Brothers.
He even got Thompson to pose for a pic to immortalize the night:
A photo posted by Zaza Pachulia (@zazapachulia)
Pachulia also presented Thompson with a gift to ensure he never forgets the achievement, per the San Francisco Chronicle's Connor Letourneau:
Zaza Pachulia handed Klay Thompson a framed SF Chronicle at practice today. s://t.co/5gXNVaCVYO
Now, Thompson is making it known that even though Pachulia may have outscored him—once—he still can't out-fish him.
Thompson shared a photo of himself and Pachulia on a fishing boat with a high contrast in their apparent catches of the day.
Of course, Pachulia says the whole thing has been photoshopped.

Cleveland Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving believes LaVar Ball, the outspoken father of top 2017 NBA draft prospect Lonzo Ball, eventually needs to take a step back to let his son chart his own path.          
On Friday, Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com passed along comments Irving made to Cavs teammates Richard Jefferson and Channing Frye on their Uninterrupted Road Trippin' podcast about the issue.
"I'm sorry, LaVar, you're not going to be in every hotel room that Lonzo is going to be in," he said. "You're not going to be everywhere and part of his life as he continues to grow up. You got to let go. He's 19 years old. Don't get me wrong—I don't want it to bypass him being a father, but he's got to let Lonzo be Lonzo for the long haul."
Irving added all of the top point guards in the NBA are already "going to go at [Lonzo]" because he's a rookie. And his dad's constant over-the-top comments won't help.
"Then you start adding, I mean, we've seen it. We've seen people be implemented into the spotlight, and it just draws an even bigger target on them," Irving said. "We've seen it."
The elder Ball has made numerous outlandish comments in recent months, which has made him a more popular headline figure leading up to the draft than any of this year's prospects.
They have ranged from Lonzo's already being better than Golden State Warriors superstar Stephen Curry—a two-time NBA Most Valuable Player—to his own ability to beat Michael Jordan, one of the greatest players in history, in a game of one-on-one, per USA Today's Josh Peter.
The key question is whether his father's actions will have any impact when teams start to place Lonzo, a projected top-three selection, on their final draft boards.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
One NBA general manager told Sean Deveney of Sporting News in March that it's something franchises must consider.
"It doesn't help, all this stuff with his father," the GM said. "I don't know what is gained for the kid by putting that much pressure on him. Nobody from the league has been meeting with [Lonzo] or anything, but that is going to be another thing to look at when it comes to due diligence before the draft. How does he handle his dad—is it just something he laughs about, or is it real pressure on him?"
ESPN's Jeff Goodman noted Los Angeles Lakers president Magic Johnson downplayed the role it will play in final evaluations, however.
"No effect at all," he said. "I think what you're drafting is the son and not the father. I think that you also are gauging and evaluating his son on his ability and what he can do not only on the basketball court but also what he can do for your team. How he can enhance and make your team better."
One way or another, Lonzo Ball should hear his name called early on draft night June 22. It will be interesting to see whether his dad's involvement changes as the UCLA product's pro career gets underway.

Golden State Warriors acting head coach Mike Brown joked he could "beat up" San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich ahead of the teams' meeting in the Western Conference finals. 
Carl Steward of the Mercury News passed along comments from Brown, who continues to lead the championship contenders while Steve Kerr recovers from back problems.
"I think if I was an official I'd be intimidated," Brown said. "But nah, I think could beat Pop up. He's like 70."
On a more serious note, the former Cleveland Cavaliers and Los Angeles Lakers coach admitted he was impressed with the Spurs road victory over the Houston Rockets on Thursday night. San Antonio won Game 6 by 39 points without Kawhi Leonard or Tony Parker to advance.
"They didn't miss a beat," Brown said. "Obviously, he's their best player and an MVP (candidate) in the NBA. Sometimes when you're missing your quote-unquote best player, I don't know if 'fear' is the right word, but you can see a little bit of uncertainness."
Star forward Kevin Durant added: "I wasn't surprised, because they're a machine. They just keep doing it, no matter who's out on the court, running that system. Somebody goes down, somebody steps in," according to the Mercury News.
ESPN's Michael C. Wright reported Leonard is expected to recover from an ankle injury in time to play Game 1 against the Warriors on Sunday. The Spurs will be forced to march on without Parker, however, who's out for the rest of the playoff run with a ruptured tendon.
That's forced the Spurs to lean more on the likes of Game 5 hero Manu Ginobili as well as Jonathon Simmons and Dejounte Murray to fill the backcourt void.
While they were good enough to overcome the Rockets, facing a star-studded Golden State squad is a completely different challenge. FiveThirtyEight lists the Warriors as 87 percent favorites to beat San Antonio and earn their third straight NBA Finals trip.
The biggest edge the Spurs hold probably comes on the sideline, especially if Kerr isn't able to return for the duration of the series. Popovich led his squad to a four-game sweep of Brown's Cavs in the 2007 Finals, and it's going to take some coaching genius to overcome the Dubs' talent advantage.

Phil Jackson reiterated Friday that the New York Knicks would like to find a trade destination for Carmelo Anthony this offseason. 
"He has a no-trade contract," Jackson said at the NBA's predraft combine in Chicago, per ESPN.com's Nick Friedell. "I think I expressed what I felt. I can't express it any better. I thought it was well-said, even though a lot of you didn't feel quite that way. But we'd like him to have success, the opportunity is narrowing. We'd just like him to have success somewhere. We're not going to be there. Hopefully we'll be maybe a playoff team next year. It would be tough to consider us a possible champion."
That's effectively the same thing Jackson told reporters during his season-ending press conference. 
"I think the direction with our team is that he would be better off somewhere else," Jackson said on April 14, according to the New York Times' Mike Vorkunov. 
But as Jackson noted again Friday, Anthony would have to waive his no-trade clause before a swap could be completed. 
However, ESPN.com's Ian Begley reported in April that Anthony "is leaning strongly toward waiving the no-trade clause" following a turmoil-filled 2016-17 season with the Knicks. 
It's unclear who Anthony's suitors would be, but a team that's interested will have to be willing to eat at least one year of his hefty contract. 
Anthony is scheduled to earn $26.2 million next season before he decides whether to exercise his $27.9 million early termination option in advance of the 2018-19 campaign.

New York Knicks president of basketball operations Phil Jackson on Friday declined to discuss why Kristaps Porzingis skipped his exit interview with front office personnel last month, according to The Athletic's Sean Highkin. 
Jackson and Knicks brass are in Chicago this week for the NBA's annual predraft combine at Quest Multisport. 
Although Porzingis was reportedly frustrated with the way the Knicks' season unfolded, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, head coach Jeff Hornacek told reporters Thursday that the team has no plans to trade its rising star. 
"There's no doubt in my mind he'll be on the roster," he said at the combine, according to Newsday's Al Iannazzone.  
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Frank Ntilikina NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Knicks Rookie
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
But unlike Jackson, Hornacek was willing to discuss Porzingis' absence from the mid-April meeting. 
"He decided not to come to the meeting," Hornacek said, per Iannazzone. "It would've been a great opportunity to talk about what he sees, but we figure it's a long summer. We'll end up talking to him, and all that stuff coming into next year will be fine."
On Wednesday, Porzingis' brother, Janis, told ESPN.com's Ian Begley Kristaps wants to stay with the Knicks after teams reportedly called them regarding the big man's availability. 
"Kris wants to stay in New York; he feels at home there," Janis said. "There is no question about it. The only thing he wants is for the Knicks to create an environment where he can develop and grow as a player and win."       

Somewhere in between herculean and impossible lies the task awaiting the San Antonio Spurs.
The Golden State Warriors—San Antonio's dancing partner in the 2017 NBA Western Conference Finals—are hard to handle at full strength, going 8-0 this postseason and 23-1 since mid-March.
The Spurs are not at full strength. Starting point guard Tony Parker didn't make it out of the conference semifinals versus the Houston Rockets, suffering a playoff-ending ruptured left quadriceps tendon. All-Star leader Kawhi Leonard missed their second-round clincher with a sprained ankle.
Lloyd Christmas doesn't like San Antonio's on-paper chances. But writing off head coach Gregg Popovich and the Alamo City's finest never seems a sound strategy no matter how insurmountable the odds appear.
What would need to happen for the Spurs to pull off a shocking upset? Great question, which we'll examine in detail here. Catastrophic injuries could obviously shift the balance, but we're focused on the strategic choices and heroic performances that must take place for San Antonio to find a way through this colossal challenge starting Sunday at Oracle Arena.    

Golden State's second team isn't the stripped-down unit it's often made out to be. Just ask the Portland Trail Blazers.
During their first-round matchup, the Blazers saw Ian Clark erupt for 12 points in 12 minutes of the opener. The next time out, JaVale McGee exploded for 15 points and four blocks in only 13 minutes. For the series clincher, David West crammed 12 points, four assists and two steals into 16 minutes of action.
More unexpected outbursts are likely on the way. The Spurs must process those surprises correctly.
There's a reason guys like Clark, McGee, West and Shaun Livingston don't make the front page of opponents' scouting reports. They might sizzle in a six-minute stretch here or change the balance of a quarter there, but they won't have the consistent production—or even enough of an opportunity—to have a significant say in the series outcome.
As long as they aren't neglected, they're getting enough attention. Anything more, and San Antonio risks being burned by one of Golden State's actual studs.

On the surface, McGee's career renaissance with Golden State makes zero sense. Here's a training camp invite with arguably the best blooper reel in the business becoming an indispensable piece of the league's top team.
But it's not as mind-bending as it seems.
McGee is mostly the same player he's always been, an exuberant 7-footer with impossible athleticism. The difference is his role is so simplified—essentially run, jump, repeat—that all the potential for him to overstep his bounds is gone. Add in the supreme talent and heightened hoops IQs around him, and you have a seemingly unstoppable weapon in short bursts.
McGee has been a wrecking ball this postseason, shooting a ridiculous 73 percent while averaging 23.3 points, 11.5 rebounds and 4.4 blocks per 36 minutes. And the Dubs have gone demolition mode whenever he's played, bashing opponents by 37.3 points per 100 possessions.
Containing McGee means depriving Golden State of its in-game energizer. Coach Popovich should be able to game-plan for a lob specialist. If San Antonio barricades McGee's runway for alley-oops and offensive rebounds, it could ground his impact quickly.
"If you were ever worried about JaVale McGee being exploited, you should be now with Gregg Popovich on the other sidelines," the Bay Area News Group's Marcus Thompson II wrote.

Among the many coaching gifts in Popovich's possession, his ability to maximize the entire roster might be the most impressive. Who else can win a road elimination game—by 39 points no less—without Leonard and Parker?
"It's fitting the Spurs humiliated Houston, in Houston, with Dejounte Murray, Jonathon Simmons and [Kyle] Anderson getting huge minutes...," ESPN.com's Zach Lowe wrote. "... All three guys played significant minutes in the regular season, even while spending chunks of it outside Popovich's rotation."
While some coaches agonize over role players' weaknesses, Popovich zeroes in on the strengths, which allows the Spurs to enter the playoffs with a roster full of confident and capable bodies.
That's invaluable for a time like this, when Parker is already shelved for the playoffs and Leonard's ankle bothered him enough to keep him out of Game 6 on Thursday. The Spurs are forced to go deep into their supporting cast anyway, and Pop's proactive approach has the understudies ready.
He can flip his rotation fast, which this series might demand. The length of Murray and Anderson could be potent defensive weapons on the perimeter. Simmons and Dewayne Dedmon can cause similar defensive havoc with their athleticism. Davis Bertans might need minutes in a shootout, while David Lee could be the better choice at a slower pace.
In short, the Spurs need everyone and everything they can give.

Golden State's rapid strikes can make San Antonio look old and slow in an instant. If this series gets out of hand, don't be shocked if Warriors frontcourt players literally run circles around their counterparts.
The Spurs have to play as much of this round at their speed as possible. They have flashes of giddy-up every now and then, but their best work occurs at a deliberate, methodical pace. They've played this postseason at the fourth-slowest rate, while the Warriors have sprinted to the third-fastest. During the regular season, the gap was even wider, with Golden State fourth and San Antonio 27th.
This is all about maximizing each possession and limiting easy runouts. Against Golden State, hurried trips that yield long rebounds or giveaways are almost automatically buckets the other way. The Warriors lead all postseason participants with 19.3 fast-break points per game, which is actually down from their league-leading mark of 22.6 during the regular season.
The Spurs must find the best possible shot, even if that means working through second, third and fourth actions. They have finished 24.6 percent of their playoff possessions in the final seven seconds of the shot clock, over twice as many as the Warriors (11.1 percent).
In the first two rounds, San Antonio went 7-0 when holding teams below 105 points and just 1-4 when it didn't. Golden State has scored fewer than 105 points once this postseason.           

There isn't a lot of useful information to extract from the teams' three regular-season matchups. One took place more than six months ago, and the others featured notable absences for rest and injuries.
But the Spurs' blueprint to survive this series closely resembles their strategy from that opening-night 29-point bludgeoning. Namely, they slaughtered the smaller superteam on the glass with a 55-35 rebounding advantage and nearly as many offensive boards (21) as the Dubs had defensively (27).
"If you don't close out the possession, the first stop is pointless," Draymond Green told reporters after the contest. "And that also stopped our fast break, which is the way we want to play."
Dominating the interior battle simultaneously plays up San Antonio's strength and limits Golden State's use of its own.
The Spurs have been the second-best offensive rebounding team of the playoffs (28.4 percent) and fourth-best in second-chance points (14.1). In the regular season, the Warriors had the second-worst defensive rebounding percentage (74.9) and surrendered the third-most second-chance points (14.0).
San Antonio's bigs will be at such an athletic disadvantage that Popovich might have to limit his two-big lineups. Still, whoever is on the floor must make his size matter. Doing so would mean more boards, more offensive opportunities and fewer transition chances for Golden State.

Game 6 of the Western Conference Semifinals gave the Alamo City a welcome reminder: This LaMarcus Aldridge guy can play.
That fans needed any prompting speaks to the inconsistency he's encountered with the Spurs. The five-time All-Star has had more sub-40 percent shooting performances this playoffs (four) than 20-plus point outings (three).
Still, he's capable of producing monster stat lines like his 34-point, 12-rebound gem in the second-round clincher. The Warriors have seen it up close. He burned them for 26 points and 14 boards on opening night and then had 17 points and five blocks the next time he played them. Last year, he twice torched them for at least 24 points and 10 rebounds.
But flashes of elite play aren't good enough.
As SB Nation's Tim Cato wrote, the Spurs desperately need Aldridge's star to shine: "This is where Aldridge will be pushed to his absolute limits. If he's a power forward, he'll have to run around with Draymond Green or Kevin Durant. If he shifts to center for most of the series, as he probably should, there's still going to be a lot of responsibility for him to play the perimeter as Golden State constantly runs pick-and-rolls with his man.
"It's not an ideal matchup for him, but San Antonio doesn't have a chance without him playing ball something like he did in Game 6."
The Spurs must ensure Aldridge has enough touches to make a similar impact. Because if he's good enough to collapse Golden State's defense, life at the offensive end grows infinitely easier for San Antonio's others.

Watch the Warriors on the right night, and you can convince yourself Stephen Curry is no longer their most important player.
What would give you that impression? Maybe it's Kevin Durant doing four-time scoring champion things. Or Draymond Green messing around and getting a triple-double while locking down all five positions on defense. Or Klay Thompson igniting amid a 37-point quarter or a 60-point outing.
But all you need to know is head coach Steve Kerr's thought on Curry.
"When he's aggressive, we go," Kerr told reporters in January.
Golden State's net efficiency has gone from historically great (plus-25.1) to almost Sacramento Kings bad (minus-4.3) when he's left the floor this postseason. For context, Green has the next lowest off-court net rating at plus-5.8. In the regular season, the Warriors were 16.2 points worse per 100 possessions without Curry. Counting the playoffs, they are 20-2 this year when he has at least 30 points.
Stopping the Warriors starts with containing Curry, something the Spurs struggled to do this season (averaged 27.5 points and 7.5 assists against them). His in-the-gym range is the ultimate space-creator, and he'll leverage his gravity to find open chances for his teammates. Crowding him on the perimeter is risky, but giving him breathing room can be a death sentence.
There is no right answer for the man who defies conventional defensive wisdom. The best the Spurs can do is hope a combination of Simmons, Danny Green, Patty Mills and—in a pinch—Leonard at least makes Curry work.

Most Warriors opponents hit the hardwood resigned to the fact they'll have no better than the third-best player on the floor. But the Spurs can reasonably like their chances of having the best player in this series, provided Leonard's ankle doesn't hold him back.
He's a buzzsaw the likes of which Golden State hasn't encountered since LeBron James went basketball cyborg on them in last year's NBA Finals. In fact, Leonard and James are the only postseason contestants averaging at least 27 points on 50 percent shooting, seven rebounds and four assists.
Leonard is also the two-time reigning Defensive Player of the Year and the 2014 Finals MVP.
"Kawhi Leonard is, in my opinion, the best player in the league right now," Popovich said, per CBS Sports' James Herbert. "He's the best two-way player."
In case you're thinking Popovich is too close to Leonard to be impartial, Kerr called him the best two-way player last year, per CSN Bay Area's Monte Poole.
But San Antonio's survival depends on Leonard having the series of his life. At the least, he'll be carrying the scorching torch and neutralizing whichever Warriors scorer ignites. He also needs to challenge for the rebound lead—especially if the Spurs go small—and pick up the playmaking slack in Parker's absence. Leonard doesn't have the same caliber of weapons on his side, so he must use his abilities to increase theirs.
It took an unprecedented performance from James to slay the Durant-less Warriors in 2016. Leonard, with less help and more star power on the other side, must dominate every facet of the game.
                            
Statistics accurate through Thursday and used courtesy of NBA.com and Basketball Reference.
Zach Buckley covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @ZachBuckleyNBA.

New Orleans Pelicans big man Donatas Motiejunas is reportedly nearing a settlement with the Houston Rockets and the NBA following a contractual dispute with his former employer. 
According to Sporting News' Sean Deveney, Motiejunas is "in the midst of an arbitration action against the Rockets and the NBA that is close to wrapping up" after the 26-year-old engaged in a drawn-out process in restricted free agency that resulted in his losing millions of dollars. 
A restricted free agent last summer, Motiejunas lingered on the open market until December—when the Brooklyn Nets signed him to a four-year, $37 million offer sheet. 
The Rockets proceeded to match that offer, but there was a catch. According to Deveney, "Houston stripped out some of the Nets' incentive bonuses, making the contract worth $31 million, and the dispute grew from there."
Motiejunas eventually reported to Houston for a physical examination after the two sides worked through some issues and found financial middle ground, but the Rockets later renounced his rights and made him an unrestricted free agent. 
Motiejunas then inked a one-year deal with the New Orleans Pelicans in January, but the contract was worth the veteran's minimum. 
The 2011 first-round pick is scheduled to become an unrestricted free agent again July 1 after he averaged 4.4 points and 3.0 rebounds in 34 games last season. 

Fact: The San Antonio Spurs beat the Houston Rockets 114-75 on Thursday night, advancing to the Western Conference Finals. Gregg Popovich is now 5-0 when coaching against Mike D'Antoni in a playoff series. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights 

OAKLAND, Calif. — Unsure of both who his team will face next and how long he'll remain the Golden State Warriors' acting head coach, Mike Brown spoke with certitude about a number of topics for nearly 16 minutes Wednesday—the longest media availability anyone could remember he or Steve Kerr, his hospitalized boss, giving the local press corps this season.
Just a few feet off the team's practice court, where Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant went around the arc with alternating shots, Brown held court on no shortage of subjects, from the maturation of LeBron James (whom he coached to the 2007 NBA Finals) to Draymond Green's rapport with referees to the self-sustaining momentum that winning alone can sometimes facilitate.
And, of course, Brown made sure to come back time and again to Kerr, whom he credits at every chance afforded to him. "I still have a role to do, and Steve's the head coach," Brown said when asked about any conflict in the duality of his current situation, "so I'm going to keep doing it and that's not going to change for me."

Kerr hired Brown last summer to be his lineups guru, the person in charge of mixing and matching rotations and minutes so the team would operate at peak efficiency. But Brown's arrival in Oakland also served as a hedge against any possible repeat of last season, when Kerr missed the first 43 games due to complications from his offseason back surgery debacle that caused a fluid leak in his spine.
Assistant coach Luke Walton (with all of one year of professional coaching to his name) stepped in, went 39-4 in Kerr's stead and the Warriors largely recovered to win a record 73 games and advance to the playoffs' farthest possible endpoint.
But this scenario, with Kerr once again on the mend, is different. Even with Walton in the first chair, Kerr was a constant and familiar face around the team practice facility and inside Oracle Arena on game nights, when he would watch games (alongside general manager Bob Myers) in a room just a few dozen feet off the court. There was pregame assistance, even the occasional halftime consult.
Now Kerr's countenance is nowhere to be found. His last appearance was a media availability in Portland before Game 3 of the Warriors' first-round series; the team has been left in Brown's hands since.
Kerr has checked in on occasion with texts and calls. Green talked to him in between Games 3 and 4 of the Utah series and said Kerr sounded "upbeat, though obviously pissed off he's not here."

And after the Game 4 clincher in Salt Lake City, Brown said Kerr's support through this situation has been unwavering. "He always ends every conversation with, ‘Mike, you’re there, and I’m not there. You’ve got to make decisions about which direction you want to go with the team,’” he said. “I couldn’t ask for anything better, because he’s a great sounding board.” 
But he's now recovering from a procedure done at Duke Medical Center last week to—hopefully once and for all—fix the leak that has caused his chronic and unyielding pain.
That development, awkwardly disclosed by team owner Joe Lacob in a radio interview with Bloomberg News, is important for a couple of reasons. 
First is that Kerr has, especially in recent months, become an outspoken critic of back surgery in general. He's voiced his insistence that no one, regardless of circumstances, should ever go under the knife to fix a back injury. "It should be the last resort," Kerr said on Bill Simmons' podcast earlier this season. "You got to rely on Mother Nature and just rehab." That Kerr felt this procedure necessary means there really were no other feasible options for relieving the pain that has haunted him for 20 months.
Second is that there's now no reasonable assumption that Kerr will return to coach in these playoffs. Sure, anything is possible, but this has been a quality-of-life issue for Kerr for a long time now. This goes beyond basketball, especially for someone who is only 51 and could reasonably hope to coach another two decades or so should his body cooperate.

Basketball has dictated Kerr's path from an early age, but he has the chance now to finally get healthy again and live many more years free of pain. He owes it to himself to try.
But in basketball terms, it means that should this squad get through the conference finals for a chance to avenge last June's collapse against the Cleveland Cavaliers, it will almost certainly be coached by Brown, a newcomer to Golden State but a man with years of bench experience to lean on as the games get tougher.
That could be critical when you consider that the Warriors are still a relatively new phenomenon in today's NBA. This is their third straight conference finals appearance, yet that has come after a 39-year absence. And while this is Golden State's fifth consecutive time in the playoffs, that streak was preceded by an era in which it missed the postseason in 17 out of 18 years, the second-worst stretch of futility in league history.
In essence, the Warriors are still learning to be comfortable with the kind of ruthless tenacity that the Michael Jordan-era Bulls came to exemplify. With Chicago, every late-stage postseason series (including several featuring Kerr) felt like a fait accompli. 
For as much as critics are quick to cite "Warriors fatigue," this organization is still in its infancy as a powerhouse.
Remember, these Warriors were proven vulnerable last June, so they will need every bit of savvy and know-how they can muster to once again reach the top.

Enter Brown, who has already had a tangible effect on how the Warriors win. There aren't many nits to pick when you're posting the No. 2 offense and No. 1 defense in the playoffs thus far, with an astronomical 17.4 net rating to boot. But it's a slightly different version of Golden State basketball we're seeing now, like a director's cut with a few extra scenes seamlessly spliced in. (After all, Brown did work his way up as a video assistant who could work multiple VHS decks with finesse.)
Overall, the offense is humming along under Brown at a higher efficiency rating (115.5 to 113.2) than in the regular season. The Warriors' efficiency in both the transition game (1.21 points per possession to 1.07 in the playoffs) and on isos (0.94 to 0.8) has decreased by significant margins, but their pick-and-roll scoring, from either the ball-handler or roll man, has been a revelation.
Let's look at the Warriors' points per possession on pick-and-rolls, as well as their Effective Field Goal percentage, which accounts for threes being worth one more than two-point shots:
It's a staggering difference, which is likely also reflected in the uptick seen in the Warriors' success rate on pull-up threes. Golden State shot 32.7 percent in the regular season; in the six games with Brown at the helm, they're making 39.6 percent. The biggest contributors? Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson, who've made 18 of 41 (44 percent) such shots over the past six games after shooting just 35.2 percent in the regular season.
What's perhaps truly remarkable is that even with Green making 17-of-33 catch-and-shoot threes (51.5 percent) since Brown took over, the Warriors' overall percentage on such shots (37.5 percent) has actually dipped as compared to the regular season (40.6 percent).
It all adds up to more freelancing and pick-and-roll wizardry, less of the meticulous, timing-contingent motion offense Kerr installed back in training camp of 2014. Maybe it looked simple, but the Warriors have quietly adapted under Brown's leadership and remade themselves on the fly.

In other words, the Warriors team that may reach its third straight NBA Finals will be a different machine than even the one that won 67 games this past regular season. We can see where the Warriors' play has differed, even if slightly, from how it was under Kerr.
This is nothing new for the Warriors, who had to change their style when Curry went down not once but twice with injuries during their last postseason run. This may not be quite as radical a transformation as, say, swapping the two-time MVP for Shaun Livingston, but it's a credit to the system Kerr installed—as well as the ethos of coachability he helped establish—that Brown can step in (as Walton did a year ago) and succeed even while allowing a number of changes to take root.
It's a situation Brown has been ready for since he came here, and he's quick to credit his boss for laying the groundwork.
"Steve is really good at trying to keep everybody engaged throughout the course of the year," Brown said, "and when you get to a point like we are now, you can see that it pays off."
Erik Malinowski covers the Warriors for B/R. His book, Betaball: How Silicon Valley and Science Built One of the Greatest Basketball Teams in History, will be published in October. Follow him on Twitter: @erikmal.

Los Angeles Clippers guard Austin Rivers believes the organization should keep the team's foundation in place this offseason because they are "a piece away" from NBA title contention.
Rivers told TMZ Sports it would be "idiotic" for the Clippers, who have point guard Chris Paul and power forward Blake Griffin among their potential free agents, to break up the roster this summer.
The son of Clippers head coach Doc Rivers added: "We still feel like we can be an NBA championship team."
Los Angeles was eliminated from the 2017 NBA playoffs following an entertaining seven-game series with the Utah Jazz in the first round. The Clips haven't advanced beyond the conference semifinals in their history, which dates back to time as the Buffalo Braves starting in 1970-71.
They have reached the postseason for six straight years with their current structure in place. But their lack of playoff success combined with the unsettled status of Paul and Griffin has raised questions about whether an offseason of change lies ahead.
Along with the two franchise stalwarts, who own early-termination options, sharpshooter J.J. Redick and depth assets Raymond Felton, Brandon Bass and Alan Anderson can become unrestricted free agents. Luc Richard Mbah a Moute and Marreese Speights hold player options, while Paul Pierce is set to retire.
In addition, ESPN's Marc Stein reported in March there's been "persistent chatter" around the NBA about Doc Rivers potentially returning to the Orlando Magic, though a timetable is unclear.
The younger Rivers enjoyed his most complete season in 2016-17. He averaged 12.0 points, 2.8 assists and 2.2 rebounds, while shooting 44.2 percent from the field, including 37.1 percent from three-point range. All of those numbers represented career highs.
Although the 24-year-old combo guard is hopeful the Clippers keep their top assets and find that missing piece either through free agency or the draft, it might not be possible. He could be in line for a much bigger role next season if a shake-up does occur.

On Thursday night, the San Antonio Spurs closed out the Houston Rockets in a rout. The game never appeared close, and the Spurs ended up coasting to a 114-75 victory. With that lopsided contest in the books, three of the four teams were confirmed for the Eastern and Western Conference Finals.
If the Boston Celtics beat the Washington Wizards on Friday, all four teams will be set in the battle to make the NBA Finals.
If the Wizards manage to defend their home court, however, we'll get a Game 7 on Monday, May 15.
We're here with everything you need to know to enjoy Friday's game, including scheduling and television information. We'll also examine the latest odds—courtesy of our friends at OddsShark.com—and check out the latest playoff-related storylines.
      
Boston Celtics at Washington Wizards
What: Game 6 (BOS Leads 3-2)
Where: Verizon Center, Washington D.C.
When: Friday, May 12
Time: 8 p.m. ET
National TV: ESPN
Live Stream: WatchESPN
Line: WAS 1-2
Prediction: Washington wins to force Game 7.
     
Latest Buzz
Backs Against the Home Wall
It's win or go home time for the Wizards, and everyone on the team knows it. One more loss and the 2016-17 season is over in Washington.
The good news for Wizards fans (and the team, obviously) is that this game is being played in D.C. This is a big deal because Washington has been a very different team in this series at home than in Boston.
Neil Greenberg of the Washington Post recently pointed out several intriguing stats regarding the home-and-away series.
The Wizards have allowed 95.5 points per 100 possessions against the Celtics at home but 124.3 points per 100 possessions away. Washington has also produced 21 shot deflections per game at home and just 14 per game away.
Why the discrepancy? Many would argue that it's just easier to play in front of the home crowd. Wizards coach Scott Brooks gave his opinion, per Candace Buckner of the Washington Post:
"I think that's been analyzed and studied since the game was invented. The home court, you always have a comfort level and a lot of times your bench always plays better at home. Just happens. I don't really know the real reason. I've been thinking about it for many, many years—even as a player I've always felt better."
If Washington can avoid the kind of letdown the Rockets experienced yesterday, there should indeed be a Game 7. The problem for Washington is that the next game won't be at home.
      
Celtics Need to Close It Out Now
While the Celtics know that a potential Game 7 will be played in Boston, they need to do everything they can to close the series out on Friday. That Game 7 won't come until Monday, a day after the Golden State Warriors and San Antonio Spurs kick off the Western Conference Finals.
If the Celtics have to win in Game 7, they won't be entering their conference final with much rest.
The problem is that the Celtics haven't been very good in Washington recently—the team hasn't won there since last January. Boston has been dominated there in this series, losing by an average of 23 points.
"I thought the Wizards obviously took it to us [in Washington] the last two games," Celtics head coach Brad Stevens said, per Gary Washburn of the Boston Globe. "We have to play better and our focus is on that. I think the biggest reason why we've struggled here is the quality of the competition. Washington is a really good team. They're really hard to play against, regardless of venue."
If the Celtics want to give themselves the best chance to make the NBA Finals, they need to treat this game like it's an elimination game, not Game 6.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
LeBron Dunks on the Warriors
Tristan Thompson No Look Assist to LeBron
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
     
The Cavaliers are Waiting
Regardless of who wins this series, the fact remains that the conference final is going to be a challenge. This is because LeBron James and the mighty Cleveland Cavaliers are waiting. In fact, they've been waiting since last Sunday, when the team wrapped up a sweep of the Toronto Raptors.
To say Cleveland will be well-rested would be an understatement.
Even if Boston wins this series and earns home-court advantage in the next, the Cavaliers are going to be favorites. They've simply been a different team in the postseason. James has been especially remarkable, averaging 34.4 points, 9.0 rebounds, 7.1 assists and 2.1 steals per game.
What makes Cleveland even more dangerous is the shooters—like Deron Williams and Kyle Korver—the team has surrounded him with. As a group, the Cavaliers are making 43.4 percent of their three-point attempts.
With fellow stars Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving also in the rotation, the Cavaliers are deep, talented and dangerous. Still, it's LeBron that strikes fear into the hearts of opposing teams.
"Man, go easy on my Celtics if they make it past the Wizards," actor and Boston superfan Mark Wahlberg said to James, via Fox 8 Cleveland. "Maybe let them get one win."
The Celtics, of course, have to get one win against the Wizards first.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Howard Beck is back talking NBA postseason and Celtics point guard Isaiah Thomas' future in Boston. 
Follow B/R NBA Analyst Howard Beck for more news and updates. 

The 2017 NBA draft is slated for June 22 at Brooklyn's Barclays Center, making now as good a time as any to get up to speed on the entire process.
Which players are eligible for selection? How is the draft order determined? How will this life-changing night unfold?
All those questions and more will be answered in this handy draft guide.
                 
DRAFT ELIGIBILITY RULES

The high school pipeline to the NBA closed with the implementation of the 2005 collective bargaining agreement. That's when the league established a minimum early-entry age of 19, along with the requirement that American players be one year removed from high school.
The rule hasn't made anyone happy since, save perhaps for Kentucky head coach John Calipari, who has embraced "one-and-done" college talents like no other and landed three of the last seven No. 1 picks (Karl-Anthony Towns, 2015; Anthony Davis, 2012; John Wall, 2010).
Both sides of the NBA aisle have campaigned for change. Commissioner Adam Silver has made clear the league's desire to push the minimum age to 20. The National Basketball Players Association, meanwhile, has tried to remove this restriction and re-open a preps-to-pros avenue.
But with both parties having signed a new collective bargaining agreement in January, this system will stay in place for the foreseeable future.
It is evolving in other areas, though.
Starting in 2016, the window widened for players to test the draft waters. Unlike before, they could now attend the combine and work out for teams before deciding whether to stay in the draft. That presumably helped paint a much clearer picture of if and when they might be drafted. As long as they didn't hire an agent, they maintained their college basketball eligibility through a certain withdrawal date.
This year, players had to declare for the draft by April 23. The NBA received 182 such declarations from early-entry candidates—137 collegiate players and 45 international prospects.
Those players now have until 5 p.m. ET on Monday, June 12, to withdraw from consideration, although the NCAA requires them to do so by May 24 in order to retain college basketball eligibility.
                          
THE NBA DRAFT COMBINE

Think of the combine as the ultimate basketball job fair. Prospective NBA players pack into a gymnasium—Chicago's Quest Center—in hopes of wowing potential employers through interviews, physical tests and good, old-fashioned basketball.
This year's combine runs from May 9 through May 14 and has 67 hoops hopefuls in attendance:
NBA will have 67 players at next week's draft combine in Chicago. Thursday and Friday -- 2-6 PM CT on ESPN2. Here's the list: s://t.co/UXqh3JbSL6
The basic objective of getting to the league is the same for all, but since some are already closer to that dream than others, their combine itineraries can vary.
Markelle Fultz, a hyper-charged point guard out of Washington, tops the draft board of nearly every mock drafter. He's in the Windy City to shake hands, chat with executives and dazzle with his impressive measurements. At this point, court work of any kind—be it drills or full five-on-five runs—becomes an unnecessary risk, at least in the eyes of his agent.
That's why many of the presumed early picks simply stay away. Potential top-five selections Lonzo Ball (UCLA), Josh Jackson (Kansas) and Jayson Tatum (Duke) saw more harm than good in being poked and prodded, so they all declined their invitations.
The league runs those in attendance through virtually every test imaginable.
Players are measured for height, weight, body fat percentage, wingspan, hand length, hand width and standing reach. They are tested on the bench press, vertical leap, standing vertical, three-quarter sprint, shuttle run and lane agility. They go through game actions like shooting on the move, spot-up sniping and even full-on scrimmaging.
It isn't the last chance for these players to improve their draft positioning. Individual and team workouts lead up to the big night as clubs seek to gain as much information as possible in this process.
But the amount of prospects and NBA personnel in attendance at the combine make it one of the more important dates on the roundball calendar.
                             
THE DRAFT LOTTERY
For all the talk on tanking surrounding the Philadelphia 76ers NBA of late, it takes more than a bad record to land the top pick.
Luck plays a part as well—by way of 14 pingpong balls and four-digit combinations. It's a rather monotonous process, so we'll stick to the abridged version.
As NBA.com explains, 14 pingpong balls are put in the lottery machine, mixed for 20 seconds and one is removed. The process repeats three more times, only the mixing period decreases to 10 seconds.
The four balls are placed in order, revealing the winning combination—there are 1,001 possible combos—and rewarding the corresponding team with the selection. The second and third picks are awarded the same way.
This is where tanking comes in. The amount of combinations owned by each of the 14 lottery teams corresponds to their reverse order in the standings. The worse one fares in season, the better their odds become on draft night. This season's odds are shown below.
Once the top three selections are dispersed, the remaining 11 follow the reverse order. Since clubs can and do have identical records sometimes, any necessary tiebreakers are determined beforehand.
The Minnesota Timberwolves and New York Knicks both finished this season 31-51 overall, necessitating an April pingpong ball draw for the tiebreaker. Minnesota won, meaning if neither club jumps into the top three, the Wolves will make their pick before the Knicks.
The 2017 draft lottery will be held Tuesday, May 16, at 8 p.m. ET, and it will be televised on ESPN.
                                
OUTSTANDING TRADES
There's one more step to setting the draft order—paying off the debts of previous trades.
That's why the Boston Celtics have both the Eastern Conference's best record and the NBA's best lottery odds. Back in 2013, the Shamrocks had the foresight to fleece the Brooklyn Nets by shipping out fast-fading stars Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce and Jason Terry for a smorgasbord of draft assets.
This choice is one of those assets. It's actually a swap, as Brooklyn will pick up the Nos. 27 and 57 picks from Boston in the process, but the Celtics remain massive winners in this exchange.
The Los Angeles Lakers will watch the lottery more closely than anyone. They have two first-round picks at stake, due to previous deals for Steve Nash and Dwight Howard. L.A. keeps its first-rounder only if it falls within the top three. Otherwise, this pick goes to the Philadelphia 76ers (via the Phoenix Suns)—and 2019's first-rounder will belong to the Orlando Magic. (If the Lakers keep their selection, they'll instead send 2017 and 2018 second-rounders to the Magic and their 2018 unprotected first-rounder to Philly.)
The New Orleans Pelicans owe the Sacramento Kings a first-round pick from February's DeMarcus Cousins deal. But the selection has top-three protection on it this year, so there's a chance it won't move. If it doesn't, the protection becomes top-one from 2018 to 2020 and then unprotected in 2021.
The Kings, meanwhile, must stay inside the top 10 to avoid giving their first-rounder to the Chicago Bulls. If Sacramento manages that, it would then give up its second-rounder to Chicago. The Kings also gave the Sixers the option to swap picks should Sacramento's own first-round selection fall ahead of Philly's.
Only three teams choosing between picks No. 20 and 30 still own their original selections—the Oklahoma City Thunder (21), Utah Jazz (24) and San Antonio Spurs (29). The majority of second-round picks have already exchanged hands in different deals.             
                         
DRAFT NIGHT
An impromptu fashion show typically precedes the annual talent grab, as hoops stars of tomorrow become present-day millionaires and start dressing the part. It's a light, fun way to celebrate the players and ease some of the tension created by the fact NBA franchises could strengthen or spoil their stocks with a single selection.
This will be the fifth consecutive year the festivities will be held at the Barclays Center and the fourth for Silver as commissioner. That means he's on the mic to announce all 30 first-round selections, while deputy commissioner Mark Tatum takes over for the second round.
Teams have five minutes on the clock (two for the second) to either make their selection or broker a deal with someone who wants it. Trades are commonplace, as 11 were made before, during or immediately after last year's draft alone.
It's tough to tell how that number will change this time around. The 2017 class is said to feature more star power and depth, which should increase interest in both buying and keeping picks.
"The June draft...should be one of the deepest and most versatile in years," NBA.com's David Aldridge wrote. "If ever a talent-deprived team needed to have a pick, or picks, this is the year. There has rarely been a year with as many point guards available...or so many different kinds of scoring wings."
Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman has five point guards in the top 10 on his big board, including Fultz at No. 1 and Ball two spots back. Jackson (second), Tatum (fourth) and Jonathan Isaac (fifth, Florida State) round out his top five.
                         
Draft pick information obtained via RealGM.
Zach Buckley covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @ZachBuckleyNBA.           
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Despite the sweeps, NBA fans have made this postseason one for the books. 
Watch above. 
After struggling mightily in Thursday’s Game 6 loss to the San Antonio Spurs that eliminated his Rockets from the NBA playoffs, star James Harden hit up Set nightclub in Houston.
The Beard was joined by rapper Travis Scott, Kylie Jenner and a few Houston Texans players, according to TMZ.
Fans there showered Harden with "MVP" chants.
Some will criticize Harden for the post-loss partying, but it seemed to be nothing more than a way to blow off steam.
[TMZ]

Former longtime Miami Heat forward Udonis Haslem called for members of the last Boston Celtics championship team to get over guard Ray Allen's 2012 move from the Celtics to the Heat.
In an interview on the Joe Rose Show (h/t Ira Winderman of the Sun Sentinel), Haslem defended his former teammate: 
"I mean, they got to let that go. I think when you get to a point where you're a free agent, you have the opportunity to make the best decision for you. Quality of life: Boston, Miami? Ahh, you guys can figure that one out. ... I mean, and I understand, because at that time it was somewhat of a rivalry between us and Boston. But even when they had Ray we beat 'em. So it wasn't like Ray came and helped us get over the edge."
He went on to explain that the Heat had already beat the Celtics with Allen as a member in the 2012 Eastern Conference Finals (language NSFW): "It's not like the year before with Ray they beat us. Put it this way, it wasn't the similar situation to maybe Kevin Durant going to the team that beat him. It was, you got your ass whooped with Ray, and we got Ray and we whooped your ass again."
Haslem's comments came on the heels of a 2007-08 Celtics reunion during TNT's Area 21 segment Monday between Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce, Rajon Rondo, Kendrick Perkins and Glen Davis.
They discussed the Allen situation at length, and KG explained why there is still bad blood between the two sides, per ESPN.com's Chris Forsberg: 
"Everybody's asking us, 'Where's Ray?' People don't understand that this is real life for us. The situation with Ray is very sensitive. I think that when we all talked about doing this reunion tour, we were talking about guys who we consider loyal and part of this group. Just being honest, my two cents, when Ray decided to go to the Heat, I felt like he moved on. And he went to pursue another ring, he got another ring, shouts to him. And that's it. There was no other Wizards, it wasn't no other Spurs, it wasn't no other Heat. It was all Celtics invited to this."
Allen helped lead Boston to a championship in 2008, but after the Celtics were bounced from the playoffs by the Heat in 2012, he made the leap to Miami.
The likely future Hall of Famer was a key figure in the Heat's 2013 championship, as he hit multiple clutch shots against the San Antonio Spurs during the NBA Finals.
Boston hasn't been back to the Finals since Allen's departure, but it is the No. 1 seed in this year's Eastern Conference and one win away from reaching the conference final.
Hamidou Diallo posted a 44.5" vertical, 2nd highest in #NBACombine history! 👀
s://t.co/LgJmBAWyZT
Hamidou Diallo could be one of the first players ever to go "none"-and-done.
The Kentucky Wildcats freshman guard didn't see a minute of action under John Calipari this season, but DraftExpress projects him as an early second-round pick. Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman had him No. 23 on his big board before his jump at the NBA Draft Combine.
This is why.
On Thursday, the 18-year-old posted a 44.5-inch vertical leap, second-highest in combine history, according to FanDuel.
On his first attempt, the 6'5" Diallo nearly cleared the measuring mechanism entirely:
Hamidou Diallo nearly cleared the vertical on his first try so they brought in stuff to make it go higher. Ridiculous leaping ability. s://t.co/BstSRKAobx
Kay Felder, now with the Cleveland Cavaliers, "unofficially" reached the second-highest vertical last year after former University of Memphis star D.J. Stephens flew 46 inches in 2013.

Ayesha shared video of the cheers Steph Curry got when they went to see Hamilton s://t.co/AwyeiIi0Je
While the San Antonio Spurs were pounding the Houston Rockets into elimination Thursday night, Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry was enjoying some theater.
The two-time reigning MVP and his wife, Ayesha, received raucous cheers at Hamilton at the SHN Orpheum Theater in San Francisco.
Curry also got "MVP" chants, per Michael Gehlken of the Las Vegas Review-Journal.
One perk to Warriors' sweep for Steph Curry: Attend "Hamilton" on a Thursday night. Chants of "MVP!" filled theater before show. s://t.co/Xulvpva7OX
Golden State will host Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals against San Antonio Sunday at 3:30 p.m. ET.


The NBA is dominated by three teams: the Golden State Warriors, the Cleveland Cavaliers and the San Antonio Spurs.
There seems to be no end in sight for any team in that trio giving up its stranglehold on NBA supremacy for the foreseeable future.
It's imperative that teams languishing in the NBA's bottom to middle tiers take some gambles on high-risk, high-reward players in order to set themselves up for the potential to break into the league's elite someday.
Here's a look at three of those prospects who have some red flags but could end up flourishing down the line.
In case you're wondering, it's entirely coincidental that the three NBA draft prospects below were all one-and-done players who were on ACC teams.
Jonathan Isaac
Former Florida State forward Jonathan Isaac is projected to go in the top 10 of the NBA draft by DraftExpress (No. 8), Jonathan Wasserman of Bleacher Report (No. 6) and NBADraft.net (No. 6).
It's pretty clear why that's the case. The smooth 6'10" forward is just 19 years old and enjoyed a fine season at Florida State, averaging 12.0 points, 7.8 rebounds and 1.5 blocks per game. He also shot 34.8 percent from three-point range for a Seminoles team that earned a No. 3 seed in the NCAA tournament.
There are two concerns about Isaac. First, he had a poor second half of the season, scoring five or fewer points in four of his last 12 games. Second, he is a bit slight for 6'10", weighing just 210 pounds. Here are some notes from NBADraft.net:
"Lacks much strength in both the lower and upper body...has a slight frame. Shows long term potential to defend multiple positions but struggles keeping position defending the post, causing him to pick up fouls. Struggles with physical play."
Still, Isaac will only be 20 when the 2017-18 NBA season starts. He has room (and time) to grow into his frame. Furthermore, he has a fan in ESPN analyst (and former Division I men's basketball head coach) Fran Fraschilla, who said the following to Sirius XM Radio (h/t 247 Sports):
.@franfraschilla said that @jisaac_01 can be the best player to come out of this 2017 @NBA Draft!
Isaac has a ton of potential and could emerge as the best forward in this year's class.
     
Dennis Smith Jr.
In his one year at North Carolina State, point guard Dennis Smith Jr. averaged 18.1 points and 6.2 assists per game, highlighted by a 32-point effort in an 84-82 upset victory at Duke.
However, like Isaac, Smith was inconsistent, most notably scoring just seven points and committing four turnovers in NC State's lifeless performance in the ACC tournament against Clemson, a 75-61 loss in the first round.
It didn't help that NC State had a tumultuous season, as head coach Mark Gottfried was fired in mid-February but still finished out the season.
Gottfried happens to be one of Smith's biggest supporters. Here's what he said about the 19-year-old, per Keith Pompey of Philly.com, in regards to whether he would fit on the Philadelphia 76ers, who will likely pick in the top five of this year's NBA draft:
I think he has a chance to become an elite-level guard in time in the NBA. I personally think with Ben [Simmons] healthy that the two of them together would be quite an amazing combination. I think their skills actually complement each other.
A few point guard-needy teams exist in the top half of the NBA draft, including the New York Knicks, Sacramento Kings and Detroit Pistons. It wouldn't be a surprise to see Smith land in the top 10.
      
Harry Giles
It's difficult to return from one knee injury, but the former No. 1 prospect in the class of 2016, per ESPN, is trying to return to form following two knee injuries.
Harry Giles tore the ACL and MCL in his left knee in 2013 and the ACL in his right knee in 2015. He didn't have a productive year in Durham, averaging just 3.9 points and 3.8 rebounds in 11.9 minutes per game.
In his defense, he didn't even suit up until December 19 as he sat out the beginning of the year recovering from his second knee injury.
On the plus side, some of Giles' performances at the NBA Draft Combine in Chicago were incredible for a player coming off multiple serious knee injuries. Here are the stats, per Eric Fawcett of Press Basketball:
Questioning why a team would want Harry Giles? Coming off injury and he posts 9th best lane agility and 6th best shuttle run as a 6'10.5" PF s://t.co/xM8sPJDU9a
Giles measured at 6'10 ½" with shoes alongside a 7'3 ⅓" wingspan.
However, Wasserman noted that the 19-year-old's vertical didn't help his cause:
Harry Giles posted a 32.5 inch max vert. Doesn't help his case or answer questions about his bounce fully returning.
Giles could be picked by a team in the back end of the lottery that is looking to redshirt him for a year and hope he eventually returns to the form which caused so many people to think the sky was the limit for him when he was in high school.

Jeff Van Gundy believes the debate about who is better between LeBron James and Michael Jordan is very close. 
Speaking on Zach Lowe's ESPN podcast, Van Gundy offered this response to the James vs. Jordan discussion, via The Big Lead's Jason McIntyre:
"The conversation is relevant right now, whether he wins another championship or not … he's playing at peak prime production and efficiency this late in his career … the conversation is already relevant. I'm not going to go as much on championships … if you're going to talk about best careers, there's no way you can say it’s not close. It's close. Already. If he runs off another 2-3 years like he's going at right now, you're talking about 17 years like this? It's going to be amazing."
After leading the Cleveland Cavaliers to sweeps over the Indiana Pacers and Toronto Raptors in this year's postseason, James is four wins away from playing in the NBA Finals for the seventh consecutive season. 
In 14 NBA seasons with the Cavaliers and Miami Heat, James has won four MVP awards, three championships, three NBA Finals MVP awards and has been selected to the All-NBA first team 10 times. 
Jordan played 15 seasons with the Chicago Bulls and Washington Wizards. He won six NBA Finals—being named MVP all six times—won five NBA MVP awards and was named to the All-NBA first team 10 times. 
James Harden had something in his eyes tonight. s://t.co/JNLkFeuxOJ
James Harden had his worst game of the year in the most important spot.
The Houston Rockets star finished with 10 points on 2-of-11 shooting (2-of-9 from three) to go along with seven assists and six turnovers in the 114-75 Game 6 loss Thursday night.
The Spurs won the series 4-2 and will advance to the Western Conference Finals against the Golden State Warriors.
Twitter was not kind to the MVP candidate:
Rockets: "Hey James Harden. We need a big game from you tonight."

Him: s://t.co/X5hLQHqrhL
Media: James Harden looks disappointed and admits he let his team down. 

James Harden in an hour:

 s://t.co/Ot5qN4L6Mb
James Harden trying to explain another Rockets blow out, this time without Kawhi Leonard s://t.co/LirRd0u9VE
Rockets fans: James Harden the real MVP!!!

Me: jAmeS hArDEn tHe reAL mVp!!! s://t.co/EaUoGPLBak
The "MVP" with as many turnovers (5) as pts at halftime of an elimination game Kawhi's sitting out...

s://t.co/SApoS3gCIN
I apologize to James harden I'm ready to talk and end the curse... it's time to talk and be the leader everyone believes you are - Lil B
James Harden is just a glorified Lou Will
Kawhi was clamping James Harden from the bench.
James Harden looking like the Monstars took all of his basketball talents before the game. s://t.co/FcomRNhVW2


HOUSTON — Before he fouled out of the game and calmly accepted defeat and the end of his season; before he embraced Gregg Popovich and graciously told the victorious coach, "Continue to be great"; before he lingered to salute several court-side fans firsthand and then throw his warm-up jersey into the cheaper seats as a souvenir…
James Harden had a flash of his old lack of discipline.
A fan in the third row behind the Houston Rockets bench had turned on Harden. The fan stood up, arms out and palms up, to roar negatively and vent his frustration as Harden approached the bench for a timeout with 4:18 to play and the San Antonio Spurs leading 108-72 in the decisive Game 6 of the Western Conference semifinals on Thursday.
Harden had a little something to say in return. Not much, but enough.
Louder and prouder that he'd gotten his point across personally, the fan ramped it up. Soon Rockets security had the fan escorted out of the arena, and the guy went willingly, having seen enough of Harden anyway.
It was a reminder of just how much falls on Houston's franchise player.
Harden didn't deliver in the biggest game of the season—right after he hadn't delivered late in the previous game, a letdown that could be viewed as an even bigger failure. And whether it was more fatigue from a long, burdensome season or more complacency from knowing San Antonio MVP candidate Kawhi Leonard was out with an injury, it was Harden's lack of discipline and execution that did the Rockets in as their season ended in a 114-75 loss to the Spurs.
He came so far in those areas this season. Yet to reach the championship level, you must have much more. The NBA playoffs demand discipline and execution from teams, and this series was a reminder the Rockets don't have enough of either quality.
They don't have off-the-charts talent, either, but neither do the Spurs. What San Antonio does have is Popovich, who ensures his team will maintain focus amid playoff adversity when it feels like you're dribbling on an earthquake-rocking floor and you're shooting wearing a pair of those hypnotic swirly glasses.

Rockets coach Mike D'Antoni's gift is encouraging guys to play freely, which made Houston and Harden better than anyone expected this season. But the NBA playoffs are not about freedom.
In part, the postseason is about pressure. And the Rockets felt it Thursday, absolutely—the pressure of being at home, the pressure of facing elimination, the pressure of everyone expecting them to win with Leonard out.
The D'Antoni system works when things come easily. When things get more difficult, you need to have enough discipline and execution to do what you do best.
"You've got to keep your composure throughout the whole way," Rockets guard Eric Gordon said after the game. "The Spurs, you could just tell no matter who is out, you just can't lose your composure. We just didn't play as well; we didn't have a flow going. When we don't have a flow, we don't play our type of game."
It's no coincidence D'Antoni is 6-20 as a playoff coach against Popovich (although 32-38 in the playoffs isn't too great, either). D'Antoni is now 0-5 in playoff series against Popovich, and he pinpointed one of the reasons for that disparity right before Game 6.
"Discipline not to foul," D'Antoni said in praising his adversary for getting his defenders to be aggressive with their feet and bodies but not their hands. "That's huge. That's why they're always every year a championship-caliber team: discipline."
D'Antoni had said it a few days earlier, too. He cited it as the one aspect of Popovich's coaching he most admires.
"He gets 'em to be very disciplined," D'Antoni said. "It must be the military background."
The easygoing, aw-shucks D'Antoni can only be who he is, and if your coach's strength is not giving your team discipline, then your team must get it somewhere else.

The only other logical source is from your superstar.
Harden has matured. Stories abounded in NBA circles in previous years about how often Harden would be at nightclubs or outright uncommunicative with teammates. He has tried to be better, and he has been—especially this season without Dwight Howard's clownish behavior bringing the Rockets down.
But there's still more to ask of him, fair or not.
Maybe he needs another co-star who is innately hard-driving. A classic comparison would be Paul Pierce getting serious about winning in Boston…but also having the more vocal yet disciplined Kevin Garnett to push the team in a way that players' coach Doc Rivers did not.
Trevor Ariza and Patrick Beverley bring fire, and Harden definitely made strides finding his voice as a leader this season. Except the stunning flatness of Houston's performance Thursday drove home the point that the dream pairing of D'Antoni's offense and Harden's skill needs more discipline to go farther than D'Antoni's offense and Steve Nash's skill did in Phoenix.
Bear in mind that Nash was more of a lead-by-example guy who flourished with the freedom D'Antoni granted him. In New York, it was D'Antoni who didn't want a power struggle with Carmelo Anthony and just quit the Knicks. And in L.A., D'Antoni was the one who would look behind and find Kobe Bryant checking himself into the game and just nod agreeably.
Like it or not, it's going to be on Harden and Rockets general manager Daryl Morey to fill the discipline void while obviously trying to upgrade the talent. It's no easy task, as that Rockets fan piling on Harden at his most humbling moment made abundantly clear.
There is duty, though, that comes with the attention-grabbing beard, the endorsements, the corner stall twice as wide as any other in the Rockets locker room.
What was going on with Harden tonight? s://t.co/ZmBKxnkzeS
Harden knows it.
While he initially said "I don't know what it was" when asked to explain such a flop of a final performance, Harden knowingly added: "Everything falls on my shoulders. I take responsibility for it at both ends of the floor. It's tough."
It's also true he needs some help.
"I really just didn't have rhythm from the beginning of the game," Harden continued. "I felt like I was making some passes and we just didn't knock down shots, or whatever the case may be. But as a team, as a unit, we really didn't have a rhythm, and they capitalized on that."
In other words, maybe he wasn't aggressive enough in going for his own offense early, but it was an overall lack of attention to detail by his team that ultimately sank the Rockets. That might be expected on the defensive side of the ball of a D'Antoni-Harden team (although Harden has been trying much harder on defense lately while asked to defend bigger players), but for a D'Antoni-Harden offense to fall out of sorts is stunning.
It would be remiss to not at least ask if fatigue was a factor. To be clear, there's nothing wrong with how Harden wanted to play every game this season, but it's the job of the coach, especially in today's NBA, to put a foot down and decide if rest is necessary. Case in point: Popovich acknowledged that Leonard flat-out wanted to play Thursday. Pop said no.
One of the two had the discipline to have a plan, and even if the Spurs had lost Thursday, Leonard would've benefitted with two more days to rest his ankle sprain before Game 7 in San Antonio on Sunday.
Obviously, Popovich's team was so well-prepared to execute without Leonard (both down the stretch of Game 5 and throughout Game 6) that one wonders if resting key players throughout the regular season prepared the Spurs to take care of business in such a stunning way without Leonard in the playoffs.

So surprising was the manner in which Game 6 played out, given the 10 points, seven assists, three rebounds, one steal and six turnovers Harden put up, that it is difficult to remember that Harden still finished a possible MVP season by averaging 28.5 points, 8.5 assists, 5.5 rebounds and 1.9 steals in the playoffs.
In NBA history, the only other player to average at least 28.0 points, 8.0 assists, 5.0 rebounds and 1.9 steals (steals became an official stat in 1973-74) in a single postseason with at least six games played was Michael Jordan in 1990-91.
No one will remember Harden's smooth moves, though.
The crescendo of this series? San Antonio's discipline burying Houston's freedom.
The Spurs will now try to do that to Golden State. Alas, the Warriors have far more talent and discipline than the Rockets.
As fun of a season as it was for Houston, when the music stops, you realize you can't just dance to whatever sounds you hear.
     
Kevin Ding is an NBA senior writer for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, @KevinDing.

There may not be many star-studded names at this year's NBA Draft Combine, but there certainly is a lot of star power in this year's draft class, even outside of the top-five picks.
With the NBA Draft Lottery taking place next Tuesday, May 16, we'll be able to properly create mock drafts based on real draft position, not just on projection. The Boston Celtics currently have the best odds for the No. 1 overall pick, but it wouldn't be the first time a team with the best odds hasn't gotten the top pick.
It'll be deja vu for a lot of Celtics fans out there who will have flashbacks to the 1997 draft when they missed out on Tim Duncan despite having two shots at the top pick, including the second-worst odds going into the lottery. 
But even if Boston doesn't get this year's top spot—and decide not to trade the pick in a package deal for s star player—there will be plenty of players to chose from in this year's class.
Here's a look at my mock draft as the combine continues:
    
2017 NBA Mock Draft: Round 1
     
Notable Selections
No. 2 Phoenix Suns: Josh Jackson, F, Kansas

Josh Jackson has the potential to be the best two-way coming out of this year's draft. And if the Celtics, or any team for that matter, get the top pick, it wouldn't be a surprise to see a general manager pull the trigger on the Kansas freshman.
Jackson's combination of athleticism and size (6'8", 207 lbs) already jumps off the tape. But when you combine his body with a great basketball IQ, an ability to attack the basket, efficient shooting and the strength to play lockdown defense, there aren't many players coming out of their freshman year of college with those type of tools in their rookie season. 
Jackson shot 51.3 percent from the floor, scoring 16.3 points while registering 7.4 rebounds, 3.0 assists, 1.1 blocks and 1.7 steals per game. He could do with some time in the weight room before banging with some of the NBA's best wing players, but Jackson can already average double-figures in the Association and can contribute defensively, which is exactly what the Phoenix Suns will be looking for with the No. 2 selection in this mock draft.
Even ESPN's Tim Legler seems to think that Jackson is a can't miss prospect, per 975 The Fanatic: 
"If Josh Jackson is there you have to take him no question. He is the closest thing to Kawhi Leonard I've ever seen." -@LegsESPN
The backcourt for the Suns is crowded, but what else is new? This is the same team that tried to make Eric Bledsoe, Goran Dragic and Isaiah Thomas all work in unison. The Suns have a franchise piece in Devin Booker, but they still need to accumulate talent in any way possible.
Taking the best player off the board in Jackson will do just that, and he will reward his new team with exceptional highlight-reel plays. 
     
No. 7 New York Knicks Jonathan Isaac, F, Florida State

This selection may raise a few eyebrows, but let's face it: New York Knicks fans will never be happy with who they draft. Remember all those boos and jeers Kristaps Porzingis got two years ago? Now look at them, begging the Knicks not to trade him.
Jonathan Isaac might receive some boos as well, but he's a player with a ceiling that only the likes of Markelle Fultz and Jackson can reach.
Isaac is a raw talent, there's no easier way to say it. His freshman season had Florida State showcased his athleticism and ability to stretch the floor, but he never really showed the drive and determination to take over a game, which will matter in the NBA if he is to be seen as a top-tier talent.
Fortunately for Isaac, being drafted by the Knicks means he won't need to be that player right away. He can learn and develop his 6'10", 207-pound frame while Carmelo Anthony (if he's still with the Knicks next season) and Porzingis are the current No. 1 and 2 options on offense.
Isaac will bring length to the Knicks inside and out as he will be able to rebound effectively (7.8 rebounds per game) and shoot a respectable clip from three-point range (34.8 percent). 
He is a project, but the talent is there to become a two-way menace for years to come. It all just needs to come together for Isaac. 
      
No. 29 San Antonio Spurs Harry Giles, C, Duke

Wouldn't this be something?
If Harry Giles falls in this year's draft to the end of the first round because of a poor freshman season at Duke and concerns over the stability of his knees, the best place for him will be the San Antonio Spurs.
Not only will he be able to learn from, arguably, the best coach in the league today, but he will also have the likes of LaMarcus Aldridge, Pau Gasol and Kawhi Leonard mentoring him.
That's a dream come true for any NBA prospect. 
Giles won't have to contribute right away, either, and can let his body catch up to the mental side of the game. For those of you who aren't aware of the potential of Giles heading into college, it would be wise to do research before declaring him a bust or too injury-prone to draft.
Before he tore his ACL in high school, Giles was destined to be the No. 1 overall pick in this year's draft. Even after the injury, he was still at the very top of draft boards. A sub-par freshman season at Duke that was riddled with injuries and inconsistency left a lot of pundits wondering if he can ever come back to the athletic freak that he was.
It's possible that Giles never regains that burst and confidence that sent the hype train off the tracks, but he's only 19-years-old and has a lot of time to grow. If the the Spurs are lucky enough, Giles will be there for the taking, and they could have a potential franchise piece in the waiting. 
     
All stats are courtesy of ESPN.com unless otherwise noted. 

The NBA embraces all fans with open arms this time of year. 
Where to start? The 2017 NBA Draft Combine is underway. The lottery will soon determine the fate of those teams (un)lucky enough to have their names scribbled on pingpong balls. All the while, the playoffs look like a bracket ready to spit out the Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors in the Finals yet again.
To top it all off, these happenings light the rumors mill ablaze. This offseason doesn't have the allure of, say, LeBron James going back home or Kevin Durant embracing the villain role. But it does have notables such as Carmelo Anthony and Paul George headlining the show.
So for those who left, come on back. For those still around, enjoy the show.
           
Jonas Valanciunas, the Under-the-Radar Trade Candidate

Don't sleep on the Toronto Raptors blowing up the roster up this offseason.
It's clear the Cavaliers have the Eastern Conference in a chokehold, hence the sweep of the Raptors in almost casual fashion. LeBron continues to age but viewers would be hard pressed to actually believe such a fact of nature. For the Raptors specifically, it doesn't help that Kyle Lowry and DeMar DoRozan are two of the worst star playoff performers of their time.
With Lowry heading to free agency, the Raptors might try to clear even more cap space by moving center Jonas Valanciunas, a nugget mentioned by ESPN.com's Zach Lowe recently.
"Trading Jonas Valanciunas loomed as the alternate cost-cutting measure, but no one needs a center. The most likely Valanciunas deals would return someone else's unwanted big fella," Lowe wrote.
Valanciunas is a traditional center. There was nothing wrong with that even five years ago, really. But it's a problem now because while Valanciunas is 7'0" and 255 pounds, the game keeps moving to smaller lineups and big men who can't run up and down the floor or space it with shooting aren't valuable (hence him getting 25.8 minutes per game this year).
So maybe the Raptors want to move Valanciunas, maybe not. Whether a team actually wants his skill set is another conversation entirely.
         
Carmelo Anthony's Next Destination 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
We can pen the above subhead with confidence because it's hard to imagine Carmelo Anthony is a member of the New York Knicks next year.
Anthony has always remained adamant he wants to stick with the Knicks and help build the team into a contender, a nice legacy-defining goal that seems to be fading by the minute. Team president Phil Jackson outright saying Anthony should probably leave town isn't helping things.
This puts Anthony in a bit of a pickle. Which team wants a 32-year-old forward on the downswing of his career set to have a cap hit north of $26 million in each of his next two years, per Spotrac, is hard to say.
The Miami Heat don't sound interested, at least, according to Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald: "One person in touch with the Heat said he does not expect a Heat pursuit of Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony, who's available via trade."
On one hand, team president Pat Riley knows how to rebuild his team with the gentle snap of a finger. On the other, he has plenty of cash tied up in Goran Dragic, has a young forward by the name of Justise Winslow he wants to keep grooming and seems committed to keeping the youth movement going with Dwyane Wade out of the picture.
If a team like the Raptors might blow it up because nobody can stop LeBron, a team like the Heat likely works from the basis that Anthony isn't the proverbial missing piece necessary to seize the conference.
Anthony has quality years left as a scorer, but at least one notable buyer in recent years doesn't have an interest in making the investment.
        
Indiana's Paul George Problem

Like it or not, the Indiana Pacers have a Paul George problem.
George wants to win championships. It seems like a logical thing to say about any superstar, but George's situation is especially perilous. He loves his hometown Los Angeles Lakers, according to Mitch Lawrence of Sporting News, and he only has one more year on his current deal.
Indiana's inability to surround George with enough pieces to contend in LeBron's conference is highlighted by Larry Bird stepping down from his duties as president recently.
Where does that leave George and the Pacers?
Conventional wisdom suggests a small-market team like the Pacers would love to keep George in town for the long term. If he qualifies for certain media-voted teams, they can even offer him a bigger extension than any other team can offer.
But will the Pacers want to? Maybe not, according to Nate Taylor of the Indianapolis Star: "But some in the franchise, according to sources, are unsure whether the Pacers would be willing to sign George to such a lucrative deal to keep him."

How's that for an interesting development?
In a way, it makes sense. Paying George that much to stick around might only eat into the funds needed to even help him compete in the Eastern Conference. Some in the Indianapolis front office might think the odds of competing for a title in the long term are better if they build in a more traditional sense through the draft.
Interestingly enough, Lowe recently noted the Lakers might offer up prospects in a trade for George, which would mesh quite well with Indiana's rebuilding plans.
This feels like the world's easiest game of connect the dots. But the Lakers would need to want to give up valuable assets in the first place while knowing the Pacers might not want to pay George at all. And with such knowledge out there, the Pacers might not be able to get back the return they'd prefer in a trade.
So, yes, George's situation this offseason, even though he isn't a free agent, is by far the most interesting thing happening.
            
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.

If only there was an emoji for a dumpster fire that we could break out whenever the New York Knicks monopolize headlines out of turn.
The latest in Knicks Knicks-ing: Kristaps Porzingis tweeted, then deleted, "LA Clippers" followed by three successive smiley face emojis:
Tweeted. Then deleted. 🤔 s://t.co/IjwPrcNfmD
Or rather, we should say "Porzingis' Twitter account," not the 21-year-old himself. He maintains this was the work of a diabolical hacker—a binary sadist existing only to pollute the social media accounts of professional athletes with germane snark.
One of Porzingis' representatives told ESPN.com's Ian Begley the Knicks forward-who-should-be-a-center was asleep at the time of the 16-character security breach. His older brother, meanwhile, told Begley his sibling wants to stay put. Porzingis even relayed a screenshot of his most-used emojis to prove his innocence:
I would never tweet something like that. I dont even use that emoji smiley face. Cmon B 😂😂😂 s://t.co/EXmtej5qzn
This incident speaks to the mass of dysfunction that is the Knicks. Even when they're not playing, even when they're not trying to, they devolve into a laughingstock.
And yet, because these are the Knicks, and because Porzingis is one of them, we have to ask: Is there any truth to this sham? Must fans be worried about Porzingis being traded to the Clippers? About New York moving him at all?
It would be easier to ignore emoji-gate if Porzingis and the Knicks weren't already on rocky terms. He told reporters of organizational confusion from "top to bottom" after a March 12 loss, then reinforced that slant at season's end by ghosting his exit interview with team president Phil Jackson.
This prompted multiple enquiries from outside suitors into his availability, according to Begley. Once again, on its face, this is comical. But amusement dwindles after harkening back to what Jackson said at his year-end media availability, per the Record's Steve Popper:
Phil said that everything has to be on the table, listened to, in rebuild - even including Kristaps.
Also of note: Jackson's presser doubled as an assault on Carmelo Anthony's place with the team. He deflected blame for the Knicks' lost season while repeatedly pointing out the team hasn't won with the All-Star forward.
Anthony responded afterward via Instagram, because this is 2017, and these are the Knicks, and sub-shade is a way of life. Porzingis, of course, "liked" the post:
Welp. s://t.co/fInMkJ14Bc
His support comes as no surprise. The Knicks are an abject disaster, in large part thanks to Jackson's raging incompetence, and Porzingis has on more than one occasion stressed the importance of having Anthony around him. 
That he or his hacker tweeted about the Clippers, of all teams, tracks with all of this. They are the most popular Anthony destination and, as of April, still believed they could trade for him this summer, according to Begley. If Porzingis wasn't hacked, his decision to talk about them is significant—even if his reference wasn't meant for public consumption.
Related: Porzingis' Twitter probably wasn't breached.

Maybe this was a direct message gone wrong. Abigail Ratchford, the 25-year-old model who has been identified as a friend of young Kristaps, tweeted basically the same thing. Whatever it was, the idea that a hacking mastermind carried out this deed feels like a smokescreen.
"More to the point, no hacker would do this," The Ringer's Jason Concepcion wrote. "Listen, I’m not an expert. If I was, I’d be on a beach in Cyprus right now, laughing a supervillain laugh, and living a life of leisure off my ill-gotten gains. But, no. I’m just a person with a phone and a computer and online banking and several social media accounts who reads the news. I find it hard to believe that a hacker or hacking group would endeavor to take over a young millionaire athlete’s social media account just to tweet the name of a team that he has been linked with in trades rumor instead of, like, raiding his phone for d--k pics and credit card numbers."
It's similarly difficult to understand Porzingis' end game if he was, in fact, the keyboard warrior behind this ruse. Was he relaying rumors he heard about himself? About Anthony? Was he trying to leverage the Knicks into moving him? 
If it's the latter, Porzingis is fighting a futile battle. He can send the Knicks into self-reflection by bailing on a meeting, but he doesn't have the clout to force a trade.
There are two years left on his rookie-scale deal, after which time he'll become a restricted free agent (assuming he doesn't sign an extension after Year 3). To control his own fate, he would, at that point, have to leave 10s of millions of dollars on the table to sign his qualifying offer, play out his fifth year and reach unrestricted free agency...in 2020.
Any serious trade talks would have to be initiated by the Knicks. And while the notion of offloading the franchise's most important player since Patrick Ewing is deplorable, they're not above it.
Jackson has two years left on his contract and is on a mission to liberate his beloved triangle offense from the confines of the early 2000s. He no longer has the time to work through resistance. It's easier to displace it. 
Even then...the Clippers? Their best offer for Anthony, a soon-to-be 33-year-old on the decline, will be underwhelming at best. There is only one feasible scenario in which they successfully poach a player of Porzingis' value from New York: a Blake Griffin sign-and-trade.
Twenty-nine of 30 general managers/presidents would balk at the framework of a deal that sends Anthony and Porzingis to Hollywood for a return headlined by the 28-year-old, injury-prone Griffin. The lone exception might be in New York.
Griffin's back-to-the-basket moves and passing ability make him an ideal fit for the triangle. Where Porzingis is more outside-in, Griffin's inside-out. Jackson might appreciate that—the same way he reveled in Porzingis eschewing three-pointers during his regular-season finale.

But there's a fundamental flaw in this theory: Sign-and-trades require three sets of approval. There's the Knicks and Clippers, and then Griffin himself. There's no financial incentive to these deals anymore. Griffin cannot get a fifth year, so he genuinely must want to play for the Knicks.
And why would he want to do that? They're a billboard for disorder, and the most appealing reasons to play for them, Anthony and Porzingis, would be shipped to the team he's leaving.
To the Knicks' credit, if they were shopping Porzingis, they could do much better than this, and they know it.
Perhaps the Denver Nuggets dangle their best assets for a chance to pair Porzingis with Nikola Jokic. Maybe the Boston Celtics give up a Brooklyn Nets pick and something/someone else. Would the Phoenix Suns trade Dragan Bender and this year's pick? Do the Los Angeles Lakers build an offer around whomever they select (if they keep the pick) and/or one of their youngsters?
For as much as Jackson is trying validate himself and his ideals now, even he has to realize Griffin is hardly the ceiling on a Porzingis trade. Anthony would probably already be in Los Angeles if Jackson was willing to entirely undercut the value of his best assets.
In all likelihood, then, this Twitter mishap is nothing more than noise. The Knicks do not have a Clippers problem.
They have a Porzingis problem of their own design.
They shouldn't be here, barely two years into his career, the subject of his silent rebellion. They've failed him by fostering an environment so toxic he deems his freeze-out necessary. 
Worst of all, they've done nothing under Jackson to prove they can win back Porzingis' trust, suggesting this war of attrition will drag on, past the summer and into the season, absent a meaningful resolution or middle ground.
  
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Team salary and player contract information via Basketball Insiders.

Now that the NBA's top free agents have had their say, the floor belongs to the teams.
When so much time is spent poring over salary-cap situations and grasping at potential roster upgrades, it's easy to forget not all possible additions are palatable ones. Big names are not always good fits. Players who seemingly address a need sometimes aren't what a squad actually needs.
Our salary-cap projections reign supreme when determining which player every team should give a hard pass to. Taxpaying units with starting point guards already in place shouldn't make Chris Paul the primary object of their affections, because duh.
We're also assuming the most fundamental level of common sense. Teams won't target free agents who aren't legitimate flight risks—for example, the Oklahoma City Thunder shouldn't bind their offseason hopes to getting a do-over with Kevin Durant.
Rumored options are tackled where applicable, but this is situation-specific more than anything—a comprehensive list of realistic possibilities that shouldn't be.

Assuming the Atlanta Hawks want Tim Hardaway Jr. and Paul Millsap to stick around, they'll be operating as a capped-out team. That doesn't give them much to use on a backup point guard.
Atlanta will have the non-taxpayer mid-level exception, which, at a projected $8.4 million, per Real GM, is nothing special—particularly when it needs to reel in more than one player. Kris Humphries, Ersan Ilyasova, Mike Muscala and Thabo Sefolosha are free agents as well, and there's no chance they'll all come back.
Finding a cheap floor general is a must. The Hawks have tried getting by with Hardaway and Kent Bazemore acting as faux point guards in Dennis Schroder's absence, but neither is a long-term solution. And though restricted free agents aren't typically options for squads with no cap space, Michael Carter-Williams is a special case.
Four years into his career, he still doesn't boast a jumper, and his finishing around the rim is uninspired on good nights. It wouldn't be surprising to see the Chicago Bulls pass on his qualifying offer, making him an unrestricted free agent who can sign anywhere he pleases.
Teams will always rescue length. Good wingspans imply an ability to defend multiple positions. Carter-Williams will land somewhere, likely on a beggar's dime. It just shouldn't be Atlanta. The Hawks don't have the offensive spacing or overall depth to offset his interminable learning curve. 

Gordon Hayward is the presumptive target of the Boston Celtics' offseason affections. But they'll need a plan B if he re-signs with the Utah Jazz—the most likely outcome to his free agency.
Gifted with a clear path to max space, the Celtics' contingency options will no doubt include other superstars. And, well, the Blake Griffin-to-Boston drum has been banged on before; it could happen again.
Griffin is considered more of a flight risk than Los Angeles Clippers teammate and fellow expected free agent Chris Paul, according to ESPN.com's Kevin Arnovitz. Boston has Al Horford, but he works alongside almost any big. He spent ample time beside Amir Johnson this year and has jacked nearly 500 three-pointers over the past two seasons.
Horford's outside-in game, though, isn't enough for the Celtics to max out Griffin. He doesn't drastically improve their defensive rebounding and isn't a staunch rim protector. He hoisted 113 triples during the regular season, but that's the first time he's cleared 50 deep balls.
Suitors should be chasing Griffin with the intention of sticking him at center for protracted stretches. His offensive repertoire is no longer unique enough at the 4 to mask his struggles when defending in space.
As long as Horford is in tow, the Celtics won't have too many extra minutes at the 5 to throw around. If they plan on pivoting into power-forward pursuits, they need to target more complementary full-timers like JaMychal Green or Paul Millsap.

Andre Roberson previously checked in as one of the Brooklyn Nets' better free-agency options. They have gobs of cash to burn through, and he, unlike Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Otto Porter Jr., is actually gettable.
Chalk this up to Roberson's undefined market value. Caldwell-Pope and Porter will field max offer sheets that their incumbent squads will match; Roberson won't. 
Sources told the Norman Transcript's Fred Katz that Roberson turned down a four-year, $48 million extension from the Oklahoma Thunder last fall. His defense alone will fetch DeMarre Carroll money (four years, $58 million) on the open market, and offers will explode from there if certain admirers believe he can develop into a reliable—or even half-competent—three-point marksman.
Brooklyn seems like the perfect team to make that gambit on the surface. General manager Sean Marks is playing the long game, and head coach Kenny Atkinson has a soft spot for switchy wings. 
But the Nets have one lockdown defender with a broken jumper in Rondae Hollis-Jefferson. They don't need another—let alone one who would become their second-highest-paid player. More offense-friendly options like Tony Snell or even Tim Hardaway Jr. pose better fits.

Shedding two of their eight-figure salaries is the only way for the Charlotte Hornets to carve out meaningful cap space. Failing that, they'll need to hope the non-taxpayer mid-level can be parlayed into backup playmaking and shooting.
Signing a second-string point guard takes precedence. Charlotte's offensive output plunged by 8.3 points per 100 possessions whenever Kemba Walker stepped off the floor—the difference between a top-seven attack and 30th-place sad-sack. 
Ramon Sessions (team option) isn't the answer. Ditto for Brian Roberts. Briante Weber had his moments, but he's no second-unit lifeline. Charlotte needs someone different.
Darren Collison would be the ideal understudy if he were willing to take the mid-level, but anything under $10 million per year might prove too low for him. He's certainly out of the running if the Hornets are looking to split their spending power across multiple holes, in which case they'll need to rummage through the bottom of the discount barrel.
Brandon Jennings falls to that price point. He coaxed $5 million out of the New York Knicks this past season, before being waived, and would be lucky to match that in his next deal. He isn't moving the same since his Achilles injury, and his offensive efficiency, which was low to begin with, has plummeted.
Bringing him off the bench doesn't elevate Charlotte's scoring machine. He can't play off Walker as part of dual-point guard lineups, and it's too much work to hide him on defense. If he's the best the Hornets can afford, they're better off picking up Sessions' team option and/or scouring the trade market.

The Bulls will have max cap space, and then some, if they waive Rajon Rondo's non-guaranteed deal and Dwyane Wade declines his $23.8 million player option.
Ergo, they won't have that much cap space.
Executive vice president John Paxson said there's a "really good chance" Chicago brings back Rondo, per ESPN.com's Nick Friedell. That's suit-speak for "He isn't going anywhere." Wade's future is his own to decide, but he doesn't sound like he's in any rush to find new digs.
"I don't need to ring chase, but I can. It's a great luxury to have," he said, per the Chicago Tribune's K.C. Johnson. "Or I can be a part of passing down my knowledge to younger players. It's either way. Whatever I decide, I'm going to embrace whatever role I have on a team."
Wade would be good as gone if the Bulls made it clear they're dealing Jimmy Butler and starting over. But keeping Rondo suggests they're not. That, plus 23.8 million other reasons, should keep Wade in town another year.
Run back this core while carrying Nikola Mirotic's cap hold, and the mid-level exception will be Chicago's main avenue of improvement. That should be enough scratch for a three-point specialist, and wouldn't you know it, Nick Young wants to play for a postseason contender, per Shahan Ahmed of NBC LA.
Except, no. The Bulls' dynamic is fragile enough with the Three Amigos. Adding a character like Young to the equation is too much. Besides, he turns 32 in June. Chicago is nearing a rebuild, even if it's not next season, and Young isn't opting out of his contract without the promise of a multiyear deal.

Contrary to what we just discussed, let's say Dwyane Wade does explore free agency. Where will he sign?
There's not much of a demand for a 35-year-old guard who takes plays off on defense and doesn't stroke threes at high clips (outside the postseason). Choose his next destination based solely on money, and it could still take Wade three seasons to recoup the $23.8 million he's owed from the Bulls in 2017-18.
Testing the open market is, for him, akin to letting the world know he'll take a pay cut—at which point the Cleveland Cavaliers become a natural suitor. They tried signing him last summer, in no small part because LeBron James is one of his best bros.
Perhaps the time for a reunion will be right this summer. But the fit won't be.
Cleveland needs bodies behind Tristan Thompson, two-way wings and, depending on what happens with Deron Williams, a reserve point guard. Wade doesn't fit any of those descriptions. The Cavaliers can use him to pilot the second unit, a la Manu Ginobili, but he doesn't have the spot-up acumen to tag along in lineups with James and Kyrie Irving.
Pretty much any other option the Cavaliers have will be the better tactical one. Things change if Wade is willing to accept a minimum deal, but they have no business shelling out part or all of the taxpayer mid-level exception to a player they don't need.

Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban has made no secret of his team's foremost offseason goal.
"We'll have depth, but we have to get that one pass-first point guard," he said, per the Dallas Morning News' Eddie Sefko. "That's what we don't have."
Free agency will be the Mavericks' best chance at netting an impact 1 unless they're blessed by the draft-lottery gods. They can get more than $20 million in cap space by waiving Devin Harris and declining Dirk Nowitzki's $25 million team option. (Fear not, Dallas peeps. The Mavs would re-sign Nowitzki at a massive discount. That's been the plan since he signed this contract last summer.)
This isn't enough money to convince Stephen Curry that playing for the Golden State Warriors is a bad career decision. It does, however, get the Mavericks in a room with George Hill, Jrue Holiday and Jeff Teague. And Hill is the biggest flight risk on them all. 
Utah will have no reason re-sign him if Gordon Hayward bolts, and it has to worry about cannonballing into the luxury tax if he stays. A contract that pays Hill $20 million or more per year might prove too much—or too unnecessary—to match.
Hill's on-ball playmaking and off-action shooting fit almost seamlessly into Dallas' rotation, but he's 31. The tail end of his next deal isn't going to look good, and the Mavericks shouldn't invest in someone whose prime won't extend deep into the post-Dirk era. Hill's price tag should get a hard pass from them.

The Denver Nuggets have every free-agent option imaginable at their disposal.
Renounce the rights to Danilo Gallinari once he opts out of his contract, and they can afford max deals for any player with under 10 years of service. Ditch both him and Mike Miller, and they become one of the few suitors who can peddle full maxes to Kyle Lowry, Paul Millsap and Chris Paul—veterans with a decade or more of experience. Float Gallinari's hold while waiving Miller, and they'll still be able to target $15 million-a-year talents.
Every team outside Philadelphia would kill for this flexibility. But the Nuggets have no use for the middle-ground options. They need a star. It doesn't matter if his timeline isn't perfectly aligned with the rest of the roster. They have the head room and incumbent prospects to simultaneously compete and rebuild.
Retaining Gallinari, a non-star who will command star money, would be a no-no if they didn't own his Bird rights. Patrick Patterson falls into the same boat—only, unlike Gallinari, they can't go over the cap to sign him.
Nikola Jokic needs a more versatile frontcourt running mate. Gallinari doesn't provide the necessary defensive punch as a small-ball 4, Kenneth Faried doesn't have enough offensive range for the position and Mason Plumlee, like Jokic, shouldn't be guarding power forwards.
Patterson barely shot 40 percent from the field during the regular season, and his efficiency cratered in the playoffs. But he plays both ends of the floor, has canned at least 36 percent of his threes in each of the last five years and is a plus-minus superhero. Fred VanVleet was the only member of the Toronto Raptors with a better regular-season net rating, and he didn't even clear 300 minutes of court time.
Giving Patterson $12 to $15 million (or more) per year is fine for contenders seeking a finishing touch. The Nuggets aren't that team. Their free-agency investments should be limited to big-time names or big-time bargains, and no one in between.

Detroit Pistons head coach and president Stan Van Gundy knew this was coming. He bemoaned how much it would cost to re-sign Aron Baynes back in November, per Michael Scotto of Basketball Insiders.
Bigs who don't chuck threes aren't in high demand these days. It's hard to find teams who need a big at all. Sift through depth charts for every NBA squad, and there are few, if any, fixing to pay a skyscraper.
Cost will still be an issue even if Baynes comes cheaper than expected. Detroit must abandon his $9.8 million cap hold to operate as a non-tax team prior to re-signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope (restricted).
Van Gundy can technically keep Baynes if he doesn't have big plans for the full mid-level exception, but the Pistons have $41.3 million committed to Andre Drummond, Jon Leuer and Boban Marjanovic next year—all of whom, like Baynes, are best suited at center. Leuer is the only one of the four who can soak up time at power forward.
Adding Baynes' next contract to this ledger is fiscally irresponsible. Detroit should use whatever resources it has to acquire shooting.

There are times when you watch the Warriors and can't help but wonder how terrifying they'd be if someone better than Zaza Pachulia was jumping center next to their four All-Stars. Finding an upgrade is completely, totally, wholly unnecessary for a team this good, but still, what if it did?
Swapping out Pachulia for Tiago Splitter would have sounded great three or four years ago. Now? Not so much.
Splitter has missed 173 of a possible 328 regular-season games since 2013-14. The Warriors have done the injury-prone big-man dance before, with both Andrew Bogut and Festus Ezeli. They needn't take a flyer on another one. 
The Warriors have bigger concerns than shoring up the center spot anyway—like figuring out how to re-sign Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant (player option) without losing Andre Iguodala or Shaun Livingston. Plus, targeting another center would suggest they aren't able to afford JaVale McGee.
And we, the basketball community, aren't ready to entertain such an incurably painful departure.

The Houston Rockets won't have the cap space to go superstar-hunting without dumping a few of their sizable deals. Do nothing, and they'll have the full mid-level to dangle. Pass on their own free agents and non-guaranteed contracts, and they'll approach $12 million in buying power.
Either way, this offseason will be about maintenance. And there's always a temptation to add sweet-shooting frontcourt contributors when Mike D'Antoni is the head coach.
Omri Casspi wouldn't be a bad fit. He's shooting over 40 percent from beyond the arc since 2014-15 and excelled as a small-ball 4 with the Sacramento Kings in 2015-16. Signing him as relief for Ryan Anderson jibes with Houston's three-point-drunk offense.
But the Rockets have a more immediate need for combo wings who bolster the defense during those times when Anderson or Montrezl Harrell play center. Casspi isn't that, even though he can absorb spot minutes at the 3. Houston can try caging a higher-end backup 5, but spending money on another big when Clint Capela is eligible for an extension is iffy territory.
Justin Holiday, Joe Ingles, Luc Mbah a Moute, Patrick Patterson, Thabo Sefolosha—they're all better fits. Houston can worry about Anderson insurance later, if at all. 

JJ Redick is the perfect fit for the Indiana Pacers. They need to launch more long balls to unclog their offense after finishing 26th in three-point rate, and Redick clears 40 percent shooting on 400-plus attempts in his sleep.
If only he wasn't about to sign one of the summer's worst contracts.
League officials told the Los Angeles Times' Broderick Turner that Redick will elicit offers starting at $18 million per year. Shooting ages well, but damn. That's too much to pay for someone who turns 33 in June and couldn't be a true difference-maker in the Clippers' first-round loss to the Jazz.
"Redick's turnover percentage was higher than his usage rate, a shocking development for a player who's rarely in position to cough up the ball at all," Vice Sports' Michael Pina wrote. "He attempted less than half as many shots per 36 minutes compared to last year's playoffs, and shot 38 percent from the floor. One series doesn't make or break any player, but Redick turns 33 in June and he isn't getting any quicker. He's undersized and was, for the first time in recent memory, an outright defensive liability against the Jazz."
Indiana can come close to hitting Redick's predicted salary by replacing all its non-guaranteed deals with minimum holds. Renounce C.J. Miles' Bird rights (player option), and there will be room to spare. But Miles, 30, is younger, and the Pacers shouldn't tie any part of their payroll to costly add-ons until Paul George's future is settled.
Strike a deal to dump Monta Ellis' and/or Al Jefferson's contracts, and that changes. For now, the Pacers must err on the side of caution—or at least not total recklessness.

Cap space is a foreign luxury to the Clippers. Keep the band together, blow it up, toe the line in between the two—it doesn't matter.
Let Blake Griffin, Luc Mbah a Moute and JJ Redick all walk, and the Clippers still don't have cap space. They're stuck. Staying a on treadmill is the only option that doesn't end with them bottoming out while barren of building blocks.
That severely limits what head coach and president Doc Rivers can do to improve his team. And that's if he's given the chance. He'll need to enact damage control if Mbah a Moute and Redick, the two biggest flight risks, price themselves out of Los Angeles.
Mbah a Moute's situation is particularly troublesome. The Clippers own his Early Bird rights and can only offer him 104.5 percent of this past season's average salary before dipping into cap space they won't have. If he leaves, they lose their best perimeter defender and a viable three-point threat.
And that brings us to Jeff Green. Rivers coached him in Boston and gave up a first-round pick to rent him in 2015-16. His name will pop up as an Mbah a Moute replacement or backup. He won't come close to matching the $15 million he made with the Orlando Magic and might be willing to accept a chunk of the taxpayer mid-level to reunite with Doc.
It's on Rivers to make sure that doesn't happen. Green is, at best, a lateral move from Wesley Johnson, who the Clippers have under contract and don't play. They shouldn't pay someone else who invariably won't live up to his deal—regardless of how much it's worth.

Between Luol Deng, Brandon Ingram, Larry Nance Jr. and Julius Randle, the Los Angeles Lakers' best options at power forward combined for two made three-pointers per game.
Nikola Mirotic averaged 1.8 long-range makes on his own. And that was for a Bulls team that couldn't stretch the floor if Jimmy Butler's loyalty depended on it.
If Lakers head honcho Luke Walton can get Nick Young into All-Star Weekend's Three-Point Contest, imagine what he could do with Mirotic, who shot 43.5 percent from downtown through his last 16 regular-season outings.
Actually, don't. You'll start to yearn. And Mirotic won't come cheap. The Lakers have to offer enough for the Bulls to bail on matching, and while they have the scratch to force a tough decision, lavishing Mirotic with a long-term deal this summer compromises their flexibility in 2018, when Paul George (player option) is a free agent.
Any expensive additions this year must be made with that in mind. So unless the Lakers are resigned to mortgaging the farm for George via trade or confident they can pawn off Deng or Timofey Mozgov on another team, they shouldn't cut into next summer's cash flow to sign a non-superstar.

Forget actual cap space. The Memphis Grizzlies will be lucky to evade the luxury tax if they're planning to run it back with the current nucleus.
Inking Vince Carter and Zach Randolph to salaries significantly less than their holds ($8.1 million and $15.5 million, respectively) would allow the Grizzlies to ferry pre-contract hits for Tony Allen ($10.5 million) and JaMychal Green ($2.8 million) while functioning as a non-taxpayer. And that, in turn, gives them the full mid-level exception to address what Chandler Parsons did not: a dearth of zing on the wings.
Noticeably impactful players aren't signing for $8.4 million per year. Memphis would count itself as beyond fortunate to obtain Luc Mbah a Moute at that rate, so a bargain-bin exploration is inevitable.
Tyreke Evans flashed a 43.8 percent three-point clip and quality ball-handling after being traded from the New Orleans Pelicans to the Kings on Feb. 20. He should fall right into the Grizzlies' price range. But his outside shooting isn't a given, and Memphis isn't flush with other long-range assassins who open up passageways for drives.
On top of that, and perhaps most importantly, the Grizzlies are financially bound to one wing with a history of knee problems. Two is overkill. Their search for a system-friendly Rudy Gay should lead them elsewhere.

Barring any unforeseen hiccups, per the Miami Herald's Barry Jackson, the Miami Heat expect the final two years and $52.1 million left on Chris Bosh's pact to be purged from their ledger in time for an offseason spending spree.
Waiving Wayne Ellington's non-guaranteed salary gives team president/free-agent whisperer Pat Riley more than $37 million to play with while toting all must-keep contract holds and exercising any necessary options. Though he indicated at his end-of-season presser the focus will be on re-signing incumbents, such as James Johnson, we know better.
Give Riley cap space, and he'll eye stars, even if his overtures fly under the radar. And Serge Ibaka has already piqued the Heat's attention. They were among those who tried to trade for him before the Magic shipped him north.
The Raptors wouldn't have forked over Terrence Ross and a pick for Ibaka if they didn't intend to re-sign him. But after getting swept by the Cavaliers, they also aren't in a position to write blank checks. If the Heat come in at or around Ibaka's max ($30.3 million in year one), he'll in all likelihood be theirs—which would be a mistake.
Ibaka is a respectable spot-up shooter and not much more. His shot-blocking doesn't always translate to rim protection, he can't switch pick-and-rolls and an offense that leans on him to put the ball on the floor is begging for disaster.
Pairing him with Hassan Whiteside is appealing for shot-swatting theater, but the two instantly form the league's worst passing frontcourt. If Riley is looking to deviate from his "Take care of our own" missive, combo wings or switchy power forwards should top his wish list. Investing in a 27-year-old who, by all reasonable metrics, has peaked and needs to exclusively play center doesn't do the Heat any favors.

The Milwaukee Bucks won't enter the offseason with cap space if Greg Monroe returns for the last year of his deal. And if he opts out, they need Spencer Hawes to follow suit for it to matter.
Monroe just wrapped a fantastic 2016-17 campaign, during which he provided a survival blueprint for other bigs who don't shoot like Dirk Nowitzki or protect the house like Rudy Gobert. He became a floor-spacer thanks to his screens; blossomed into a capable rim-runner; dropped pretty passes; crowded opposing ball-handlers before they could beat him off the dribble; and continued to dabble in post-up artistry.
Still, no team is giving him the $17.9 million he's owed next season. There's a surplus of 5s around the league, and he's not the ideal frontcourt addition. It'll take him two years to make up the dough he'll be leaving behind, and new three- or four-season contracts probably won't average enough annual money to make free agency a worthwhile venture.
So the Bucks will be left with the mid-level exception and the need for a spacier 4. Jabari Parker's ACL injury leaves Mirza Teletovic almost on his own, with Thon Maker to fill in the gaps. Hawes will pitch in as well if he stays, but the defensive trade-off isn't worth his shallow offensive arsenal.
It's easy to see how Ersan Ilyasova could fit. He buries enough triples to pull defenders out of Giannis Antetokounmpo's path, and his off-the-dribble game is further along than that of Hawes or Teletovic. And in the age where stretch 4s are the standard rather than a luxury, Ilyasova shouldn't cost too much.
But Parker will eventually re-enter the fold, if not next season then in 2018-19. Going on 30, Ilyasova will be after a long-term agreement. At no point—not even for a year—should the Bucks pay for him, Teletovic and the new deal Parker will be owed next summer in restricted free agency.

Standing pat gives the Minnesota Timberwolves more than $10.5 million to toss at free agents. That number climbs above $22 million if they renounce Shabazz Muhammad (restricted) and Brandon Rush.
Muhammad should absolutely be gone. He catches fire from three-point range for weeks a time, but his bouts with cruddy defense, ill-advised shot attempts and aversions to passing don't jell with what Minnesota wants to do (win). 
Tim Hardaway Jr. is essentially the souped-up version of Muhammad—a so-so shooter progressing as both a playmaker and defender. Atlanta has the right to match any deal he receives, but he's not Otto Porter Jr.-level unobtainable.
Signing him to a four-year, $58 million offer sheet gives the Hawks something to think about—and probably balk at. But the Timberwolves should feel the same way. Hardaway isn't a defensive upgrade who equips them with the ability to harass three-point shooters, and they must take into account other upcoming expenses.
Zach LaVine and Andrew Wiggins are extension-eligible. Karl-Anthony Towns is only a year behind them. They'll all be on new, likely max deals by 2019-20. 
Take on eight-figure salaries past that point, and the Timberwolves better be sure they're getting a star or someone who renders LaVine or Wiggins dispensable. Hardaway does neither. Minnesota has to be more selective about adding wing depth.

Rudy Gay will opt out of his contract, according to ESPN.com's Marc J. Spears, a decision that should catch the attention of teams trying to flesh out rosters on the cheap.
Hey, New Orleans Pelicans.
Or rather: Nothing to see here, Pellies.
Gay won't come close to bagging the $14.3 million salary he's leaving behind. He's on the wrong side of 30 and working his way back from a torn Achilles tendon. But he splashed in 38.4 percent of his catch-and-shoot threes this season, which accounted for almost one-fifth of his looks, and he shouldn't give up too much on defense post-recovery as a small-ball 4—a combination sure to attract teams in the market for top-level complements who don't break the bank.
The Pelicans will be that exact kind of suitor if they plan to retain Jrue Holiday. With Solomon Hill being an offensive wild card, they need someone to swish triples while playing off DeMarcus Cousins and Anthony Davis. But they also don't have the time to mess around.
Cousins is a free agent after next season, and the Pelicans have to make a good second impression. Gay may not be ready to start the year after going down in January, and even if he follows the Wesley Matthews timeline, New Orleans won't have enough minutes at power forward to rationalize this dice roll.

Derrick Rose shouldn't be in New York. The Knicks should know better after enduring yet another lost season. 
Alas, these are the Knicks. The assumption is they know nothing until they prove to know anything. And Phil Jackson had more kind words for Rose than Carmelo Anthony or Kristaps Porzingis during his year-end press conference, because of course he did.
Let's make one thing clear: Rose alone is not responsible for New York's latest tire fire. But he isn't someone it should rebuild or retool around. He doesn't have the three-point range or off-ball faculties to work within the triangle offense, and his defense is bad enough to get the executive who signs him fired.
Jackson is inoculated against the wrath of owner James Dolan for another two years—the length remaining on his contract. But Rose has shown he doesn't move the needle. He never developed a good rapport with Porzingis, the should-be cornerstone—who, per ESPN.com's Ian Begley, wants to stay in New York—and the Knicks would be consigning themselves to more of the same if they're unable to move Anthony over the offseason.
Turning their projected top-seven pick into a point guard is more conducive to the long game. If Jackson decides he wants a veteran running the show, there's free agency. He won't get within sniffing distance of Kyle Lowry or Chris Paul, but the Knicks can muster $20 million in space by deep-sixing most of their contract holds—enough money to buy them a better alternative to Rose.

This has nothing to do with Taj Gibson. He proved to be a valuable addition at the trade deadline—rebounding, screen-setting grit that furthered the Oklahoma City Thunder's bullish play style.
Gibson eventually played his way into the starting five over rookie Domantas Sabonis. The resulting lineup posted a league-best defensive rating, grabbed 34.5 percent of its own misses and pummeled opponents by 11.8 points per 100 possessions.
“There's gonna be teams out there, but you never know what's gonna happen,” Gibson said after the Thunder were bounced from the playoffs, per the Oklahoman's Ryan Aber and Brett Dawson. “Anything can happen. But I wanted to let [general manager] Sam [Presti] know I wanted to be here.”
Money is the sole reason Gibson wouldn't—and shouldn't—be back in Oklahoma City.
Renouncing Gibson's $13.5 million cap hold allows the Thunder to work outside the luxury tax. They'll somersault past the $121 million threshold if they re-sign Andre Roberson, but in the meantime, before he agrees to terms, they'll have the $8.4 million mid-level exception rather than the $5.2 million taxpayer's version.
That $3 million difference matters for a team in the market for additional shooting and a secondary playmaker. The Thunder placed dead last in wide-open three-point efficiency during the regular season, and it's unclear if Victor Oladipo is the right person to conduct the offense when Russell Westbrook is recharging via outlets and USB ports. (To Oladipo's credit, he was never given enough time to play independent of Westbrook.)
Re-signing Gibson perpetuates an excess of size. Oklahoma City is paying almost $40.4 million next season to Steve Adams and Enes Kanter; the latter must be sent elsewhere to justify keeping Gibson. Otherwise, Sabonis is younger, cheaper and needs more reps to develop.

Paul Millsap's name was one of many "Hybrid Free Agency" options listed on the Magic's now-infamous whiteboard. And, similarly, he is one of many targets they should avoid. He stands out not because of his play style or age, but because of how much he'll cost.
With 11 years of experience under his belt, Millsap is eligible for a max deal that starts at 35 percent of next season's salary cap—close to $35.4 million against a $101 million ceiling. Manufacturing that much coin will be a pain.
Left alone, the Magic's offseason purse stretches almost $16 million deep. Get a taker for D.J. Augustin's $7.3 million salary, and they're at $23 million—more than $10 million shy of Millsap's max.
Other suitors can try selling Millsap on a cheaper deal. Orlando isn't one of them. He won't leave Atlanta to play for a rebuilding squad at a discount. And since Bismack Biyombo remains immovable, one of Terrence Ross or Nikola Vucevic also has to go for Orlando to enter Millsap territory.
Auctioning off genuine assets for cap space is never safe. For the Magic, it's stupid. They'll still be left with Aaron Gordon and Biyombo if Vucevic is dealt. Maxing out a power forward would be basketball malpractice—especially when Gordon is extension-eligible.

Kyle Lowry is from Philadelphia. The Philadelphia 76ers should have more cap space than any other team. So, naturally, it took all of three seconds after Lowry's season ended for people to connect the dots.
Sources told Philly.com's Keith Pompey the point guard "has been interested in playing for the Sixers for some time," and that the team has long "planned to offer" him a "lucrative" contract when he reaches free agency.
This makes no sense. Zero. Zilch. Zip-a-dee-doo-dah.
Lowry is 31. He told reporters winning a ring is "all that drives me." Why would he sign with the rebuilding Sixers? For the nostalgia? There's an app for that (probably).
And why would the Sixers want to sign him? They plan to try Ben Simmons at the 1, and Lowry's max will run them over $35 million per year. Sure, they'll have more than $55 million in space if they show Sergio Rodriguez the door. But that's not a license to overspend on someone who doesn't remotely fit the team's timeline.
Philly's primary objective should be poaching young wings who can play off Simmons and Joel Embiid. If Jrue Holiday is down for a reunion, he's young enough, going on 27, to join the cause. Under no circumstances, though, should maxing out a floor general on the back end of his prime be an option—not even if it's in the name of a homecoming.

The Phoenix Suns need a wing, and fortunately for them, they'll have money to get one. They'll get more than $11 million to spend without doing anything and can push that wiggle room past $20 million by waving goodbye to Alex Len (restricted).
Granted, it's unlikely the Suns need that much money. They don't have the postseason ceiling to overpay tenured veterans, and younger options like Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Otto Porter aren't going anywhere. They can enter the Andre Roberson sweepstakes, but the prospect of manipulating the books only to end up with him is hard to reconcile.
Restricted free agents like Tim Hardaway Jr., Shabazz Muhammad and Tony Snell are happy mediums—minus Muhammad.
Inbound wings have to possess a defensive conscience. Hardaway and Snell aren't Klay Thompson and Kawhi Leonard, but they're both growing on the less glamorous end. Muhammad is at a standstill, and his status quo is, to be kind, underwhelming.
Phoenix's offense could use another three-point threat, and Muhammad is sometimes that. But that's the extent of his value to this team. He won't make defenses pay with kick-outs on drives, and his post-ups are maddening to watch. The Suns don't need an offensive weapon to bilk touches from Eric Bledsoe and Devin Booker; they need a wing who works around their games. Muhammad isn't it.
If the choice is between a dormant free agency and signing him, they should opt for dormancy.

It says a lot about the Portland Trail Blazers' cap and roster situation that we're here, in the year 2017, writing words that become sentences about why they shouldn't sign Roy Hibbert.
Really, the Blazers should stay away from everyone who isn't already on the team. They have 12 players under contract for next season, not including non-guaranteed deals for Pat Connaughton, Festus Ezeli and Tim Quarterman.
Sprinkle in three first-round picks and a payroll set to hurtle past $140 million, and they have neither roster spots nor money to spare. 
Trades are inevitable. Yes, plural. And if consolidation is a byproduct of those deals, the Blazers might decide to rummage through the free-agency dregs for a backup big. Ezeli is a goner, and they could use a fourth option to help out the trio of Ed Davis, Meyers Leonard and Jusuf Nurkic.
Roy Hibbert has a special place in Blazers history, as the max-contract signing that wasn't. They offered him a deal in 2012, when he was a restricted free agent, only to have the Pacers match. That's not why they'd take a look at him again, though perhaps it'd play a small part.
Portland's interest would be more about finding veteran's minimum additions who provide a trace of rim protection. And if that's the aim, general manager Neil Olshey can do better. Hibbert isn't for teams looking to play with any semblance of pace. The Blazers aren't speed racers, but they're not going to win games with a lead-footed bench.

The Kings' salary-cap situation remains fluid, but Rudy Gay's decision to opt out comes laced with clarity.
Removing his $14.3 million salary from the books hammers out close to $30 million in total spending power. Sacramento can push that to around $50 million by renouncing the rights to Darren Collison and Ben McLemore (restricted). That number can jump even higher, to roughly $60 million, based on what happens with Langston Galloway's player option and Anthony Tolliver's non-guaranteed salary.
Moral of the story: The Kings can go full Kings in free agency if they want. But they won't. The DeMarcus Cousins trade triggered a clear-cut rebuild not even they will senselessly accelerate.
At the same time, this is a lot of cap space. And the Kings need a point guard. Jeff Teague, 28, is young enough for them to talk themselves into making a bid. Jrue Holiday, who turns 27 in June, is younger, but Sacramento cannot compete with the fifth year New Orleans can, and probably will, offer him.
Teague strikes a balance between youth—insofar as being under the age of 30 is considered youthful—and attainability. The Pacers won't want to lose him for nothing when he cost them George Hill, but paying him is comparably hard to stomach if they're planning to steer into the rebuild Paul George's 2018 free agency is guiding them toward.
Sacramento should let another team foot the bill for Teague if he leaves Indiana. He adds wins to a squad that needs to bottom out next season, and his prime will have passed him by when the franchise is ready to compete again. This early into the rebuild, the Kings' cap space should be earmarked for players under 25, as well as unwanted contracts from market buyers willing to sweeten the pot with first-round goodies.

Do the San Antonio Spurs need to avoid anyone? They turned a 34-year-old David Lee into a competent defender and integral contributor to the league's second-best team. They've earned the right, through their in-house voodoo, to sign whoever they choose.
At one point, this included Thabo Sefolosha. He previously rated as a primary target. But that was before he fell out of the Hawks' rotation, ceding minutes and status to Tim Hardaway Jr., rookie Taurean Prince and, yes, even Mike Dunleavy.
Maybe San Antonio can unleash Sefolosha in ways Atlanta could not. He is among the best defensive wings in the game when healthy, and the 32.9 percent success rate he's notched on threes since 2013-14 should spike within an offense that seeks to engineer wide-open looks from the corner.
But the Spurs have two elite perimeter defenders in Danny Green and Kawhi Leonard. If they want to incorporate another one, they have Jonathon Simmons, their own restricted free agent, who is more than five years Sefolsha's junior.
Lose Simmons to a more aggressive bidder, and the Spurs will still have bigger concerns.
Patty Mills is about to get two-syllable paid in free agency, and Tony Parker is recovering from a ruptured left quadriceps tendon. Fortifying the point guard position—not to mention addressing Dewayne Dedmon's free agency (player option)—takes precedence over paying yet another player over the age of 33.

Paying the wrong player is the least of the Raptors' worries this summer—mostly because all of their money is already spent for them.
Serge Ibaka, Kyle Lowry, Patrick Patterson and P.J. Tucker are each slated for free agency. Toronto can't go wrong paying any of them, and yet it cannot afford to keep all of them.
"It will be hard for Toronto to duck the tax if it retains Lowry and Serge Ibaka, even if its other two core free agents—P.J. Tucker and plus-minus god Patrick Patterson—walk away," ESPN.com's Zach Lowe wrote. "Salary-dumping DeMarre Carroll was always the Raptors' get-out-of-the-tax card, but Carroll's decline has been so severe they would likely have to attach a first-round pick as a sweetener. Trading Jonas Valanciunas loomed as the alternate cost-cutting measure, but no one needs a center. The most likely Valanciunas deals would return someone else's unwanted big fella."
Patterson is more likely collateral damage than anyone. General manager Masai Ujiri can't spin losing Ibaka or Lowry for squat, and Tucker will be the least expensive of the four. As a proven three-point shooter who can make plays off the bounce and switch everything on defense, Patterson should fall closer to Ibaka than Tucker on the salary scale.
Replacing him with names plucked straight from the clearance rack is impossible. Marreese Speights is cut from a similar cloth...sort of. He has outside range and can create his own shots. But he's not the passer, pick-and-roll defender or emergency rim protector Patterson is on his best nights. 
Again: It's hard for the Raptors to whiff when combing through leftovers. But they should commit to slotting Carroll and Norman Powell at power forward more often, or just bite the bullet and re-sign Patterson, if they find themselves on Speights' bandwagon.

Depth became a deterrent for Jazz head coach Quin Snyder. He was able to grind out a relatively consistent frontcourt pecking order but never established a hierarchy at backup point guard.
Some nights he turned to Shelvin Mack. Others saw him lean on Dante Exum. There were times when Exum, Mack and Raul Neto all received spin. That can't happen next season. It doesn't matter whether George Hill returns. Utah needs to give Exum, a top-five prospect, a chance to play.
"You can tell he's not happy with how the season went," the Desert News' Jody Genessy wrote of Exum's exit presser. "It felt like he was giving partial answers and holding back what he really felt."
Balancing quasi-contention with prospect evaluation is hard. The Jazz are trying to win now. That'll be their selling point to Gordon Hayward and the reasoning behind dipping into the luxury tax for Hill and Joe Ingles. But Exum will be a restricted free agent next summer. The Jazz need to figure out what they have before giving him a raise or, more uncomfortably, pulling the plug on this experiment altogether.
That's not possible so long as Mack is around.

Look back at all the standalone three-pointers Bojan Bogdanovic drained after joining the Washington Wizards, and you'll hate this selection. But there is no alternative.
Carrying the cap holds for Bogdanovic and Otto Porter Jr. won't immediately drag the Wizards into the luxury tax. They can function like a non-taxpayer, with full use of the mid-level exception, before meeting the $121 million barrier.
And once they hit it, they'll roll through it.
Porter's max should run about $25.3 million. Tack that on to the mid-level and, conservatively, $10 million per year for Bogdanovic, and Washington nears $140 million in salary obligations—and that's if the Wizards are done with the Trey Burke experiment.
Diving that far into the luxury tax for a nucleus incapable of getting past the Cavaliers is a tough pill to swallow. It'd be easier to digest if Bogdanovic were a plus stopper at the 4, but the Wizards' defensive rating has tumbled to league-worst levels, through both the regular season and playoffs, whenever he subs in for Markieff Morris.
Spot-up shooting is replaceable when John Wall runs your offense, and Kelly Oubre Jr. has shown signs of being ready for a larger role, particularly on defense. Throw in Washington's would-be tax bill, and Bogdanovic, out of necessity, becomes expendable at his market value. 
     
Dan Favale covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter (@danfavale) and listen to his Hardwood Knocks podcast co-hosted by B/R's Andrew Bailey.
Stats courtesy of Basketball Reference or NBA.com. Team salary and player contract information via Basketball Insiders.

The Washington Wizards will attempt to keep the home team unbeaten and stave off elimination in this second-round series against the Boston Celtics as solid favorites for Game 6 on Friday.
The Celtics kept the perfect record of the hosts intact both straight up and against the spread with a 123-101 rout of the Wizards in Game 5 on Wednesday as four-point chalk.
     
Point spread: The Wizards opened as 5.5-point favorites; the total is at 216, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Line updates and matchup report.
NBA betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 116.5-109.0, Wizards (NBA picks on every game)
      
Why the Celtics can cover the spread
Sooner or later, there has to be a close game in this series, right? Boston was not competitive in Games 3 and 4 at Washington but struck back in Game 5 with the team's third double-digit victory to take a 3-2 series lead. The Celtics did not need a monster performance from point guard Isaiah Thomas either, although he was still aggressive and made 6-of-7 shots from the free-throw line en route to scoring 18 points.
Avery Bradley led the way with 29 points while Al Horford scored 19 and Jae Crowder added 18 to put four starters in double figures. Another team effort like that will get Boston to the Eastern Conference Finals and a matchup with the Cleveland Cavaliers.
      
Why the Wizards can cover the spread
The home team is not only 5-0 SU in this series but also 5-0 ATS as stated earlier, with every game decided by 10 points or more. The Wizards are also 4-0 SU and ATS in the past four home meetings with the Celtics, going 7-2 SU and 6-2-1 ATS dating back to 2014.
The backcourt of John Wall and Bradley Beal combined to score 37 points on 14-of-36 shooting (38.9 percent) in Game 5, but they should have no problem bouncing back at home. The duo scored 56 points between them in Game 4 at the Verizon Center, and they could top that in Game 6.
     
Smart betting pick
Boston played so poorly at Washington in Games 3 and 4, making it hard to believe that the team can keep Game 6 close. The Celtics know they have played extremely well at TD Garden and get to host a Game 7 if necessary. Meanwhile, the Wizards face a must-win situation and will again come through with a big win and cover to stay alive.
      
NBA betting trends
Boston is 7-2 ATS in its last nine games.
Boston is 4-2 ATS in its last six games on the road.
Washington is 4-8-1 ATS in its last 13 games when playing Boston.
     
All NBA lines and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.

CHICAGO — Quest Multisport was packed with coaches, scouts and general managers for the first big day of the 2017 NBA Combine on Thursday.
And though many of the big-name prospects just stuck to measurements and athletic testing, there were a handful of noteworthy performances during the five-on-five portion of the event.
A few players may have moved the needle playing in front of unfamiliar NBA executives. But there were also a few who hurt themselves. One high-profile prospect may have scared off teams without even touching a ball. 
Still, it was a successful day, both for evaluators and participants looking to improve their stock before the draft.

Day 1 Stock: Up
Rawle Alkins led all scorers with 17 points during the combine's first game. 
He opened with a three-pointer and pull-up jumper, which set up his driving the rest of the way. Alkins had a pretty hesitation move into a dunk and another take he finished off-balance going left. 
His strength and powerful 222-pound frame stood out on a second-half finish after taking contact at the rim.
Alkins even did some pick-and-roll ball-handling, and though not a point guard, he should have helped ease concerns over whether he can play the 2, as opposed to being an undersized wing. 
Being one of five players to register a max vertical leap above 40 inches was just a bonus.
It's still unclear whether he'll stay in the draft or earn first-round looks, but Day 1 couldn't have gone much better for Alkins.

Day 1 Stock: Up
Jordan Bell was the best player on the floor during the first half of Game 1, when scouts, coaches and executives are most tuned in. 
He opened with a mid-range jumper and then stuck to his strengths by making himself available inside and converting dump downs and lobs at the rim. He even dished out five assists, including a handful of pretty touch passes.
Just as he did at Oregon, Bell made his presence felt defensively as well, blocking five shots and closing out, staying active and alert.
He was quieter in the second half, but he did knock down a fallaway around the foul line, showing some of the improved skill level we saw during the season. 
Bell put a bow on Day 1's scrimmage by finishing with the second-fastest agility time at the combine and a 37-inch max vertical leap, the second-highest among power forwards and centers.

Day 1 Stock: Down
Harry Giles III unsurprisingly skipped five-on-fives. He would have been better off skipping athletic testing as well. 
Giles posted a disappointing 32 ½-inch max vertical, a number that says his bounce hasn't returned from three knee surgeries. And considering how much he'll need to lean on athleticism, given his raw, unpolished skill set, the lost explosiveness—his one-time bread and butter—is a major concern.
After averaging just 3.9 points in 11.5 minutes and then failing to come out a winner during athletic testing, Giles could be in jeopardy of falling out of the first round. 

Day 1 Stock: Up
Omer Yurtseven was the most effective pure center on the floor during Thursday's first game, scoring 14 points.
He consistently found himself in position to catch and finish, looking light on his feet around the rim. We also saw the jump hook, and though his game is rudimentary, Yurtseven passed the NBA eye test with tools, mobility, footwork and touch.
Don't be surprised if Yurtseven stays in the draft despite an underwhelming freshman year. With obvious long-term potential, he's the type of prospect a team could convince to leave school by promising guaranteed second-round dollars.
He could be better off developing in the Development League than North Carolina State.

Day 1 Stock: Up
Kyle Kuzma came out firing during Game 2 with three triples and a pull-up jumper in the first 13 minutes.
He didn't look like a player who had shot below 33 percent from deep for three straight seasons. 
Kuzma, who measured 6'9 ½", showcased the type of versatility NBA teams covet at power forward, having hit jumpers, made savvy passes and pushed the ball off defensive rebounds. 
He was a definite standout, particularly with many NBA executives in the house likely seeing him for the first time. Of all fringe prospects who participated Thursday during five-on-fives, nobody made a more convincing first-round pitch than Kuzma, Game 2's leading scorer with 20 points.

Day 1 Stock: Down
Melo Trimble got off to a brutal start to the 2017 combine after struggling mightily at last year's event. 
He finished with five turnovers and missed all five of his field-goal attempts during Thursday's first game. It got to the point where he struggled just to cleanly get the ball past half court and initiate the offense. 
With the shortest wingspan (6'2") of any player in attendance, Trimble may have fallen off the NBA radar in Chicago. 

Day 1 Stock: Up
Frank Jackson, who's kept his options open by declaring without an agent, could be one step closer to leaving Duke after a standout Day 1 at the combine. 
He finished with 13 points and four assists, having demonstrated both sharp skills and good decision-making.
Handling the ball for his team, he put pressure on the rim with hesitation and strong drives. Jackson generated some buzz from the crowd with a sweet Eurostep into a floater. 
He made Arizona's Kobi Simmons look inferior for most of the game.
As one of the youngest prospects eligible for the draft (turned 19 on May 4), Jackson emerged as one of Thursday's more intriguing five-on-five participants. He should be in line to at least draw consideration from teams in the 20s.

Day 1 Stock: Up
Svi Mykhailiuk generated buzz before his five-on-five game even started. 
Scouts and executives in the stands were quickly drawn to his stroke during shooting drills, when he drilled 20-of-25 NBA three-pointers.
Mykhailiuk, who combined to make 39.9 percent of threes as a sophomore and junior, backed up his warm-up performance with three more triples during Game 1. 
At 6'7 ½" and 19 years old (turns 20 in June) with one of the smoothest jumpers in the draft, teams could start to look past his boyish frame and limited skills. 

Day 1 Stock: Down
PJ Dozier declared for the draft, signed with an agent and then bombed Day 1 at the combine. 
He finished his game 2-of-11 with a team-worst plus/minus of minus-19. Dozier opened his scrimmage with a three-point make before struggling the rest of the way, looking noticeably uncomfortable finishing at the rim.
He had some bad misses throughout, and he struggled during shooting drills as well, making just 10-of-25 NBA three-pointers.
The first round no longer seems possible for Dozier, who's already given up the final two years of his college eligibility.

After the San Antonio Spurs closed out their series against the Houston Rockets on the road in emphatic fashion, the Boston Celtics will look to do the same tonight as they hit the road for Game 6 against the Washington Wizards.  
While the Celtics will be hoping for the same kind of result from Thursday, a winning margin of 39 points, they'll come into tonight's matchup feeling like they have enough momentum to carry them through to the Eastern Conference Finals to take on reigning champions Cleveland Cavaliers after an impressive 123-101 victory in Game 5.
But in this series, as it was during the regular season, the home town has won every game. In that regard, the Wizards will look to get back to putting the beatdown on Boston like they have for the majority of the series, and that includes some of the games they lost. 
Here's a quick look at the television and live-stream options for tonight's game to go along with my game prediction: 
The game will be live-streamed through WatchESPN for those viewing on mobile and tablet devices. 
 
Prediction
Wizards extend series to seven games

It's no secret that the Celtics have looked shaky not only in this series, but even dating back to their six-game series against the Chicago Bulls.
It's not often that a No. 1 seed gets written off this much so early on in the playoffs, but it's hard to look past Boston's glaring holes on both sides of the ball. Offensively, inconsistent perimeter shooting and a lack of individual creativity has haunted the Celtics.
Isaiah Thomas can drop 40 points on any given night, but as we saw in Games 3 and 4 in Washington, the Celtics break down offensively when Thomas can't get going. No other player in the starting five for Boston can create his own shot.
Al Horford is a much better distributor and spot-up shooter than he is a go-to post player, which would be fine if the likes of Jae Crowder and Avery Bradley could create off the dribble. Bradley played out of his mind in Game 5 in Boston's blowout win at home, but it's going to be difficult to score 29 points again against a team like the Wizards, especially on the road. 
Avery Bradley: It can’t just be Isaiah Thomas every night. If we’re able to understand that, the sky’s the limit for us. #Celtics
We all know Bradley is one of the NBA's premier defenders and is a good knockdown shooter, but will he able to cut to the basket and create easy baskets for himself now that Washington knows what the Celtics are looking to do when they double- and triple-team Thomas?
That remains to be seen. If the Celtics want to ride this wave of success, they'll have to free up Thomas and allow him to make plays for himself and his teammates without giving up too much on the defensive end. 
John Wall has scorched Thomas for most of this series and will go back to playing isolation basketball in Game 6 to make Thomas nearly unplayable like he was in Games 3 and 4. Game 5 got away from the Wizards rather quickly, and they weren't able to take advantage of posting up Thomas with the likes of Otto Porter Jr. when Boston switched on defense.
Here's what Porter had to say after Game 4, per CSN Mid-Atlantic:
"We watched a lot of film and just tried to figure out how we can make adjustments. Especially with Isaiah guarding me, or whoever is guarding me trying to attack that side. If they double-team me, then I need to look for a shooter. It was just a good adjustment that we made."
For Washington to win tonight, they'll have to go back to what they do best. And that means posting up Porter on Thomas as much as they can and put the ball in Wall's hands so he can get to the basket.
By driving into the paint early and often, the Celtics defense will have no other choice but to collapse inside to help Thomas or Bradley defend Wall, freeing up the likes of Bradley Beal, Porter and the returning Kelly Oubre on the perimeter.
The Wizards' best defense is a good offense. By limiting turnovers and fastbreaks by scoring points and forcing the Celtics to inbound on most possessions, the Celtics won't be able to break down Washington's half-court defense as they did on Wednesday, leading to turnovers and easy baskets like Washington had during that incredible 26-0 run in the third quarter of Game 4. 

Give credit to Boston in Game 5, though. They came out and put on a show in the first quarter, which was a first in this series. The Celtics made some good adjustments, played Thomas off the ball and even made him set screens for other players to keep the offense in rhythm. The Wizards certainly have their homework to do, and they don't have a choice but to come out and play hard tonight. 
Boston can still win this series and will look to do so tonight, but the Wizards have their backs against the wall and will be fighting for their playoff lives. Look for a dominant game from Wall to will his team to a victory while extending their playoff lives to a Game 7 in Boston.  

With 67 participants primed for drills, athletic testing, interviews and five-on-five action, the 2017 NBA Draft Combine tipped off on Tuesday.
Despite big names like Lonzo Ball, Josh Jackson and Jayson Tatum being conspicuously absent from the list of players at the event in Chicago, Illinois, there was still plenty of excitement.
A number of prospects boosted their stock for this summer's draft thanks to impressive performances all over the floor. A few of the biggest risers can be found below.
     
Hamidou Diallo
Because Hamidou Diallo didn't appear in a single game for Kentucky this season, he entered the combine in a shroud of mystery, one he burst through with a 44 ½" max vertical leap.
His jumping was so ridiculous that combine staff had to improvise with their measurement techniques, as seen in this picture from Bleacher Report's Scott Phillips:
Hamidou Diallo nearly cleared the vertical on his first try so they brought in stuff to make it go higher. Ridiculous leaping ability. s://t.co/BstSRKAobx
Combining that leaping ability with Diallo's impressive frame (6'5" with a 6'11 ¼" wingspan) makes him a very intriguing prospect at shooting guard. 
A creative team could boost his ceiling by casting him as a combo guard or point guard, though. Position-less basketball is a rising tide, but it's not hard to imagine Diallo still enjoying mismatches as a 1.
     
Donovan Mitchell
From one school in Kentucky to another, Donovan Mitchell could also benefit from eventually transitioning from shooting guard to combo guard or point guard.
But if he does want to stay at the 2, he now has some evidence from the combine to suggest he can handle the bigger matchups there.
"Among backcourt prospects, Donovan Mitchell was perhaps the most impressive physical specimen," DraftExpress' Jonathan Givony wrote. "Standing just 6'3 in shoes, Mitchell's 6'10 wingspan and 211-pound frame that carries only 5.9 percent body fat give him similar dimensions to a number of prominent NBA guards like Tony Allen and Victor Oladipo."
That 6'10" wingspan is the measurement that really jumps off the screen. It's equal to that of 6'10" Eric Mika's and within an inch of UCLA's TJ Leaf's.
    
Frank Jackson
Diallo impressed in the testing. Mitchell stole the measurements show. And Duke point guard Frank Jackson acquitted himself quite well in the five-on-five action.
Jonathan Givony and Mike Schmitz recapped the full-court action, specifically citing Jackson as one of the day's most impressive players:
"Jackson, who has yet to decide whether he'll sign with an agent, was able to get to the rim at will by way of his powerful explosiveness and strength (202 pounds) while sitting down in a stance and competing on the defensive end. Playing mostly on the ball, Jackson is an aggressive score-first combo guard who should be able to fill it up at all three levels with NBA spacing (even though he missed both of his triples on Thursday).
"Jackson's decision making, point guard skills and ability to shift gears could still use some polish, but he helped himself on Thursday and has the talent to potentially be on the fringe of the first round if he decides to stay in the draft."
Jackson entered the 2016-17 season as the No. 18 recruit (No. 5 point guard), according to Scout.com. Playing alongside ball-dominant combo guards Luke Kennard and Grayson Allen really stunted his production, though.
Performances like Thursday's could remind scouts why Jackson was ranked so highly before his freshman campaign. A few more in private workouts could get him back into the first round.
     
Others who Impressed
OG Anunoby appears to have the size to play either forward position, and maybe even little spurts of small-ball 5. He measured in at 6'7 ¾" in shoes, with a 7'2 ¼" wingspan. He was also 232.4 pounds at just 6.8 percent body fat.
Maryland's Justin Jackson was another wing/forward with impressive dimensions. He stood 6'7" tall, with a 7'3 ¼" wingspan, measurements very similar to Kawhi Leonard's.
Finally, Duke's Luke Kennard was a bit of a disappointment in terms of wingspan (6'5 ¼"), but his height should be a pleasant surprise. In 2015, Kennard's recruiting profile at Scout.com had him listed at 6'5". On Thursday, he measured 6'6 ½", plenty tall enough to survive at shooting guard. Given his deficiency in wingspan, though, this could be another prospect who would really benefit from cultivating point guard skills.

The Houston Rockets could hardly have suffered a more stunning end to their 2016-17 season.
First, they followed up a blowout home win in Game 4 against the San Antonio Spurs with a heartbreaking overtime loss in the Alamo City. Then, the Rockets came out flatter than tap water in Game 6 en route to a 114-75 blowout at Toyota Center, despite hosting a Spurs squad that lost Tony Parker to a ruptured quad in Game 3 and Kawhi Leonard to a sprained ankle in Game 5.
Now, Houston heads into the offseason with seven of its top eight players returning. That group includes James Harden, who bowed out with a season-low 10 points to go with seven assists and six turnovers before fouling out of his team's finale.
The Rockets, though, aren't nearly as broken as that last bitter taste may suggest. Racking up 55 wins—the third-most in the NBA—and sprinting into the second round in Mike D'Antoni's first season on the job counts as serious progress following the squad's debacle in 2015-16.
What can Houston do to not only maintain what it's built, but take another sizeable step forward? Read on to find out.

Normally, players aren't allowed to sign extensions in consecutive offseasons. James Harden will be an exception to that rule this offseason, along with fellow MVP candidate Russell Westbrook.
According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, the Houston Rockets, who renegotiated-and-extended Harden's contract for $118 million last July, can tack another $171 million over four years to the deal starting in 2019.
Why the exemption for Harden? As Woj explained:
"The league and union worked together on the Harden/Westbrook arrangement with the belief that neither player, nor the Rockets or Thunder, should be punished for honoring the spirit of the rules: encouraging players to remain with current teams on contract extensions.
"When those deals were negotiated to raise the players' salaries and add extra years to the contracts, the teams and players were unaware that the new CBA would offer such substantial financial rewards for waiting another year."
That doesn't mean Harden is guaranteed to jump on the money now. He'll be eligible for a similar sum come the summer of 2018, and as Woj added, he may be inclined to wait and see what the Rockets do to improve around him before committing to the team long-term.
Houston, though, has every reason to push for those assurances sooner rather than later. With Harden locked up, the team's front office can rest easier knowing it will have one of the world's best basketball players for years to come and sell that certainty to prospective free agents.

Time and again—including on a recent episode of Bleacher Report's Full 48 podcast—Rockets general manager Daryl Morey has said his goal, above all else, is to bring in as much talent as possible to help his team compete for a title. Houston's success around Harden's singular brilliance this season doesn't figure to dissuade him from that approach.
To be sure, the Rockets didn't lean quite as heavily on Harden as, say, the Oklahoma City Thunder depended on Russell Westbrook. According to NBA.com, Houston outscored the opposition by 2.8 points per 100 possessions when Harden sat during both the regular season and the playoffs.
Still, without another playmaker capable of tilting the court and drawing double teams, the Rockets' offense too often became one-dimensional when opposing defenses committed to bottling up Harden. And when he rested against good teams—like, say, the San Antonio Spurs—Houston frequently resorted to a fruitless game of hot potato among its remaining three-point gunners.
Having someone else who can get buckets (and offer some resistance on the other end) would help to keep Houston moving during the playoffs. The Rockets, though, aren't exactly in a strong position to snag that second stud. They can cobble together about $13 million in cap space by declining qualifying offers and non-guaranteed deals for players at the end of their bench.
That's not nearly enough to nab a big name in free agency. It's also not enough of a deterrent to keep Morey from finding other creative ways to add talent, as he has throughout his tenure in Space City.

Second star or no, the Rockets could use another big body up front. Nene's injury against the Spurs made that much clear.
Clint Capela can't pick-and-roll for 48 minutes a night. Ryan Anderson can stretch the floor with the best of them but offers even less resistance at center than he does at power forward. Montrezl Harrell, while effective as a finisher, is undersized for the position and not particularly effective outside of, say, five or six feet from the cup on either end.
Finding a big man who can set screens, roll to the hoop, defend around the rim and grab rebounds (the Rockets ranked 21st in defensive rebounding during the regular season, per NBA.com) shouldn't require a full-blown search party.
If there's any market inefficiency to be exploited in today's NBA, it's up front. The league is flush with bigs whose value has declined in a game that favors skill and shooting over size and strength.
Perhaps the Rockets can pluck Dewayne Dedmon off of San Antonio's bench or have Harden work his L.A. connections to land Taj Gibson or Amir Johnson. If that falls through, maybe Houston can target a bona fide pivot already under contract whose low-post skills are atrophying on a shelf somewhere.
Operating on the block may be anathema to how Morey and head coach D'Antoni want to play. But if the Rockets' flameout was any indication, having someone who can create scoring opportunities inside the arc might come in handy when the offense bogs down against good defenses.

After seeing how the Spurs spanked them, there may be some temptation to shift away from the style of play that worked so well in Houston for most of the 2016-17 season.
The Phoenix Suns suffered a similar crisis of confidence a decade ago after falling short of a Western Conference crown in three straight seasons while committing to their D'Antoni's Seven Seconds or Less style.
Prior to the 2008 trade deadline, Steve Kerr, then the general manager in Phoenix, acquired Shaquille O'Neal, the very antithesis of D'Antoni's stylistic vision, in a deal that sent Shawn Marion, the Suns' small-ball power forward, to the Miami Heat and moved Amar'e Stoudemire to the 4.
"We blinked, and we shouldn't have," D'Antoni told ESPN's Tim Keown.
That spring, Phoenix suffered a "gentleman's sweep" against San Antonio in the opening round. D'Antoni fled to New York shortly thereafter, leaving behind a Suns squad that subsequently slipped into the lottery.
It wasn't until Alvin Gentry replaced Terry Porter on Phoenix's bench and reinstated D'Antoni's spread pick-and-roll during that ill-fated 2008-09 campaign that things turned back around. The Suns went on to win 54 games in 2009-10 and crack the Western Conference Finals.
Conventional wisdom doesn't figure to affect these Rockets like it once did with those Phoenix teams. After all, Houston's identity aligns quite closely with the paradigms of modern basketball: shoot threes, get to the free-throw line, avoid mid-range jumpers like the plague.
A few tweaks on defense and, perhaps, someone who can score inside the arc could help—just not at the expense of the same formula that sparked this season's stunning turnaround.

The Rockets may like their core, but they shouldn't get too comfortable with it just yet.
Trevor Ariza will be an unrestricted free agent in 2018. So will Lou Williams. Capela and Harrell are both set for restricted free agency that same summer. Surely, Morey is already mulling what to do about those potential defections when they come due.
That may be the time for Houston to strike in free agency. The Rockets are slated to have considerably more cap space available for what could be a star-studded class. Russell Westbrook, Harden's childhood friend and former teammate in OKC, may well headline a group that includes Paul George, DeMarcus Cousins and native Houstonian DeAndre Jordan.
In the meantime, the Rockets can extend Capela and continue to plumb the depths of the basketball world for sleepers. Their 2017 first-round pick belongs to the Los Angeles Lakers as recompense for Williams, though they will have two second-rounders—Denver's and Portland's—to spend after sending their own to the Knicks.
Beyond that, Houston can do its usual song-and-dance digging up diamonds in the rough, be it from their D-League club in Rio Grande Valley, among what would be a potent pool of undrafted free agents and just about anywhere else in the world basketball players can be found.
That complete commitment to multimodality in team building has gotten the Rockets pretty far, albeit with a ways still to go in pursuit of another Larry O'Brien Trophy.
     All stats via NBA.com and Basketball Reference unless otherwise noted.
Josh Martin covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and listen to his Hollywood Hoops podcast with B/R Lakers lead writer Eric Pincus.

When Derrick Rose looked over the 2016-17 New York Knicks, he saw a super team on par with the Golden State Warriors. By year's end, the 'bockers had become the NBA's personification of the Crying Jordan meme.
They were old, injured, expensive and dysfunctional—pretty much everything other than competent. And that's before getting into the series of unfortunate events that played out off the court.
It'll take more than a summer of cold showers to clean this franchisewide funk, but at least the offseason brings some semblance of hope. They own a top-10 pick and two other selections in a seemingly loaded draft, and they have the financial flexibility to start addressing some of their roster flaws (or max out Rose because, you know, #LOLKnicks).
As long as they take steps toward an eventual solution, they can sell the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel. But their future will be clouded with uncertainty until they address these five issues.

What makes a leaky defense a fatal flaw? When the primary source of those leaks is roster composition.
"I don't think our guys aren't trying," head coach Jeff Hornacek said in January, per ESPN.com's Ian Begley. "Maybe we're just not capable of it. I don't know. That's what we're going to have to figure out."
New York is woefully short of solid-or-better individual defenders. To wit, it had just a single player inside the top 90 of defensive real plus-minus—budding backbone Kristaps Porzingis at 53rd overall, per ESPN.com.
But contrary to Hornacek's assessment, consistent effort seemed to be an issue for most of this team. The coaching didn't help, either. Neither Hornacek nor assistant Kurt Rambis pushed the right buttons, and the Knicks' constantly changing strategies always fell a step or two behind those of their opponents.
The finished product was a mess made for reality TV. Bottom-third marks flooded the stat sheet—last in defensive rebounding percentage, last in second-chance points allowed, 25th in efficiency, 24th in paint points allowed, 23rd in both opponents' scoring and steals.
As long as this unit is abysmal, the Knicks will likely rank the same overall.

Hornacek seemed an awkward hire by team president Phil Jackson given the latter's preference for all things triangle at the offensive end. When Hornacek was at his coaching best, he had the Phoenix Suns humming along with a modern attack built on pace and spacing.
But before Hornacek coached his first game in the Big Apple, he told reporters elements of the triangle would be present in his offense. Over the ensuing months, those elements were both minimized and magnified. Sometimes, the Knicks stressed the three-sided system, and sometimes they went heavy on pick-and-rolls and isolations.
Amid all the transformations, New York made the one misstep it could least afford: frustrating the new franchise face.
"I never felt at any point of this season we've never played how we've wanted to," Porzingis told reporters in March. "It's always been, 'Maybe this will work, or maybe this will work.' ... It's been a lot of confusion. A lot of stuff is not clear. So, it's hard to play like that."
The Knicks weren't dreadful on offense—tied for 18th in efficiency and scoring—but they should have been much more potent. They were one of only four clubs to have three players average 18-plus points.
Even if some of those scorers are gone, there's ample room for improvement if New York simply sticks to a philosophy. It sounds like the triangle will be that style, which is not ideal for today's game but still beats trying to do too many things at once. New York needs Porzingis, who skipped his exit interview, to buy its vision, which cannot happen without a singular focus.

Two years into his NBA career, Porzingis is already a history-maker.
His sophomore campaign—and Kevin Durant's 2016-17 effort—produced a previously unseen stat line of at least 18 points, seven rebounds, 1.5 blocks and 1.5 threes per game. Oh, and the 7'3" Porzingis captured this year's Skills Challenge crown too.
He's already establishing himself as a unique star, and he's not even being properly utilized yet.
"Porzingis' future is clearly at center, serving as a sort of hybrid version of Dirk Nowitzki, Draymond Green and Rudy Gobert: floor spacing and playmaking on offense, rim protection on defense," Bleacher Report's Yaron Weitzman wrote. "The Unicorn is everything a team could want from its big man."
Porzingis goes from mismatch to unguardable when he shifts over to the 5. The problem is, he only spent 21 percent of his floor time there this season. Why? Because New York's second-most expensive player, Joakim Noah, and second-most intriguing prospect, Willy Hernangomez, are centers too. And so is Kyle O'Quinn, who's signed through at least next season.
It's easy and accurate to say Porzingis and Hernangomez should get all the minutes they can handle, but almost $22 million of next year's payroll is tied up between Noah and O'Quinn. Noah's deal already looks like a sunk cost, but the Knicks should scour the market to find something of value for O'Quinn.

In the golden era of NBA point guards, the Knicks are on a decade-plus search for one. With all due respect to the stat-padding Stephon Marbury, those three weeks of Linsanity and the half-step-from-retirement Jason Kidd, New York hasn't had a functional floor general in forever.
This season was more of the same.
Chasson Randle ranked 50th among point guards in real plus-minus, two spots ahead of Rose. Each fared worse at the defensive end (60th and 81st respectively). The Knicks suffered from paltry playmaking all year, sitting 22nd in assist percentage and tied for 20th in points created by assists.
In other words, there is no internal answer to this perpetual problem.
"It's either through the draft or overpaying a Jrue Holiday or Jeff Teague," Bobby Marks of The Vertical told the New York Post's Fred Kerber. "I don't see any of the big [free agents] changing teams."
On the surface, that's not the most exciting course of action. But it gets very interesting if the Knicks strike lottery gold and move into the draft range of a Markelle Fultz or Lonzo Ball. And there's still plenty to like about Dennis Smith, De'Aaron Fox, Malik Monk and Frank Ntilikina if any of them are the pick.
If New York plots a different draft course, free agency has some stable options. Teague doesn't defend well enough to warrant a big investment (24th among point guards in DRPM), but Holiday (fourth) and George Hill (eighth) would bring stopping skills and the off-ball chops needed in the triangle.

It's never easy to make definite statements about the nature of an NBA relationship. But it really feels like the link between Jackson and Carmelo Anthony has gone from uncomfortable to unsalvageable.
Thinly veiled shots through traditional and social media are one thing. Maybe those could have been forgiven by Anthony, who, let's not forget, holds all the cards here with his no-trade clause.
But Jackson's open plea for a deal appeared as an attempted two-handed shove out of the Empire State.
"We have not been able to win with him on the court at this time, and I think the direction with our team is that he is a player who would be better off somewhere else and using his talent somewhere he can win or chase that championship," Jackson said at an April press conference.
The challenge, though, is somehow brokering a deal with Anthony's consent and without a pennies-on-the-dollar return. The package built around Austin Rivers in February, per the New York Daily News' Frank Isola, would have been about a two-cent return.
Anthony has to have more value than that. Poke and prod his game all you want, but he was still one of only 25 players to average at least 22 points. The 32-year-old might not mean much to the rebuilding Knicks, but a championship hopeful could easily envision him as a missing piece.
The Knicks need a resolution. And since Jackson has the support of owner James Dolan—who told the Michael Kay Show as much in February (h/t Ohm Youngmisuk of ESPN.com)—an Anthony deal might be the only way out of this mess.
   
Statistics used courtesy of NBA.com and Basketball Reference. Salary information obtained via Basketball Insiders.
Zach Buckley covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @ZachBuckleyNBA.

Lil B appears ready to make amends with James Harden. 
Shortly after the Houston Rockets were eliminated from the postseason Thursday night in a 114-75 rout by the San Antonio Spurs, The Based God offered to end the so-called curse he put on Harden years back: 
I apologize to James harden I'm ready to talk and end the curse... it's time to talk and be the leader everyone believes you are - Lil B
Lil B initially cursed Harden—who had 10 points (2-of-11 shooting) and six turnovers Thursday—in May 2015 after The Beard broke out his trademark celebration during the Western Conference Finals against the Golden State Warriors. 
The charade continued into the start of the 2015-16 campaign, when Lil B told TMZ he was angry that Harden posted a photo of the cooking celebration on Instagram. 
"It's disgusting ... he's still in denial ... he will pay for the blatant disrespect and no honor to the originator," Lil B said. "All he has to do is show love."
But now that Harden and the Rockets have been denied a shot at the Larry O'Brien Trophy once again, Lil B sounds like he's prepared to embrace a truce once and for all. 

BOSTON — Al Horford is a pretty even-keeled guy. "He's just easy, man," says Charlotte Hornets forward Marvin Williams, who played five seasons alongside Horford on the Atlanta Hawks. "Nothing ruffles his feathers." This might actually be one of the few things fans know about the reserved 30-year-old and four-time All-Star, which is why the following story, courtesy of Al's younger half-brother, Jon, might surprise you.             
Back when he was a high school kid in Lansing, Michigan, Al's family loved sitting around the house and playing games. Al's father, Tito, a former NBA player himself, had imparted his competitive spirit onto his offspring, and Al, who was born in the Dominican Republic before joining Tito and Tito's second wife in Lansing for high school, was a quick learner. Dominoes and cards were frequent family pastimes, but Monopoly was a particular favorite. After all, there were four children in the Horford household—a perfect amount to fight over ownership of various Atlantic City properties.
As Jon tells it, one day he, Al and a cousin were sitting around the living room playing Monopoly. Jon, who plays in the D-League now, was around nine at the time, five years younger than Al, and he says he remembers the scene vividly. There he was, the younger brother finally keeping up with the older sibling, getting every roll he needed, racking up the cash and assets, and yet, somehow, Al's stack of green and pink and yellow paper bills remained intact.
The battle raged on for a while, as Monopoly games tend to do, with this cycle repeating itself over and over. It didn't matter how many hotels Jon built, or how many of those spots Al landed on. Al just wouldn't lose. 
Then, toward the end of the game, Jon caught Al sliding his hand beneath an adjacent couch. Underneath it was one of the family's spare Monopoly boards. Jon examined the set. Thanks to Al's sticky fingers, chunks of cash were missing from the bank. 
"That's just Al," Jon says. "He's super competitive, the kind of guy that will do anything to win." 
Of course, this narrative—Star Player Is So Great Because He's So Competitive—isn't exactly an exceptional one. The world's sports pages are littered with stories of professional athletes professing their addiction to victory and of the not-always-legal lengths they'll go to stave off defeat.
Few, though, have gone about doing so the way Horford has.

It started in college, where he helped lead the Florida Gators to consecutive NCAA titles. It continued in Atlanta, where he helped transform the once-lowly Hawks into a playoff mainstay. And in this, his first season with the Boston Celtics, he's helped elevate his new team to the top of the Eastern Conference and brought them to within one win of the conference final. 
Everywhere Al Horford goes, his teams win. Could this be a coincidence? Sure. Or maybe there's something about Horford—something beyond his pedestrian career averages of 14.3 points and 8.7 rebounds—that brings out the very best in those he plays with. As Jon says, "He's the ultimate glue guy—the guy who does all the little things on the floor."
But, yes, that's another cliche, even if in this case it's true, even if Horford's affinity for team basketball, lack of a major flaw and ability to be in the right spot at the right time does seem to always instantaneously lift whatever team he plays on. 
Thing is, there's more to Horford adapting this role of being the ultimate glue than him just wanting to fulfill the dreams of Hoosiers-loving coaches everywhere.
"He does all those things because of how competitive he is," Jon says, "because winning is all that matters to him and he knows those plays are needed to win." 
You see, in a way, it's actually a selfishness that has driven Horford to perfect seemingly every one of basketball's secondary skills, which have served as the catalyst for his relentlessly selfless play. 
Al Horford might not bark as much as LeBron or scowl as much as Kobe, but that doesn't mean he doesn't want to win as badly as they and other stars do. It's just that long ago he recognized there are other ways for a player to dominate a game and so he perfected them, and in doing so, he morphed into one of the best, most underappreciated and distinctive basketball players in the world and a beacon for what prioritizing team glory over individual accolades looks like. 
So what exactly is it that separates Horford from every other would-be glue guy to step foot on an NBA floor? How is it that a player who often puts up middling box scores can rank third in the NBA in win shares in the postseason, according to Basketball Reference, trailing only one-name studs like LeBron and Kawhi?
"His ability to make people around him better has been very helpful to our team, obviously," Celtics head coach Brad Stevens told reporters Wednesday night following Boston's 123-101 Eastern Conference semifinal victory over the visiting Washington Wizards in Game 5. Not exactly enlightening, but it's blunt statements like those that at times are most revealing.
After all, Stevens had just watched Horford torch Washington with a 19-point, seven-assist, six-rebound, three-block effort. It was exactly the kind of performance Boston hoped it'd get from Horford this season after handing him a four-year, $113 million contract over the summer and beating out other playoff teams like the Thunder, Hawks and, yes, the Wizards, whose front office no doubt spent part of Wednesday evening wondering what could have been as they watched Horford dominate on both ends.
There he was, pulling down defensive rebounds and taking the ball coast-to-coast. There he was, using his 6'10", 245-pound frame to stifle the electric John Wall anytime he dared to wander into the paint. There he was, setting back-breaking screens and tossing pinpoint passes and leveraging the threat of his much-improved outside shot (more on that later) into wide driving lanes for his teammates all over the floor. 
"I think Al brings so much to this team," Celtics guard Avery Bradley told reporters after that game. "He's a veteran leader. He's been in this position before. Oh, man, I just really enjoy playing with him."

Bradley isn't the first one of Horford's teammates to feel this way. Which brings us back to the original question: What is it that makes Horford so good at turning an ability to execute the so-called little things into such game-changing plays?
"He really doesn't have any weaknesses," says Celtics big man Tyler Zeller. "He kind of does a little bit of everything."
OK, we're getting somewhere, but that's still not really answering the question. Maybe one of Horford's former teammates can provide a bit more insight? Williams, the former Hawk who's now with the Charlotte Hornets, is quick to point out that Horford always makes the right basketball play, be it the extra pass or sliding over into the paint to help stifle an opposing drive. But then he brings up something else.
"When you go over a scouting report, everyone knows where they're supposed to be, but still, not everyone does it every single time," Williams says. "With Al, though, that's not the case. He's going to be where he's supposed to every time down the floor, and that's contagious."
We can all agree: That stuff is great. Sharing the ball and playing a beautiful team-first style and all the rest. It's wonderful and inspiring and certainly has played a role in the Celtics' recent ascension.
But much of that talk overshadows just how skilled Horford is and just how perfectly his game jells with the new space-and-pace, guard-dominant NBA. After all, so much of what the Celtics do on offense—and remember, this was a team that had the NBA's eighth-best offensive rating during the regular season—can only be done because of what Horford is able to do.
Despite his height, Horford has always been a strong ball-handler and adept passer. This year, though, those skills have been utilized more than ever before, and even more so in the playoffs.
He's been Boston's second-most prolific passer—trailing only Isaiah Thomas in assist points created per game. He's drilled 53.6 percent of the 2.6 three-pointers he's attempted per contest (to go along with 15.5 points, 7.9 rebounds and 6.0 assists). He's also assisted on a team-high 11 of Thomas' baskets, many of which have come off dribble handoff play that allows Thomas, who not coincidentally morphed into an MVP candidate the moment Horford joined his team, to operate off the ball and that the two have perfected. During Game 5 the Celtics even ran a pick-and-roll with Thomas as the screen and Horford the ball-handler.

"What makes Al unique is that he's playing center, but he's such a great shooter," says Kyle Korver, who played with Horford in Atlanta. "That makes any action with him and Isaiah really hard to guard. You have to stick with both, and that opens up all sorts of lanes."
None of this came to be so by happenstance. For years, Horford has worked with a shooting coach named Larry Turnbow. When he was younger, Horford, while shooting, would cup the front of the ball with his off-hand. It took years to fix the flaw, and it wasn't until last year that Horford even began regularly launching shots from downtown.
"His outside shooting is the biggest improvement I've seen in his game," Williams says. "And him being able to stand out there and knock it down, giving the Celtics five guys on the floor who can shoot, it really changes the game." 
Turnbow also drilled into Horford the importance of hitting shooters squarely in the hands right above the waist, an area where Korver says Horford now excels. 
All the while, Horford's also been tasked with manning the Celtics' defensive back line, making him the rare player who can play like a guard but defend like a big man.
He evolved his skill set, at 30, into exactly what the Celtics needed to win.
And if that's not enough, don't be surprised to see him sneaking his hand under the couch to pull out whatever extra they need.
     
All stats via NBA.com unless otherwise noted.
Yaron Weitzman covers the NBA and other things for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @YaronWeitzman.

Kawhi Leonard will reportedly be ready to go for the start of the Western Conference Finals after he sat out the San Antonio Spurs' 114-75 Game 6 triumph over the Houston Rockets on Thursday with an ankle injury. 
According to ESPN.com's Michael C. Wright, Leonard will return to the hardwood after the Spurs held him out for Game 6 because they "decided they'd rather have him healthy for Sunday."
Leonard rolled his ankle in the third quarter of Game 5, and he proceeded to sit out most of the fourth quarter and all of overtime. 
And even though Leonard told reporters he planned to play in Game 6 shortly after the final buzzer sounded Tuesday night, the Spurs opted for a more cautious approach to buy him extra recovery time. 
That strategy paid off, and Leonard will now enjoy four full days of rest before Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals against the Golden State Warriors tips off Sunday at 3:30 p.m. ET on ABC. 
 

After Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant questioned the value of the NBA's predraft combine for top prospects, Kentucky Wildcats head coach John Calipari largely concurred with the assessment.
"He may be right. For the guys, if you think there's anything here that would hurt you, don't come," Calipari said Thursday, per ESPN.com's Nick Friedell. "If there's anything here that would help you, come. If you have to play to help yourself, come. If it doesn't help you [to] play, then don't play."
Calipari added that while he has never directed one of his former players to skip the combine altogether, he had advised some to decline playing in the five-on-five portion of the event.
Durant was more blunt in his take on the combine.
"Stay your ass home, work out and get better on your own time," he said, per ESPN.com's Chris Haynes. 
The 2014 MVP recalled how at the 2007 combine some strength coaches joked about his lighter frame and "were giggling with each other that I couldn't lift 185 pounds." Durant said that part of the experience was embarrassing.
The combine could provide a nice boost for players who are looking to move up draft boards, whether it's climbing into the lottery, the first round or the draft altogether.
For stars like Durant, who was essentially a lock for one of the top two picks in the 2007 draft, there isn't much to gain from fully working out at the combine.
In the cases of Markelle Fultz, Lonzo Ball and Josh Jackson—widely regarded as the top three players in the 2017 class—the combine can be a good opportunity to meet personally with front office personnel from NBA teams. Beyond that, there's little else they can do to impress talent evaluators.

Duke, Kansas, North Carolina, UCLA and Arizona each has at least a dozen players in the NBA, but would any of them stand a chance against Kentucky in an alumni basketball tournament?
With the NBA Draft Combine and lottery-drawing taking place this week, there has been a lot of hubbub about which teams various players could be suiting up for in 2017-18. But we decided to flip the script by trying to determine which schools are already the most well-represented in the pros.
Rather than just coming up with a starting five or trying to put together a full 15-man roster, we settled on eight players per team: a traditional starting five (if possible), a backcourt reserve, a frontcourt reserve and one final flex bench player.
Only 11 schools currently have eight players in the NBA—two of which (LSU and Michigan State) aren't able to make anything close to a legitimate basketball lineup. To get down to an eight-team tournament, we also had to cut Syracuse, which has no frontcourt presence and little to offer beyond Carmelo Anthony and Dion Waiters.
What follows are the remaining eight teams, listed in ascending order of overall supremacy. After meeting the teams and discussing their strengths, weaknesses and MVPs, it's on to the tournament, where we're going with the NBA's best-of-seven format rather than the NCAA's wildly unpredictable single-game elimination tournament.

PG: T.J. McConnellSG: Andre IguodalaSF: Rondae Hollis-JeffersonPF: Channing FryeC: Aaron GordonReserves: Stanley Johnson, Solomon Hill and Richard Jefferson
        
Biggest Strength: Perimeter Size
Though the Wildcats lack a go-to scorer, they are loaded with tall wings who have three-point range. With the exception of T.J. McConnell, everyone on the roster is at least 6'6", including 6'11" Channing Frye, who might be the most dangerous perimeter shooter of the bunch. They wouldn't be favored in any games, but the team-wide ability to both shoot and rebound could lead to an upset.
        
Biggest Weakness: True Big Men
With slashing guards and three-point shooting centers, Arizona is at the forefront of the positionless basketball revolution at the collegiate level. Thus, it's no surprise that their alumni roster is McConnell and a slew of small forwards. Unfortunately, the lack of a legitimate center means the Wildcats would be eaten alive in the paint by most of the teams in this tournament.
         
MVP: Aaron Gordon
A few years ago, this would've been a toss-up between Andre Iguodala, Richard Jefferson and Jason Terry. But with each of those guys well into the denouement of their respective careers, it's up to Aaron Gordon to lead the way. He's the only player on the roster who averaged double figures in 2016-17 (12.7 PPG), and he would be the one responsible for trying to slow down opposing centers, for better or worse.

PG: Bradley BealSG: Corey BrewerSF: Dorian Finney-SmithPF: David LeeC: Al HorfordReserves: Chandler Parsons, Marreese Speights, Joakim Noah
         
Biggest Strength: Frontcourt Depth
In David Lee, Al Horford and Joakim Noah, Florida has three big men who have averaged a double-double in the NBA in at least one of the last five seasons. Moreover, Marreese Speights has become a 6'10" three-point shooting phenom of a reserve, averaging better than 20 points and 10 rebounds per 36 minutes over the past three years. With the exception of Kentucky, you're looking at the best frontcourt in the tournament.
        
Biggest Weakness: Point Guard
Though the Gators have centers for days, they don't have anyone to get them the ball. Horford actually recorded more assists in 2016-17 (5.0 APG) than any other player on the roster. They have no choice but to make Bradley Beal the primary ball-handler, even though the shooting guard averaged about 6.7 points per assist this year.
         
MVP: Bradley Beal
He probably isn't the answer at point guard, but there's no question Beal is Florida's primary offensive weapon. Averaging 23.1 per game, he scored more points this season (1,779) than Florida's second- and third-leading scorers combined (1,663). If the Gators are going to knock off one of the top seeds in this thing, he needs to put on a show.

PG: Ty LawsonSG: Wayne EllingtonSF: Harrison BarnesPF: Marvin WilliamsC: John HensonReserves: Raymond Felton, Brandan Wright, Vince Carter
           
Biggest Strength: Veteran Leadership
While most of the teams on this list are relying on at least one young guy relatively fresh out of college, every single member of North Carolina's eight-man rotation is a former first-round pick with at least eight years of experience between college and the NBA. And with the exception of Vince Carter and maybe Raymond Felton, they're each still young enough that we're not forced to wonder whether they'd have the gas left in the tank to compete in this tournament.
         
Biggest Weakness: Frontcourt Prowess
Marvin Williams is a respectable power forward, but he's not the type of big man who can anchor a championship run. The same goes for John Henson, who has maxed out at 19.4 minutes per game and 14.9 points per 36 minutes in the past three years. They might hold their own against the likes of Arizona or UCLA, but it's tough to go deep without a dominant giant.
           
MVP: Harrison Barnes
Barnes came to be viewed as one of the weakest links among Golden State's primary players in recent years, but he was the star in Dallas this season, averaging close to 20 points per game. The combo forward would also play an important role as a secondary rebounder on this roster, particularly given the aforementioned question marks in the frontcourt.

PG: Mario Chalmers*SG: Andrew WigginsSF: Marcus MorrisPF: Markieff MorrisC: Joel EmbiidReserves: Kelly Oubre, Tarik Black, Ben McLemore
*Chalmers didn't appear in a game in 2016-17 due to a torn Achilles, but we're still including him as an active player. 
           
Biggest Strength: Frontcourt Size
Between the Morris twins, Joel Embiid and Tarik Black, Kansas has a quartet of legitimate contributors who each measures in at a minimum of 6'9" and 235 pounds. The MVP here lies elsewhere on the roster, but this is the first team we've encountered thus far on the list with at least three players who can carry the scoring load from time to time.
         
Biggest Weakness: Guard Play
Kansas has about a dozen big men in the pros, but where are the guards? Andrew Wiggins averaged 2.3 assists per game this past season, which was enough to serve as the most willing passer for the Jayhawks. Nos. 2-4 on the total assists list were Marcus Morris, Markieff Morris and Embiid. Kansas is lucky we were willing to stretch the rules to include Mario Chalmers, or it would be devoid of ball-handlers.
          
MVP: Andrew Wiggins
The No. 1 overall draft pick in 2014 has only gotten better with age, averaging 23.6 points per game in his third season in the Association. He has had the luxury of playing alongside a generous point guard (Ricky Rubio) and a dominant big man (Karl-Anthony Towns), but he still shines through as an elite small forward who can lead a team.

PG: Kyrie IrvingSG: J.J. RedickSF: Brandon IngramPF: Jabari ParkerC: Mason PlumleeReserves: Austin Rivers, Jahlil Okafor, Seth Curry
         
Biggest Strength: Quality Depth
With 22 players currently in the NBA, Duke would gladly take part in an alumni tournament with full 15-man rosters. As it is, the last guy off the Blue Devils bench (Seth Curry) averaged 12.8 points per game this season. They aren't loaded with all-stars, nor do they have a ton of professional experience. But at least there aren't any blatant holes in their rotation.
         
Biggest Weakness: Big Men
With Elton Brand and Carlos Boozer both now out of the league, Duke's list of frontcourt assets in the NBA is slim. Mason Plumlee has been a pleasant surprise, but he's not an all-star center. Jabari Parker has been an impactful power forward, but his young career has already been marred by injuries. Beyond that, it's Jahlil Okafor or bust, and he's looking like more of the latter after two seasons.
           
MVP: Kyrie Irving
Were it not for the point guard who played one-third of one season in Durham, Duke would barely qualify for the top eight. But thanks to Kyrie Irving, the Blue Devils are a contender to win this tournament. The four-time NBA all-star has averaged 21.6 points per game in his career and is one more round away from helping guide the Cleveland Cavaliers to a third straight NBA Finals appearance.

PG: Russell WestbrookSG: Jrue HolidaySF: Zach LaVinePF: Trevor ArizaC: Kevin LoveReserves: Darren Collison, Matt Barnes, Shabazz Muhammad
          
Biggest Strength: Small Ball
With more than 5,000 combined career made three-pointers, these eight Bruins would be more than content with being the run-and-gun team of the tournament. In fact, the two frontcourt guys (Trevor Ariza and Kevin Love) have accounted for more than 2,000 of those triples, meaning all five starters are plenty capable of teeing it up from deep. It would be fun to watch them put all five guys on the perimeter to open up the lane for Russell Westbrook to do his thing.
         
Biggest Weakness: Power Forward/Center
Love is the only true frontcourt player on the roster, and he is hardly a defensive stopper in the lane. He and Westbrook will corral plenty of defensive rebounds, but an opponent committed to pounding the paint could be a problem. It would then become a matter of whether the Bruins can drain enough triples to make up for their inability to prevent deuces.
         
MVP: Russell Westbrook
This one goes without saying, right? Westbrook just averaged a triple-double for the entire season and arguably should be voted the 2017 NBA MVP.

PG: Cory JosephSG: Avery BradleySF: Kevin DurantPF: LaMarcus AldridgeC: Myles TurnerReserves: D.J. Augustin, Tristan Thompson, P.J. Tucker
         
Biggest Strength: The Forwards
The one-two punch of Kevin Durant and LaMarcus Aldridge is the best small forward and power forward combo by far. It'd be hard to argue that there was a better player to come out of either the 2006 or 2007 drafts than these Longhorns who were selected No. 2 overall in their respective years. The Myles Turner and Tristan Thompson duo at center is swell, too.
         
Biggest Weakness: Point Guard
In fairness to Cory Joseph, he has shown marked improvement as an offensive facilitator in each of his six seasons in the NBA. But he's still a part-time starter who has averaged less than 5.0 assists per 36 minutes each year. At any rate, compared to the other teams that would be favored to reach the semifinals, there's no question that Texas is at a massive disadvantage at point guard against Duke (Kyrie Irving), UCLA (Russell Westbrook) and Kentucky (John Wall).
        
MVP: Kevin Durant
Much like Russell Westbrook at UCLA, this one is a no-brainer. Durant only appeared in 62 games and scored fewer points per game than in any season since he was a rookie, yet he still outscored every other Texas alumnus by at least 300 points in 2016-17. Aldridge, Turner and Avery Bradley will be major contributors, but the Longhorns aren't going anywhere if Durant struggles.

PG: John WallSG: Devin BookerSF: Michael Kidd-GilchristPF: DeMarcus CousinsC: Anthony DavisReserves: Eric Bledsoe, Karl-Anthony Towns, Julius Randle
         
Biggest Strength: The Paint
This is a downright ridiculous trifecta of big men. We're bringing Karl-Anthony Towns off the bench solely because DeMarcus Cousins and Anthony Davis have seniority, but it's impossible to go wrong. There were only three players taller than 6'9" who averaged at least 23.0 points per game in 2016-17: Davis (28.0), Cousins (27.0) and Towns (25.1). And Julius Randle (13.2 PPG, 8.6 RPG) is no slouch of a fourth frontcourt option for the Wildcats.
           
Biggest Weakness: Small Forward
Though Kentucky currently has 24 players in the NBA, only two are listed as small forwards: Michael Kidd-Gilchrist and Alex Poythress. You could make the case for a dual combo-guard backcourt of John Wall and Eric Bledsoe with 6'6" Devin Booker at small forward, but the fact remains that Kentucky has limited options on the wing.
         
MVP: John Wall
As great as the big men on this roster are, they have appeared in a combined total of four playoff games, almost exclusively putting up big numbers for teams with losing records. But Wall is a perennial all-star and the leader of a Washington Wizards team that has become a legitimate force in the Eastern Conference. He is playing better than ever before and would likely be the MVP of this tournament.

No. 1 Kentucky vs. No. 8 Arizona
The only area where the Wildcats from Tucson might have an advantage over the ones from Lexington is in the battle of the hyphenated small forwards. But even if Rondae Hollis-Jefferson has a better series than Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, Kentucky would basically have a permanent lay-up line with DeMarcus Cousins, Anthony Davis and Karl-Anthony Towns going up against Aaron Gordon.
Maybe Arizona takes one game if Andre Iguodala and Channing Frye both catch fire on the same night, but a sweep seems almost inevitable.
Projection: Kentucky in four
           
No. 2 Texas vs. No. 7 Florida
This matchup isn't any prettier than the previous one. Both the Longhorns and the Gators share a common biggest strength (frontcourt depth) and biggest weakness (point guard), but Texas holds a significant edge in both categories.
Though Cory Joseph is far from the best point guard in this tournament, at least he has experience running an offense, unlike Bradley Beal. And while David Lee, Al Horford and Marreese Speights are nice assets for Florida, they don't hold a candle to the Texas brigade led by Kevin Durant and LaMarcus Aldridge.
Projection: Texas in four
         
No. 3 UCLA vs. No. 6 North Carolina
Lack of conventional big men will eventually be a major problem for UCLA in this tournament but not in the first round. UNC's Marvin Williams and John Henson fare better against the Bruins than they would against the frontcourts of Texas or Kentucky, but it's not nearly enough to overcome the barrage of three-pointers from UCLA's entire rotation.
The Tar Heels find a way to protect the Dean Dome in games three and four, but they eventually succumb to the dominance of Russell Westbrook and Kevin Love.
Projection: UCLA in six
           
No. 4 Duke vs. No. 5 Kansas
If this series goes the distance, they might as well play game seven in a hospital ward. Mario Chalmers didn't play this year due to injury, and neither Joel Embiid nor Jabari Parker appeared in a game in the final two months of the regular season. As a result, it's tough to gauge what would happen if these rosters were put on the court today.
However, limited options at guard would figure to be an issue for the Jayhawks on both ends of the floor. Duke isn't the team best suited to stop the Morris twins and Joel Embiid in the paint, but Mason Plumlee and company would do a better job of slowing down those guys than Kansas' guards would do on Kyrie Irving, J.J. Redick, Austin Rivers and Seth Curry. The friendly rims at Cameron Indoor play the deciding factor in Duke's three-point attack.
Projection: Duke in seven

No. 1 Kentucky vs. No. 4 Duke
For as much as we would love to see this become an annual showdown at the collegiate level, the battle of alumni for these blue bloods isn't much of a fair fight.
Working position by position through the lineups, things start out innocently enough. At point guard, it's the No. 1 pick in the 2010 draft (John Wall) against the No. 1 pick in the 2011 draft (Kyrie Irving) in what is the most intriguing head-to-head matchup of the tournament. At shooting guard, J.J. Redick and Devin Booker would likely take turns catching fire. And Brandon Ingram and Michael Kidd-Gilchrist at small forward would possibly play to a draw.
But Jabari Parker and Mason Plumlee against DeMarcus Cousins, Anthony Davis and Karl-Anthony Towns?
Yikes.
Duke steals one game at home, but the series is never in doubt.
Projection: Kentucky in five
          
No. 2 Texas vs. No. 3 UCLA
It's Kevin Durant against Russell Westbrook in what is arguably the most marketable pair of adversaries in the NBA today. But there's a huge difference from what would happen if their current NBA teams were to meet in the playoffs. In this fictitious tournament, it's Westbrook who is surrounded by teammates adept at making it rain from three-point land.
As advertised on its team slide, Texas has the worst point-guard situation among the four teams in the semifinals, and it's not even close. In that area of the game, the Bruins would simply decimate the Longhorns. Cory Joseph and D.J. Augustin are nothing close to a match for Westbrook, Darren Collison and Jrue Holiday.
But could Texas close that gap with its frontcourt dominance? Westbrook and his pals would have a field day against Texas' guards, but the same goes for LaMarcus Aldridge, Myles Turner and Tristan Thompson having their way with Kevin Love and Trevor Ariza.
There's also the not-so-minor problem of UCLA trying to figure out how to deal with Durant, which ends up making the difference in this one. Zone defense becomes the best friend of the Longhorns in this series, provided the Bruins are unable to shoot at least 50 percent from beyond the arc four times in seven games.
Projection: Texas in seven

No. 1 Kentucky vs. No. 2 Texas
At long last, we have a legitimate challenger to Kentucky. Sort of.
Thus far in the tournament, the Wildcats have breezed through their opposing frontcourts. Heck, we could have combined Arizona and Duke into one 34-man roster and it still wouldn't have offered any resistance to Kentucky's freight train of big men.
This was to be expected long before fully investing in the research, though. No team could possibly hold an advantage over Kentucky's front line of DeMarcus Cousins, Anthony Davis, Karl-Anthony Towns and Julius Randle.
But Texas might be able to at least make things interesting with LaMarcus Aldridge, Myles Turner, Tristan Thompson, P.J. Tucker and Kevin Durant.
The bigger problem for the Longhorns is they have no answer for John Wall. Even if they manage to play to a draw in the paint, he is going to run circles around Cory Joseph and D.J. Augustin; circles that Durant can't make up for with his edge over Michael Kidd-Gilchrist.
Texas puts up more of a fight than any other team would, but it's kind of hard to win an alumni battle against a program that has produced 21 first-round draft picks since 2010.
Projection: Kentucky in six
         
Kerry Miller covers college football and college basketball for Bleacher Report. You can follow him on Twitter @kerrancejames.

The San Antonio Spurs helped head coach Gregg Popovich make history with their 114-75 victory over the Houston Rockets on Thursday night.
The win sealed passage to the Western Conference Finals for the Spurs, and it was the first time San Antonio defeated Houston in a postseason series under Popovich. The Rockets are the 14th different Western Conference team defeated by a Popovich-coached squad, the most in NBA history, according to Jordan Howenstine, who works in the Spurs' public relations department.
It's not as if fans began questioning Popovich, but the 2017 postseason has reinforced just how great a coach he is.
Tim Duncan is no longer on the team, Manu Ginobili is 39, and Tony Parker suffered a season-ending tendon injury in the second game of the Rockets series. In addition, the Spurs beat Houston by 39 points on the road without Kawhi Leonard, who missed the game due to an ankle injury.
Popovich found a way to win a postseason game with Patty Mills and Jonathon Simmons in the starting lineup, and the pair combined to score 32 points.
On the slim chance the Spurs can dethrone the Golden State Warriors for West supremacy, it would be his best coaching job in a legendary career.

James Harden took responsibility for the Houston Rockets' 114-75 Game 6 meltdown Thursday night as his team watched its season end at the hands of the San Antonio Spurs. 
"Everything falls on my shoulders," Harden told reporters at the postgame podium, according to CBS Sports' Matt Moore. "I take responsibility for it."
What was going on with Harden tonight? s://t.co/ZmBKxnkzeS
Harden also conceded the Spurs "were a better team this series," according to the Houston Chronicle's Brian T. Smith. 
"They just dominated," he added, per ClutchFans on Twitter. "We never really had a rhythm the entire game."
Pressed to identify the root cause of the Rockets' issues Thursday night, Harden kept things simple. 
"I don't know what it was," Harden said, according to the Washington Post's Tim Bontemps. "I know they played well, and we didn't."
Harden also said Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich was at a loss for words when the two spoke after such a lopsided effort, per Bontemps: 
James Harden said Gregg Popovich said that he didn't know what to say to him in the handshake line after the game. He wasn't alone.
NBA TV relayed video of Harden's complete remarks: 
"Everything falls on my shoulders. I take responsibility for it..." - James Harden after Game 6 series-ending loss

#NBAPlayoffs s://t.co/yX0ib4iZ4e
On a more micro level, Harden was in an uncharacteristic funk from start to finish. All told, the MVP candidate scored 10 points on 2-of-11 shooting while committing six turnovers. 
As a result of those struggles, the Rockets sputtered their way to a season-low 75 points as they watched the Spurs set up a Western Conference Finals showdown against the Golden State Warriors. 
Now Harden and the Rockets will head back to the drawing board as they attempt to make amends for Thursday's slip-up and make a run toward the Larry O'Brien Trophy. 

The Western Conference Finals are officially set following the San Antonio Spurs' 114-75 Game 6 win over the Houston Rockets on Thursday night at Toyota Center. 
Now, the Spurs will attempt to knock off the top-seeded Golden State Warriors with a trip to the NBA Finals on the line. 
That series will tip off Sunday at 3:30 p.m. ET, according to the Bay Area News Group's Anthony Slater: 
For the Spurs, a Sunday start means they'll enjoy two full days off before hitting the hardwood again. The Warriors, meanwhile, will return to the court May 14 for the first time since Monday's Game 4 triumph over the Utah Jazz. 
The Warriors, though, can't try coasting out of the gate considering the Spurs won the season series 2-1 and are 5-5 against the defending Western Conference champions over the last three seasons, per ESPN Stats & Info.  
But if the Spurs want to pull off a stunner, they'll need a healthy Kawhi Leonard—who missed Game 6 due to a sprained ankle—at their disposal.
To this point in the postseason, the Spurs have outscored opponents by 9.3 points per 100 possessions with Leonard on the floor, according to NBA.com's lineup data. But when he sits, that mark plummets eight points. 
And with San Antonio already down a starter in Tony Parker (quad), the Spurs simply can't afford to be even more banged up entering what figures to be a tense series with the Dubs. 

There are few bigger constants in life than the San Antonio Spurs, and they proved so again Thursday with a commanding 114-75 victory over the Houston Rockets in Game 6 of their second-round playoff series.
San Antonio clinched its 11th trip to the Western Conference Finals in the last 23 seasons with the win at the Toyota Center. Even more impressively, it did so after it announced Kawhi Leonard was out with a sprained ankle.
They never go away. Spurs. 

#NBAPlayoffs s://t.co/fHPOTO0t19
Tony Parker was already out with a ruptured quadriceps tendon, so LaMarcus Aldridge picked up the slack with a double-double of 34 points and 12 rebounds. His effort was part of a dominant team performance:
As for Houston, the lackluster effort stunned the home fans with elimination hanging in the balance. MVP candidate James Harden finished with 10 points on 2-of-11 shooting, although Clint Capela (15 points and 12 rebounds) and Trevor Ariza (20 points and five three-pointers) played well.
                 
San Antonio's Team Effort Overwhelms Houston
SportsCenter put San Antonio's starting lineup of Aldridge, Pau Gasol, Patty Mills, Danny Green and Jonathon Simmons into perspective:
Last time the Spurs started no players named Kawhi, Manu, Tony or Tim in the playoffs was...

May 2, 2000. s://t.co/WMqo638UwY
Even without the famous faces who have defined his tenure, head coach Gregg Popovich pulled the right strings and had his team pounding the blocks and moving the ball with precision.
The Spurs specifically targeted Harden on the blocks, and the frontcourt combination of Aldridge and Gasol (10 points, 11 rebounds and five assists) carried the offense for extended stretches.
The team appreciated Aldridge's 16-of-26 mark from the field:
LaMarcus.... s://t.co/9DaKm8yFED
The ball movement was necessary with Leonard out, and the Spurs tallied 32 assists compared to 22 Houston field goals and extended their lead to more than 40 in the second half. 
Dan Devine of Yahoo's Ball Don't Lie joked about Leonard's absence:
It’s like we’ve all been saying: Kawhi Leonard has been holding the Spurs back all year long. s://t.co/SVFjiwU8pH
Simmons turned heads with his defense and ability to slash the lane, which led to a lofty comparison from Matt Moore of CBS Sports:
LeBronathon Simmons in the house.
Elsewhere, Mills and Green dictated the pace and operated the offense from the backcourt, but it was Aldridge who reminded the NBA world he is a five-time All-Star with a vintage performance. He had four points in Game 1 and reached the 20-point mark only once in the first five games of the series but saved his best performance for when Leonard was out.
The result was a spot in the Western Conference Finals.
                
James Harden Leads Houston's Disappearance
You would have been forgiven if you expected Harden to come through with a monster performance with his team facing elimination and Leonard not hounding him. ESPN Stats & Info highlighted the difference in Harden's effectiveness when the two-time reigning Defensive Player of the Year defended him in the first five games:
The Spurs' Kawhi Leonard (ankle) is a game-time decision for Game 6 against the Rockets. 8 ET, ESPN/ESPN App s://t.co/Sjlpwk0dCw
However, Harden did the exact opposite and responded with a mere two field goals and six turnovers even though Leonard was watching from the sidelines. He didn't even attempt a single field goal in the first quarter and had as many turnovers (five) as points at the half.
The result was a disjointed effort from the entire offense, as evidenced by 13 turnovers and 28.6 percent shooting from the field. 
The Rockets at least had summer vacation to look forward to, as Mike Finger of the San Antonio Express-News pointed out:
The fans aren't booing here. I think it's the Rockets' huddle yelling "Cancuuuuuuuuun."
Houston wilted under the playoff pressure, but plenty of credit goes to San Antonio's stifling defense. After all, it was No. 1 in the league in defensive rating during the regular season, per NBA.com, and contested the three ball and swarmed the driving lanes throughout the contest.
Replicating that formula against the two-time reigning conference champion Golden State Warriors in the Western Conference Finals will not be easy, but the Spurs demonstrated their vast defensive potential without their best defensive player Thursday.   

LaVar Ball's antics may prove of little consequence when it comes time for his son Lonzo to enter the NBA.
Los Angeles Lakers president Magic Johnson said Thursday the team won't consider LaVar whatsoever when evaluating Lonzo ahead of the 2017 NBA draft, per ESPN.com's Jeff Goodman.
Phoenix Suns general manager Ryan McDonough took a similar stance, telling ESPN (via CBS Sports' Matt Norlander): "We evaluate the player first and foremost. Every player comes from a different family situation. It seems like LaVar has been extremely involved in Lonzo's career, and obviously he's a polarizing guy. But on the court, in terms of development, it seems like it's helped Lonzo."
There's no question LaVar's constant promotion of himself and his sons can be grating for fans, but most of his boasts are harmless and have little to no impact on his sons' careers.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
At the same time, it wouldn't be surprising his LaVar's nature did give some teams pause about potentially drafting Lonzo.
LaVar already incurred the wrath of Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James when he brought up James' children and their pro prospects.
LaVar may have played the role of overbearing sports dad with the Chino Hills High School basketball team as well. When reporting on the departure of the team's head coach, Stephan Gilling, after one year, the Los Angeles Times' Eric Sondheimer reported Ball and Gilling "got into a war of words at the end of the season."
In an interview with For The Win's Andrew Joseph, Gilling detailed how LaVar undermined him in front of the Chino Hills players.
Lonzo averaged 14.6 points, 6.0 rebounds and 7.6 assists a game as a freshman for the UCLA Bruins. He's one of the best players in the 2017 draft class.
While LaVar is unlikely to cost his son any draft position, it wouldn't be surprising if the team that selects Lonzo takes steps to ensure LaVar takes a less active role in his son's career compared to his involvement with Chino Hills.

New York Knicks coach Jeff Hornacek believes he will have Kristaps Porzingis at his disposal next season.
"There's no doubt in my mind he'll be on the roster," the coach said Thursday, per Al Iannazzone of Newsday.
Iannazzone noted Porzingis "skipped his end-of-season exit meeting out of frustration over the direction of the franchise."
Hornacek also commented on Porzingis' decision to miss the meeting, "It would've been a great opportunity to talk about what he sees, but we figure it's a long summer. We'll end up talking to him, and all that stuff coming into next year will be fine."
This comes after Ian Begley of ESPN.com reported a number of teams reached out to the Knicks about a potential trade when Porzingis skipped the meeting.
Porzingis also generated buzz when he tweeted about the Los Angeles Clippers in a post that he later deleted.
Tweeted. Then deleted. 🤔 s://t.co/IjwPrcNfmD
Porzingis said his account was hacked, but Begley reported the big man's brother, certified agent Janis Porzingis, said Porzingis wants to stay in the Big Apple but wishes the team would generate a more conducive environment for long-term winning.
Porzingis is just 21 years old and averaged 18.1 points and 7.2 rebounds per game this season. He would figure to be a building block as the team strives to turn things around following four straight losing seasons, but there have been plenty of off-court headlines surrounding him this offseason.
 

Former Kansas Jayhawks guard and reigning Wooden Award winner Frank Mason III was asked how he would want to die during an interview at the NBA Draft Combine.  
Speaking to ESPN (h/t WIBW-TV's Chris Lilly), Mason detailed his answer to the odd question: 
What the heck...one NBA team asked Frank Mason how he'd like to die...#kubball s://t.co/UTsfEtASnP
Mason wasn't the only one who encountered strange lines of questioning during the interview process. 
According to the Dallas Morning News' Eddie Sefko, Creighton Bluejays big man Justin Patton said he was asked: "When you come to a yellow light, do you speed up or slow down?" 
Patton responded by telling the interviewee it "depends where I'm going." 
Those questions were made public a day after Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey tweeted that one prospect said his college team "didn't really have any rules" in response to a question asking if he violated the program's policies.  

Kevin Durant thinks the combine is useless. A majority of the top 10 prospects for the 2017 NBA draft apparently agreed, deciding to skip out on the festivities held this week in Chicago.
But for those who did make the trip, Thursday was a critical day as they tried to impress scouts with measurements, drill times and five-on-five games. 
Potential No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz was in attendance, though he will not participate in any workouts. That will have to wait until the Washington product does his private workout with teams. 
Jeff Goodman of ESPN reported Fultz has interviews scheduled with the Boston Celtics, Phoenix Suns, Los Angeles Lakers, Philadelphia 76ers, Sacramento Kings and New York Knicks in Chicago. The NBA, not the player, typically chooses combine interviews.  
Big on Thursday's docket were the measurements, which typically get Basketball Twitter guffawing at the outlandish sizes of some players. France's Jonathan Jeanne was the tallest prospect in Chicago, measuring at 7'2" in shoes. He also had one of the largest wingspans in combine history at 7'6 ½", which puts him instantly among the longest players in the NBA.
The big fella @j_jeanne971 shows the length! #NBACombine s://t.co/Uzw2FDC5kC
The biggest issue with Jeanne is his strength. He weighed in at just 207.4 pounds, and Bleacher Report's Jonathan Wasserman noted he struggled a bit inside in five-on-five drills:
French big Jonathan Jeanne just doesn't look strong enough, either with the ball or holding his ground defensively inside
Gonzaga's Zach Collins and UCLA's Thomas Welsh were the only other players to measure at 7 feet or taller. Collins is a fast-rising prospect who became Gonzaga's first one-and-done, and has an outside shot of rising into the top five. 
UCLA's Ike Anigbogu (7'6 ¼"), Indiana's Thomas Bryant (7'6"), Texas' Jarrett Allen (7'5 ¼") and North Carolina's Tony Bradley (7'5") also came in with the tallest wingspans of the day. The Beat's Justin Russo was particularly impressed by Anigbogu's measurements:
Ike Anigbogu was 6'10" and 252 with a 7'6" wingspan, 9'2½" standing reach, and 5% body fat? And had huge hands? Lawdy lawdy.
Indiana's OG Anunoby's measurements will also impress scouts, especially given the fact he's still rehabbing from a torn ACL suffered during the college regular season. He had just 6.8 percent body fat on a 6'7 ¾", 232-pound frame, which will give teams hope he can play a small-ball power forward. 
How @nolimittb31 and @OAnunoby measured up at the @NBADraft Combine today 📈#iubb #ProIU s://t.co/8yBSmqtUi8
Louisville's Donovan Mitchell measured in at 6'3" in shoes but has a massive 6'10" wingspan that should make him long enough to guard NBA 2s. 
Perhaps the least impressive wingspan among potential first-round picks went to Luke Kennard, who had a 6'5 ¼" wingspan on his 6'6 ½" frame. 
Not in attendance was Lonzo Ball, perhaps Fultz's top competitor for the No. 1 overall spot. Ball was among a vast majority of elite players who chose to skip the event. Fultz, De'Aaron Fox and Collins were the only three players ranked in the top 10 by ESPN's Chad Ford to make the trip.
Josh Jackson and Jayson Tatum, the two outside contenders to be the top selection, depending on how the lottery shakes out, also skipped the event.
Almost none of the elite players who did make the trip are participating in actual game action. No players ranked inside Ford's top 20 are suiting up for five-on-five, with most being fringe second-round prospects looking to improve their standing or guys who are simply trying to get on the radar for next year.
Over the next week, we will likely see a number of players who entered early but did not hire an agent withdraw their name from the draft.
Under a 2016 NCAA/NBA agreement, players can enter their names as many times as they want to the draft without losing their collegiate eligibility—provided they do not hire an agent. Some players made the trip to Chicago simply to get a better understanding of where they stand against the competition, get their names in teams' ears and then return to school to better their stock.
Oregon's Jordan Bell, among the breakout players of the NCAA tournament, was impressive during the first game of five-on-five play. He stood out thanks to his motor on both ends of the floor, finishing with 13 points, seven rebounds, five assists and five blocks, per Ford.
Arizona's Rawle Alkins, one of the draft's surprising early entrants, led all players with 18 points in the first game. 
Kentucky's Hamidou Diallo impressed in the agility training with a 44 ½" vertical leap. Gonazga's Nigel Williams-Goss and Kentucky's Isaiah Briscoe ranked among the best in the speed drills. 
Below are the full measurements and agility testing from the draft combine, courtesy of NBA.com:
 

After a star-making freshman year at Kentucky, De'Aaron Fox got to show off his skills in front of professional scouts on Thursday at the 2017 NBA Combine.
Fox helped lead the Wildcats to the Elite Eight. He averaged 16.7 points and 4.6 assists in 36 games last season. He put on a show against UCLA and Lonzo Ball in the NCAA tournament with 39 points in an 86-75 win for Kentucky. 
This year's combine is lacking star power with most of the top prospects choosing to sit out the drills, or not attend altogether, making Fox the highest projected draft pick to give scouts an up close and personal look at what he can do. 
Analysis
Eyebrows were raised when Fox weighed in just under 170 pounds. He is listed at 187 pounds on Kentucky's official athletic website. 
Sam Vecenie of the Sporting News had an optimistic view of Fox's low weight:
On De’Aaron Fox's weight: players tend to lose weight from the start of the season to the end. 17 lbs is a lot, but it’s explainable.
Sean Deveney of the Sporting News cited a scout who was skeptical of what Kentucky's weight listing:
Kentucky had listed De'Aaron Fox at 187 pounds. Scout told me he hadn't believed that for a second. Combine measurement: 169.6 pounds.
Because there was at least some skepticism around Fox's listed weight in college, the fact he came in so far below that at the combine doesn't seem likely to hurt his draft outlook. Teams saw what he looked like physically and how well he performed throughout the year.
Weight seems to be something that follows top Kentucky draft prospects around, for whatever reason. Last year, Vecenie wrote for CBS Sports that Tyler Ulis was one of the combine losers for tipping the scales at 149 pounds, noting it was 11 pounds less than the lowest recorded weight at the combine. 
Ulis wasn't regarded with the same kind of draft hype as Fox, and he lasted until the second round when the Denver Nuggets grabbed him with the 34th overall pick. 
Draft Express noted Fox's dimensions matched up nicely with Brandon Knight, who played at Kentucky in 2010-11 and was the eighth overall pick in the 2011 draft by the Detroit Pistons. Knight had a 6'6.8" wingspan with and 8'2 1/2" standing reach, per Draft Express.  
That was the most noteworthy part of Fox's day, which was light on action. He didn't take part in the five-on-five scrimmages, nor did he do the vertical jumps. 
Fox's appearance was enough to keep him on the minds of NBA scouts during the months between the end of the college basketball season and the draft. He was able to affirm his status without doing anything to destroy his ceiling at the professional level. 
Draft Projection
The top two players in this year's draft have seemingly been set in stone for months. Ball and Washington's Markelle Fultz will likely go 1-2, in either order, when the draft takes place on June 22. 
After Ball and Fultz come off the board is when things get really interesting because there doesn't seem to be a consensus No. 3 pick, though that's not due to lack of talent in this class. Things will also become clearer after the draft order is set following the lottery on May 16. 
B/R's Jonathan Wasserman—one of the few dissenters who has Ball going No. 3 to the Los Angeles Lakers—has Fox projected to the Orlando Magic with the fifth overall selection:
De'Aaron Fox vs. Dennis Smith Jr. should stir up good war-room debate. But after carrying Kentucky to postseason wins and improving his shooting along the way, Fox could have moved ahead of Smith, who failed to show in multiple big games and couldn't reach the NCAA tournament. 
It's worth noting that Fox shot better than Smith on two-point jumpers and free throws, stats that suggest his perimeter game isn't too far behind. 
ESPN's Chad Ford had Fox waiting a little longer in his most recent mock, projecting the Kentucky star to land with the New York Knicks at No. 7 overall. 
The combine wasn't going to drastically alter Fox's position in the draft unless he completely bombed. He's going to be selected in the top 10, with the potential to slide into the top five based on the lottery order and team needs. 

The San Antonio Spurs will not have their best player Thursday as they attempt to close out the Houston Rockets in Game 6 of their second-round playoff series.
Kawhi Leonard will not suit up after suffering an ankle injury in Game 5, the team announced on Twitter. 
According to CBS Sports' Matt Moore, Jonathon Simmons will start in place of Leonard. 
News of Leonard's absence comes after the Spurs announced Wednesday he was questionable with his ankle sprain even though he previously said he would play, per Michael C. Wright of ESPN. San Antonio holds a 3-2 lead in the series but will need to find a way to play without its MVP candidate and clear two-way leader spearheading the charge.
Leonard tallied 25.5 points, 5.8 rebounds and 1.8 steals per game this season while shooting 48.5 percent from the field and 38.1 percent from three-point range. He finished third in the league in player efficiency rating (27.62) behind only Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant, per ESPN.com.
The two-time reigning Defensive Player of the Year guards the opponent's best player on a regular basis, and head coach Gregg Popovich has used him on James Harden at times in the Houston series.
While his impact will be dearly missed, his teammates should have confidence after they prevailed in Game 5 110-107 even with Leonard on the sidelines in overtime and the final minutes of regulation and Tony Parker out with a ruptured quadriceps tendon.
Manu Ginobili notched 12 points, seven rebounds and five assists, and no play was more important than his block on Harden's potential game-tying three in the final seconds. Danny Green added 16 points, six of which came on a three-pointer and an and-1 in the last minute. Patty Mills added 20 points, while Simmons provided stellar defense on Harden down the stretch.
If those players can replicate their efforts, the Spurs will have a chance to finish the series and shift attention to the Western Conference Finals. If they can't, the series may come down to Leonard's availability in a possible Game 7.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
An animal shelter held an event where every dog was adopted...except for Eastwood. 
That was until the Van Gundy family had a say. 
Watch above. 

Cavaliers forward Richard Jefferson took time out on his podcast to throw shade at Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green, who criticized Cleveland's playoff schedule earlier this week. 
Jordan Heck of Sporting News provided a transcript of Jefferson's comments:
Richard Jefferson calls out Draymond Green for criticism about Cavs opponents. Says Warriors haven't played vs. tough competition, either. s://t.co/7GOVtnLMTr
Green, who made headlines with his public comments over the past week, said Monday that he wasn't impressed by Cleveland sweeping the Toronto Raptors or Indiana Pacers.
"I just watched San Antonio-Houston," he said, per the Mercury News' Daniel Mano. "I like to watch good basketball. When you watch Cleveland play, you’re only watching one side of the good basketball. That’s kind of weak.
"I like watching a good game, not even necessarily that it’s going to be a close game. I like to watch teams playing good basketball. When you watch them, you watch one team playing good basketball and everybody else do something. I don’t know what that something is." 
Green, obviously frustrated with the firestorm his quote created, criticized the national media for making the situation into a controversy. 
"It's pretty pathetic that that's the headline everybody wants: 'Draymond is disappointed with who Cleveland plays,'" Green told reporters. "You think I care who Cleveland plays? Or how the other team plays? But I am a basketball fan, and I know what I want to watch as a basketball fan."
The Warriors forward also denied he was "disappointed" by the Cavaliers' competition. He went on to compliment Cleveland for playing "great basketball."
Conference champions each of the last two seasons, the Cavaliers and Warriors are widely expected to meet for a third straight Finals next month. Both teams have swept through their first two rounds of opponents and are awaiting flawed competition in the conference finals. The Cavaliers will face the Boston Celtics or Washington Wizards, while the Warriors are slated to take on the San Antonio Spurs or Houston Rockets.
While it's too early to press the simulate button on the conference finals, a rubber match in the Finals would be one beautiful pettiness bonanza. 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
It’s the trade deadline as Jeremy Lin, Brook Lopez and the rest of House Nets anxiously await the news. In the North, Kyle Lowry negotiates with House Magic for Serge Ibaka.
Stay up to the date on Game of Zones' full fourth season. New episodes premiere exclusively on Bleacher Report each Thursday.
Warning: NSFW language is used in the episode. 

What the NBA should do about the proliferation of players being fouled on three-point shot attempts is up for debate. What is not is who has practically cornered the market on how to draw them: the Houston Rockets.
And for however long they are alive in these playoffs—and facing elimination in a Game 6 against the San Antonio Spurs on Thursday night, it may not be long—there will be consternation from certain corners of the league about how the Rockets have created an unfair advantage for themselves and are "gaming the system," as one rival general manager told Bleacher Report.
That was one of several subjects discussed in a meeting Wednesday on the eve of the NBA Draft Combine in Chicago. The league's vice president of basketball operations, Kiki Vandeweghe, invited the GMs of all 30 teams to air whatever grievances or issues they feel need to be addressed by the competition committee this summer. While Vandeweghe declined to provide details on exactly what was discussed, he made two promises: the subject of maneuvering for calls on three-pointers is on the agenda when the competition committee meets in July, and until then, no drastic changes are planned.
"We're going to continue to call things and look at things in the playoffs the same way we did in the regular season," he said. "This is certainly a priority but…these are complicated plays. They're best looked at in the offseason. We'll look at a lot of different clips and decide what should be done then."
That's not soon enough for one team. "The league has refused to take action," one of its executives said. "People have been making a point of this since January. The league is getting played."
Rest assured that whenever the competition committee reviews those clips, some will feature Rockets guards James Harden and Lou Williams, who have been the most adept at drawing fouls on three-point attempts during the regular season for three years' running now. This past season, they didn't just lead the league; they practically lapped it. Harden drew fouls on 124 three-point shot attempts, according to SB Nation's Kristian Winfield, while Williams did the same on 55. Toronto Raptors All-Star point guard Kyle Lowry and Portland Trail Blazers floor general Damian Lillard were a distant third and fourth with 32 and 30, respectively. 
Harden and Williams, of course, weren't always teammates. The Rockets acquired Williams at the trade deadline from the Lakers for slashing wingman Corey Brewer and Houston's 2017 first-round pick.
Rockets GM Daryl Morey, renowned for his use of analytics, denies that Williams' talent for getting fouled on three-point shots made him particularly attractive.
"His ability to shoot from the perimeter and make it hard on defenders was a big factor in us acquiring him, but I don't think it was based on his ranking in [drawing three-point shooting fouls], no," Morey said.
Several executives and coaches alike compared the current art of getting to the free-throw line on three-point shots to the "rip-through" move popularized by Kevin Durant when he was with the Oklahoma City Thunder and former Spurs forward Tim Duncan. (Harden and Los Angeles Clippers point guard Chris Paul also became adept at it.) Anytime a defender put his arm out or Durant/Duncan could get in close quarters, they'd rip the ball up into the defender's arm, drawing contact as though they were attempting to raise the ball to shoot. The popularity of the ruse faded when the league instructed referees to call it a common foul if the arm motion wasn't in the direction of the hoop.
One Eastern Conference assistant coach noted that Boston Celtics guard Isaiah Thomas uses a version of the same trick on his drives to the basket, driving the ball into the chest of defenders. If there is contact as he raises the ball to shoot, there's a whistle blown and he's headed to the free-throw line. If the defender pulls back to avoid a foul, Thomas has clearance, despite being 5'9", to get his shot up and over that defender.
#Celtics Rewind pres. by @NissanUSA: @Isaiah_Thomas with the ridiculous off-balanced bucket and the foul! s://t.co/ri3NYPcxfX
The way in which Harden draws a number of his fouls is more complicated, because it involves pick-and-roll plays above the three-point arc. Three-point shots and pick-and-roll plays have both been league staples for a while, but the proliferation of such plays above the arc is relatively new. The league's best three-point shooters—Harden, Thomas, Steph Curry, Klay Thompson and JJ Redick, to name a few—have become so efficient hitting uncontested shots from long range that their defenders have been instructed to fight over the picks being set for them, even if they are 25 feet from the basket.
"Everybody is going over the screen now," said one Eastern Conference assistant coach, "because these guys have become so dangerous."
Harden, in particular, has become a master at abruptly stopping and shooting before he's cleared the screen, leaving the defender with two choices: be a step slower going around the screen and risk Harden getting an open look on the other side of it, or chasing hard and risk running into him if he stops and pops. One Western Conference executive tells B/R that he has actually seen Harden and Williams practicing drawing contact in pregame warmups.
There are other tactics at work as well. Some screening big men will subtly shift the angle of their screen, thereby practically forcing a defender to make contact with the screener's ball-handling teammate. The defender on the screening big man has also been known to bump or wedge the screener or the ball-handler into his fellow defender, sometimes drawing an illegal screen call or an offensive charge.
Morey appreciates that the league is taking a methodical approach to the subject.
"The league has been good about not creating any unintended consequences when it comes to changing a rule," he said. "When they made an adjustment on the sweep-through rule, I thought they did a very smart adjustment: If the guy isn't shooting toward the hoop, then it's still a foul, but it's not a shooting foul. This one's even tougher, though, because these are people shooting toward the hoop whose arms are getting hit."
Not everyone agrees. One team's analytics staff calls Harden's tactic "The Jabroni," as in an inauthentic attempt to actually shoot the ball. Referees, one league source said, are instructed not to judge intent but simply whether there is or isn't illegal contact.
"I actually don't think it needs a rule change because if you try to make it not a foul, I don't know how you don't create huge unintended consequences with people's arms being hit," Morey said. "You could hold your arm in front of a player and just not allow them to shoot. If you pull up to shoot and the guy hits your arm, I don't see any way that isn't a foul. You don't want to add more subjectivity in the hands of the refs; that's always going to be problematic."
As great as Harden, Williams and others are at hitting three-point shots, their efficiency is far better if they're trading that one shot from beyond the arc for three free throws. Harden produced an average of 1.4 points per every three-point shot taken, according to one team's analytics department; Curry averaged 1.7. But as free-throw shooters averaging between 80 and 90 percent efficiency, those three free throws translate to 2.4 to 2.7 points for every foul drawn on a three-point shot. 
Whatever remedy the competition committee finds this summer for this particular wrinkle, it's only a matter of time before another one emerges.
"If there weren't these tricks," said the Eastern Conference assistant coach, "there would be other ones." 
    
Ric Bucher covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter: @RicBucher.

NBA players haven't always stuck to the confines of traditional basketball sneakers.
In the past, before sneaker brands used science and data to determine the perfect designs and materials, hoopers wore whatever kicks felt comfortable. Today, even after decades of research has proved what works best in protecting ankles and providing support without weighing players down, certain guys still choose to go in their own footwear direction.
You look good, you play good, right? So why not focus on getting Likes while also focusing on getting buckets?
Below is a rundown featuring five of the wildest non-basketball sneakers ever worn on an NBA court. We'll discuss why each selection was outlandish and, more importantly, who was bold enough to wear each shoe.

Who: Los Angeles Lakers guard Nick Young
Sneaker: Adidas Yeezy Boost 750
Date: December 12, 2015
Over his time with the Los Angeles Lakers, Nick Young has become an off-beat cardholder in the NBA's rising sneaker community. He spent a touring year with Nike before signing on with Adidas in 2015, per Nick DePaula of NiceKicks.com.
His first year with the three-stripe brand showcased just about everything new and used in their arsenal. But it was Young's decision to wear Kanye West's Yeezy Boost 750 that generated fresh attention.
The sneakers, constructed for casual use, were an odd choice to wear on an NBA court. The flimsy upper offers little support in an athletic capacity. Aside from Boost sole, nothing about the sneaker makes any type of basketball sense.
Don't tell that to Young. He wore the kicks with pride, showcasing why his style remains a perfect fit for the city of Los Angeles.

Who: Toronto Raptors forward P.J. Tucker
Sneaker: Nike Air Yeezy 2 "Red October"
Date: November 12, 2015
P.J. Tucker's NBA career may not have produced a resume full of All-Star Game appearances and NBA titles when he finally decides to hang up his kicks; however, the veteran Toronto Raptors forward will go down as having one of the cleanest sneaker collections in history.
Switching between timeless Air Jordan retros and outlandish non-basketball kicks like the Nike Air Yeezy 2 "Red October," Tucker has spent his entire career flexing on fellow court-dwellers.
Rocking the Air Yeezy 2 "Red October" was the ultimate stunt. Besides having a ridiculous resell value—the last sale on StockX reached $4,402—the shoe features zero NBA qualities.
To each their own. But for Tucker, on-foot style matters and he's shown that during his six-year career.

Who: Atlanta Hawks forward Thabo Sefolosha
Sneaker Worn: Nike Air Max 90
Date: 2015-present
Thabo Sefolosha has been running with Nike's Air Max line for two seasons now. The veteran forward began his pursuit of finding a non-basketball sneaker in 2015 and continued to go down that path this season, per ESPN.com's Eric Yebdoah.
Sefolosha's rotation between the Air Max 1 and Air Max 90 has been a statement. A statement that has advanced his standing in the sneaker world.
Going an entire NBA season in Nike running shoes is an accomplishment in its own right. The lack of traditional basketball sneaker support—not to mention ankle protection—makes any Nike Air Max model a unique choice for the toughest basketball league on earth.

Who: Washington Wizards guard Gilbert Arenas
Sneaker Worn: Dolce & Gabbana Patent High
Date: December 7, 2010
Gilbert Arenas may no longer be on an NBA roster, but his legacy lives on through a series of controversial moments and dope sneaker choices.
Perhaps the most outlandish pair of non-basketball kicks Arenas wore was in 2010 versus the Los Angeles Lakers. It was there, on Kobe Bryant's home court, where Arenas wore a heavy, clunky, reflective pair of Dolce & Gabbana Patent Highs.
The sneaker sort of looks like a hoops sneaker from a distance. However, it's the total opposite. No fixed lace structure and overbearing support straps give this shoe a real lack of NBA character.
It was all in a day's work for Agent Zero. Instead of slogging around, he lit up Los Angeles to the tune of 23 points and four assists.

Who: Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James
Sneaker Worn: Nike Air Yeezy 2 "Red October"
Date: June 7, 2014
OK, so LeBron didn't wear these Air Yeezy 2's during an actual NBA game like P.J. Tucker did, but since LeBron James is LeBron James, it would a shame if we didn't include the moment when he practiced in Kanye West's classic sneaker design.
As a staunch supporter and lifetime member of Team Nike, it was only natural for King James to rock the Red Octobers during a Miami Heat practice session before Game 2 of the 2014 NBA Finals. Taking jumpers and driving the lane, James' experience was done with style and grace.
Maybe the King will shock us all and rock these in front of a bigger audience? Doubtful, but hey, we can always dream.
    
All stats and information courtesy of NBA.com. unless noted otherwise.

When Memphis Grizzlies head coach David Fizdale partook in the ESPN "car wash," the conversation frequently gravitated toward his time coaching LeBron James as a Miami Heat assistant.
In a Mike & Mike appearance on Wednesday morning, Fizdale recalled James constantly re-gifting promotional items to coaches and teammates. He illuminated James' largesse with a tale of the star including him in a Samsung commercial.
"That was the part I will always remember about him, the things he would do for us. He put me in a commercial once as a wedding gift. How about that? Because I said, 'Don't get me anything.' Instead of him listening, he says 'Hey coach, why don't you be in the Samsung commercial with me?' You know, that's a nice little check for an assistant coach."
Business Insider's Cork Gaines shared the full-length commercial, during which Fizdale makes a cameo instructing James and former Heat teammate Mario Chalmers in a practice. While he was cut out of the 30-second spot, the shortened ad starts with him motivating James offscreen.
Fizdale also commended his former player's remarkable postseason with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who swept their way to the Eastern Conference Finals:
Yes, @memgrizz head coach David Fizdale says this is the best @KingJames has ever played in the postseason in our @1800flowers #Twitterview. s://t.co/0ca4GYB9I7
"He probably taught me more, basketball-wise, than I taught him," Fizdale added on James. "I'm forever grateful to the guy."
[h/t SB Nation's Kristian Winfield]

The New York Knicks made the playoffs for 14 straight seasons between 1988 and 2001 and reached the NBA Finals twice.
Since the 2001-2002 campaign, the Knicks have qualified for the postseason just four times and made the second round only once. Their record in the last four years is 117-211.
Change is clearly needed. It's just a matter of who and when.
Here's a look at a few recent Knicks rumors and some analysis.
    
Kristaps Porzingis
On Friday, May 5, Ian Begley of ESPN reported the following on New York Knicks star forward Kristaps Porzingis:
"Several teams reached out to the New York Knicks to talk about possible trades for Kristaps Porzingis in the days after he skipped his exit meeting with team president Phil Jackson and general manager Steve Mills, league sources told ESPN."
Today, Begley followed up with quotes from Porzinigis' brother, Janis:
"Kris wants to stay in New York; he feels at home there. There is no question about it. The only thing he wants is for the Knicks to create an environment where he can develop and grow as a player and win," Janis Porzingis said in an interview with ESPN. "If he were traded, he would play out his contract and head into free agency, where he can choose his own destiny."
The Knicks second-year forward averaged 18.1 points, 7.2 rebounds and 2.0 blocks during a tumultuous season in which he dealt with injuries while needless off-court drama played out in the tabloids. It was an impressive sophomore campaign given the tough environment he dealt with on a daily basis.
Certainly, playing in a triangle offense with a team that seemed disinterested in running it (as well as personnel not suited to orchestrate it) didn't help, nor did the fact that KP was playing with a shoot-first point guard in Derrick Rose.
Porzingis turns just 22 years old on August 2. He's the future of the franchise and has All-NBA Team potential. The Knicks front office needs to build around him immediately.
Therefore, it's clear that the best route is to patch up the relationship with KP as fast as possible and take Janis Porzinigis' advice to heart. Trading him would be a terrible decision.
    
Carmelo Anthony
Carmelo Anthony and the New York Knicks seem headed for an inevitable divorce given everything that played out this past season.
Anthony has a no-trade clause in his contract, although he has the option to waive it if he so chooses. He said on January 16 that he wasn't considering doing so, but if the right deal to a team Melo approves falls into place, then one has to wonder if Anthony will change his mind.
The Miami Heat, who were one of the best teams in the entire NBA during the second half of the regular season and look primed to make a playoff run next year, could theoretically be a possibility.
However, Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald shot down any potential of Melo heading to South Beach.
"One person in touch with the Heat said he does not expect a Heat pursuit of Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony, who’s available via trade.
"One reason is the onerous cap hits. According to cap expert/heathoops.com writer Albert Nahmad, because of an $8.1 million trade kicker, Anthony’s cap hits would be $30.3 million next season and $27.9 million the following if he’s traded before July 1."
The Miami Heat, per HoopsHype, have over $65 million tied up in players through the 2019-20 season. They could perhaps fit Melo in, but on the other hand, it might be best for the Heat to work with the core that went 30-11 to finish the regular season.
The team most connected to Anthony this year in trade rumors has been the Los Angeles Clippers. The chatter was so loud that Melo even addressed it in March.
Marc Berman of the New York Post wrote how a possible Clippers-Knicks trade involving Anthony could happen.
"According to some league executives, the only deal that makes sense for both sides is packaging Redick, combo guard Austin Rivers and adding wing man Wesley Johnson for financial purposes in exchange for Anthony and perhaps one of the Knicks’ two second-round picks in next month’s draft. At the trade deadline, the Clippers’ offer of Rivers and 37-year-old Jamal Crawford was turned down by the Knicks."
Let's say, hypothetically, that this deal was on the table for the Knicks and Anthony approved of a move to the Clippers. If you were Knicks President of Basketball Operations Phil Jackson, would you make the trade?
On one hand, the Clippers are getting the better side of the deal. Anthony may be past his prime, but he just averaged 22.4 points per game last year. He probably has a few more years where he can be an effective scorer posting 20-plus a night.
Redick is the main attraction in the Clips' package. He is a solid outside shooter who just averaged 15.0 points per game while making 42.9 percent of his three-pointers.
However, Rivers and Johnson had subpar seasons, with the former finishing tied for 299th in the NBA player efficiency rating and the latter slotting in at 411th, per Basketball-Reference. To put those numbers in perspective, 486 players stepped on an NBA court this year.
On the other hand, the Knicks have probably reached their ceiling with Anthony as their superstar, and he's clearly upset with the front office (and rightfully so). It's probably best for both sides to part ways and start fresh.
If I was Jackson, I'd shop around for a better deal, but if nothing else exists, I'd make the move and build around Porzingis, center Willy Hernangomez and this year's first-round draft pick, which will likely be a point guard given the depth and talent at that position.

Sharpshooting guard JJ Redick is reportedly likely to leave the Los Angeles Clippers as a free agent during the offseason.
According to Broderick Turner of the Los Angeles Times, Redick is seeking between $18 million and $20 million per season in his next contract.
Multiple NBA officials indicated to Turner that the Clips would not pay that price but may be willing to bring Redick back if the salary demand is lessened.
The 32-year-old Redick is coming off another strong season, as he averaged 15.0 points, 2.2 rebounds and 1.4 assists per game. He also shot a blistering 42.9 percent from beyond the arc and 89.1 percent from the charity stripe.
While L.A.'s Big Three of Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan get most of the attention from fans and media, Redick has settled in as a quality starter for the Clippers over the past four seasons.
The Clippers are in a state of flux, as both Paul and Griffin have the option to terminate their contracts and become free agents during the offseason, per Spotrac.
ESPN.com's Ramona Shelburne reported in October that Clippers owner Steve Ballmer was willing to pay any price to keep both CP3 and Griffin in Lob City.
Paul and Griffin have undeniable talent, but Los Angeles has yet to advance beyond the second round of the playoffs with them in the fold.
Keeping them may result in tough decisions being made elsewhere, and allowing Redick to walk could be in that category.
Redick came into his own with the Clippers after a somewhat mediocre beginning of his career with the Orlando Magic and Milwaukee Bucks.
The former Duke standout has developed into one of the NBA's elite three-point marksmen, and that promises to land him a hefty free-agent deal whether it's from the Clips or elsewhere.

The San Antonio Spurs won't determine Kawhi Leonard's status for Thursday's Game 6 of the Western Conference Semifinals against the Houston Rockets until close to tip-off at 8 p.m. ET. 
Per Jeff McDonald of the San Antonio Express-News, Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich announced Leonard will be listed as a game-time decision due to his ankle injury. 
"I want to take as much time as possible and see what he feels like," said Popovich.
Adam Wexler of KPRC-TV in Houston captured a short video of Leonard at San Antonio's afternoon shootaround:
Kawhi Leonard at shootaround s://t.co/kWwmT0ftAM
Leonard sat out the end of the fourth quarter and overtime in Game 5 of San Antonio's 110-107 victory over the Rockets due to knee and ankle problems. 
After the Spurs' win Tuesday, Leonard was insistent he would be ready to go in Game 6. 
"Yeah, I'm going to be able to play," Leonard said, per ESPN.com's Michael C. Wright. "It was frustrating because I wanted to play. But I was happy seeing my teammates out there putting in a good effort and getting the win."
The Spurs have a chance to close out their series against the Rockets on Thursday and set up a matchup with the Golden State Warriors in the Western Conference Finals. 
Leonard is averaging 27.8 points, 7.7 rebounds and 4.7 assists in 11 playoff games this season.

The Golden State Warriors have already punched their ticket to the Western Conference finals, and, likewise, the Cleveland Cavaliers became the first team to advance to the conference finals in the East. 
For some NBA fans, that balance of power is shaking out exactly as it should. 
For others, it would be really nice to see two teams besides the Warriors and the Cavs face off in the NBA Finals for the third time in as many years. You know, shake it up a little bit. 
The Warriors' nemesis in the West could be determined Thursday night, as the San Antonio Spurs and the Houston Rockets are scheduled to face off in Game 6. The Spurs lead that series 3-2.
You can see the entire bracket at NBA.com, but the most recent scores and the crucial upcoming games are all detailed below, including details on how to watch. 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Latest Scores
Wednesday, May 10 - Game 5
Boston Celtics 123, Washington Wizards 101
This series has been unpredictable in the most fun way, with the two teams trading an insane series of runs throughout the five matchups.
The Wizards' runs have been a frequent occurrence throughout the series, though they have only resulted in two wins:
#Wizards have had some impressive runs against the #Celtics
Game 1: 16-0
Game 2: 14-0
Game 3: 22-0
Game 4: 26-0 s://t.co/ksrDQo0hiu
Meanwhile, the Celtics set the tone early in their eventual 123-101 win over the Wizards on Wednesday night with a 16-0 run in the first quarter:
The #Celtics take control of Game 5 with a 16-0 run in the first! s://t.co/giyjYCUyEO
Isaiah Thomas has obviously been the emotional (and, most often, on-the-court) leader for Boston in this series, but on Wednesday, it was Avery Bradley who helped lead the team to its momentum-swinging win. 
Bradley set a playoff career high with 29 points, including 25 in the first half alone. 
Thomas added another 18 points and nine assists, and big man Al Horford contributed with 19 points on 8-of-9 shooting. Horford was benefited by Thomas screening for him, though it's usually the other way around. It may be unconventional, but it worked, and now the Celtics hold the momentum heading into Game 6.
     
Tuesday, May 9 - Game 5
San Antonio Spurs 110, Houston Rockets 107 OT
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
The Rockets and Spurs have been playing each other close—their Game 5 clash saw them trade leads 14 times—and yet the 3-2 lead the Spurs have taken heading into Game 6 is somehow starting to feel difficult for the Rockets to overcome. 
The game went into overtime, so clearly the Rockets pushed back against the Spurs enough to have won the game. In fact, Spurs guard Manu Ginobili described the game as a "coin flip," per CBS Sports' Matt Moore.
But the Rockets did not win, and now James Harden and his team have to find a way to best Ginobili and his team or else lose their shot at facing the Warriors in the Western Conference Finals.
Sure, Houston had plenty of opportunities to win the game in regulation, and it didn't. You can't blame an entire game on one moment.
But if you had to pinpoint the pivot point of this game, it was when the Rockets were trailing by three in the waning seconds of overtime. Harden had an opportunity to put up a three, but Ginobili blocked it.
Game over.  
"We had a lot of opportunities in those last three minutes to go in the game, knocked down a couple of threes, had good shots but just couldn't make a big play by that point," Houston coach Mike D'Antoni said, per Moore. 
Houston has had two days to refuel, but then again, so has San Antonio. If the Rockets want to hold off the Spurs and advance, they'll have to avoid missing big shots and becoming completely gassed, as they did in Game 5. 
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Travis Scott, the Billboard chart-topping rapper and Houston native, has found a way to bring the Toyota Center to a whole new level. 
Watch above. 

With Lonzo Ball preparing to start his NBA career when he gets drafted next month, LaVar Ball made it clear his son doesn't need to be mentored by Los Angeles Lakers legend Kobe Bryant. 
Speaking on Mornings with Keyshawn Johnson on ESPN Radio 710 in Los Angeles, Ball said his son doesn't have any reason to take advice from Bryant, via ESPN.com: 
"I don't need no advice from Kobe Bryant. I don't need advice from Kobe Bryant. 'Zo's got to play his game. If they're at practice and he sees something, and Lonzo listens to him or whatever, he's good. ... But it's just not, 'OK, I'm talking to Kobe, so now I'm going to be good.' If Kobe sees something that 'Zo is doing, then go from there. But I'm not trying to pattern after nobody."
Ball's comments come a week after Boston Celtics point guard Isaiah Thomas revealed Bryant has been offering advice by watching game film with him. 
"I'm around for all the guys," Bryant told ESPN's Jackie MacMullan about becoming a mentor. "Anybody can reach out. It's an open book."
Bryant retired from the NBA after the 2015-16 season. Ball's comments about Bryant follow his previous insistence that his son will play for the Lakers when he enters the NBA. 

Fact: Avery Bradley had a playoff-career-high 29 points in the Boston Celtics' 123-101 win over the Washington Wizards on Wednesday night. It was his third career playoff game with 20 or more points, all coming this postseason. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

Though some of the biggest names might not take part in exercises or drills, all eyes are on Chicago for the 2017 NBA Draft Combine.
Even if guys like Markelle Fultz of Washington don't go through the paces, the process nails down official measurements, reinforcing the idea the 2017 class will only further the continued evolution of the pro game.
Want centers who can run the court and shoot from deep? How about forwards who can guard the point or even bang down low with today's smaller centers? The 2017 class has a bit of everything in this regard on top of drama surrounding the likes of UCLA's Lonzo Ball.
In a backcourt-heavy class, it's only natural to see point guards dominate the top of mocks. Here's a look at a fresh offering, based on team need and prospect value.
      
2017 NBA Mock Draft
      
Notable Picks 
2. Phoenix Suns: Josh Jackson, F, Kansas
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
This is an odd draft class for the Phoenix Suns to finally start ignoring the backcourt given its depth.
Even so, Kansas' Josh Jackson is good enough to save the Suns from loading the area up yet again.
Jackson (6'8", 207 lbs) comes off a freshman campaign in which he averaged 16.3 points, 7.4 rebounds, 3.0 assists, 1.1 blocks and 1.7 steals per game. He also happened to shoot 51.3 percent from the floor.
Granted, stats aren't the most important thing when it comes to evaluating a prospect. But the diversity of the numbers speaks to his do-everything game as arguably one of the better two-way players in the class.
What ESPN's Timothy Legler said on 97.5 The Fanatic applies to any franchise:
"If Josh Jackson is there you have to take him no question. He is the closest thing to Kawhi Leonard I've ever seen." -@LegsESPN
Jackson brings the defense and a budding shooting stroke to the desert necessary to squeak into the starting lineup right away. The point guard position will need to sort itself out, but Jackson is a quality companion for Devin Booker on both ends of the court.
      
5. Orlando Magic: De'Aaron Fox, G, Kentucky

This might sound odd, but here goes: The Orlando Magic can't really go wrong in this draft. 
Orlando hasn't had a cemented direction for years. The Elfrid Payton experiment seemed like a full-blown rebuild, but the front office made some odd trades and acquired guys like Bismack Biyombo and an overall shrug-worthy roster.
If the Magic get this high in the order, it's "best player available" time, which could be Kentucky's De'Aaron Fox.
Fox (6'3", 187 lbs) dropped 16.7 points, 4.0 rebounds and 4.6 assists per game on 47.9 percent shooting from the floor. He's a bit wiry, but his borderline blinding speed lets him put on a show in transition, get others involved and beat defenders to a spot on the floor in the halfcourt game, with only his jump shot popping up as a bit of a question mark.
As journalist Adam Zagoria noted, Fox is ready to step under the microscope at the combine:
Kentucky's De'Aaron Fox is the highest projected pick who will do interviews w/ media. s://t.co/XxXNnKfBro
For the Magic, taking another point who might struggle with his jumper seems questionable. But it's time to push Payton and otherwise stack the roster with quality for a long-term rebuild.
In time, Fox might iron out his jumper issues. Everything else seems like it's already in place, and he's not talked about at No. 1 simply because of others possessing household-name status.
     
6. New York Knicks: Jayson Tatum, F, Duke
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Jonah Bolden NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for 76ers Rookie
Ivan Rabb NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Grizzlies Rookie
Numbers to Know Heading into 2017 NBA Draft
Jordan Bell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Warriors Rookie
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Semi Ojeleye NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Josh Hart NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Kyle Kuzma NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Caleb Swanigan NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Trail Blazers Rookie
Jarrett Allen NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Nets Rookie
Harry Giles NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
John Collins NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Hawks Rookie
Justin Patton NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Timberwolves Rookie
Justin Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Kings Rookie
Bam Adebayo NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Heat Rookie
Donovan Mitchell NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Jazz Rookie
Luke Kennard NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Pistons Rookie
Now the New York Knicks? They could go wrong. 
Very wrong.
The Knicks are a mess. The Carmelo Anthony era could come to an end for various reasons, per ESPN.com's Ian Begley. Kristaps Porzingis skipped an end-of-season meeting with the front office, and Begley reported that teams consequently contacted the Knicks about a trade.
This situation means the Knicks should grab a proven forward such as Duke's Jayson Tatum, who averaged 16.8 points, 7.3 rebounds, 2.1 assists, 1.1 blocks and 1.3 steals.
Funnily enough, Sporting News' Sam Vecenie had quite the interesting comparison for the 6'8", 205-pound Tatum when talking with ESPN Charlotte:
"Some people believe Jayson Tatum can be a Carmelo Anthony like player, a guy who could average 25 plus points per game" - Sam Vecenie s://t.co/k3K9XmhxsK
Tatum has great upside on both ends of the court, hence his being in a two-way race with Jackson for most of the year when it comes to potential top-five forwards.
The Knicks need to take the plunge here to prepare for life after the soon-to-be 33-year-old Anthony and grab Tatum.
The scenario above doesn't give the Knicks much to work with at point guard, leaving Tatum as the obvious best player available. In hindsight, should he meet his potential, it could look like the Knicks got a major steal.
         
All stats and info via ESPN.com unless otherwise specified.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Best and Worst Moves of the NBA Offseason So Far
Winners and Losers of the 2017 NBA Draft
Jayson Tatum NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Celtics Rookie
Grading the Jimmy Butler Trade for the Chicago Bulls
Josh Jackson NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Suns Rookie
Lonzo Ball NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Lakers Rookie
Pick 1: Markelle Fultz NBA Draft 2017: Scouting Report, Grade for Sixers Rookie
The Golden State Warriors Have Secured Their Place in NBA Finals History
Warriors and Cavaliers Scuffle
LeBron James Goes Off the Backboard and Slams It Down
Kevin Durant and Lebron James Jawing
Kevin Durant Is One Win Away from Capping Off an Unbelievable Year
The Warriors Are Historically Dominating the Playoffs
25 Years Ago, MJ Shrugged Off Clyde Drexler and the Blazers
Kevin Durant Game 1 Dunk Compilation
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
LeBron Dunks on Mcgee
Kevin Durant Sends an NBA Finals Statement, Dominates Game 1
Good Girl Gone Bad: Lebron Fan Rihanna Heckles KD in Game 1
Avery Bradley stole the show Wednesday night, scoring 25 of his postseason-career-high 29 points in the first half of Game 5's 123-101 win over the Washington Wizards. His strong start helped the Boston Celtics overcome their first-quarter struggles and gain a 3-2 series lead.
Late in the opening period, Celtics rookie Jaylen Brown saved a loose ball and found Bradley alone at the other end of the court. The guard safely slammed home an easy two points to punctuate Boston's 33-point first quarter.
The Celtics can seal an Eastern Conference Finals date with the Cleveland Cavaliers by beating the Wizards on Friday night. If not, the series will return to Boston for a winner-take-all Game 7, and the home team has emerged victorious in all five games thus far.

The Seattle Mariners made a move to upgrade their outfield Friday when they acquired Jarrod Dyson from the Kansas City Royals in exchange for right-handed pitcher Nathan Karns, according to the News Tribune's Bob Dutton.  
MLB.com's Greg Johns confirmed the report, and the Mariners made the move official shortly thereafter. 
"Jarrod brings us a winning pedigree, along with elite-level defense and baserunning," Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto said, according to a team press release. "He joins players like Leonys Martin and Jean Segura in creating a disruptive element on the bases to our offensive game while also enhancing our ability to prevent runs on defense."
After the Mariners announced the trade, Dyson posted a message on Twitter thanking the Royals organization:
It's was a blessing from above to be apart of such a class act organization#KcRoyals I really enjoyed every moment I spent as a royal!!!!😭😭 s://t.co/H1K9zhGEFi
Dyson is not going to bring much power to the table considering he's tallied seven career home runs and 101 RBI since he debuted in 2010, but he will offer the Mariners a major upgrade on the basepaths. 
The 32-year-old has recorded at least 25 stolen bases in five consecutive seasons, which is welcome news for a Seattle team that ranked 24th in MLB last season with 56 swipes. 
"Since 2012, Dyson has recorded 156 stolen bases, tied for sixth-most in the majors (also: Ben Revere) during that time span," the Mariners' press release noted. "Over the last five seasons, the left-handed hitter has been successful on 84.8 percent (156-of-184) of his stolen base attempts, second-best in the majors during that time."
Johns broke down what Dyson's addition says about the Mariners' approach entering the 2017 season: 
Dipoto going with speed &amp; defense in outfield, which is possible with infield with strong offense (Cano, Seager, Segura, Valencia/Vogelbach)
As for the Royals, Karns represents a low-risk, low-cost acquisition who could help bolster the team's pitching staff over time, as MLB.com's Jeffrey Flanagan noted: 
Karns is pre-arb and will make about $550,000. Dyson projected to make $2.5M through arb. Saved $$ and got a possible starter. #Royals
And while the 29-year-old's 14-9 record and 4.41 ERA in 46 career starts may not be jaw-dropping, he did start last year 5-1 through the first two months of the season before his production tailed off and he was bothered by a lower back strain. 
If Karns can channel his pre-All-Star break form from 2016 and continue to keep his fastball velocity around 93 mph while effectively mixing in his curveball and changeup, he could soon look like a bargain for a club that is hoping to return to the postseason following a one-year absence. 

The Baltimore Orioles have agreed to trade right-handed pitcher Yovani Gallardo to the Seattle Mariners for outfielder Seth Smith. 
The Orioles officially announced the deal on Twitter, also noting they sent cash considerations to the Mariners.  
Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto said Gallardo was an ideal fit for what the team needed heading into 2017.
"Gallardo gives us the veteran presence that we have been searching for," he said, per the team's official Twitter account. "He has a track record of durability and success as a starting pitcher. After examining the free agent and trade market, Yovani is the best fit for our club as we move forward this offseason."
Per ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick, the Orioles gained a little financial flexibility to address other holes on the roster by saving $4 million in the trade. 
The move is unusual for the Mariners, who traded a younger and cheaper starter in Taijuan Walker to the Arizona Diamondbacks earlier in the offseason. They are replacing him with Gallardo, who posted a 5.42 ERA with 85 strikeouts and 61 walks in 118 innings last season. 
The Orioles needed to find a right fielder who can take the place of Mark Trumbo, assuming he doesn't re-sign as a free agent. Even though Smith can't match Trumbo's power, he's a better overall hitter with a .344 career on-base percentage and will cost only $7 million in 2017, per Baseball-Reference.com.
This is a low-key deal that fills a clear need for both teams, though the Orioles' side looks better because Smith is a more valuable commodity at this point in his career than Gallardo is. 

Veteran infielder Luis Valbuena has reportedly found a new home with the Los Angeles Angels after slugging 66 home runs over the past four years, Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported Thursday.
Valbuena was on pace to have his best season to date in 2016 before a hamstring injury brought a premature end to his campaign in August. His .260 batting average and .816 OPS were both career highs, and he tallied 13 homers in 90 games for the Houston Astros.
Angel Verdejo Jr. of the Houston Chronicle noted the versatile infielder was focused on his recovery and not the potential offseason impact after suffering the injury setback.
"I have to get ready and see what happens," Valbuena said.
He started his career with the Seattle Mariners in 2008 and then spent three years apiece with the Cleveland Indians and Chicago Cubs before ending up in Houston in 2015. In all, he owns a career .232/.317/.394 slash line in 798 games.
His impact has increased over the past handful of years. Along with the aforementioned 66 home runs, he's tallied 184 RBI and 202 runs scored since the start of the 2013 campaign.
                                             


How much juice can the National Baseball Hall of Fame hold? We're going to find out.
The sea change in the voting for the Hall of Fame can't be ignored. It first became apparent when Mike Piazza, long suspected of needing performance-enhancing drugs to slug more homers than any other catcher, got into Cooperstown with 83 percent of the vote in 2016.
Now the revolution is projected to continue in 2017.
The latest Hall of Fame class won't be revealed until January 18, but all the votes were in on December 31. And thanks to Ryan Thibodaux, the tireless Samaritan who aggregates Hall of Fame ballots, we already know how the votes are trending:
@ 172 ballots/~39.5%:
Bags 92%
Raines 92%
Pudge 83%
Vlad 75%
Hoff 72%
Edgar 69%
BB 69%
RC 68%
Moose 62%
Schill 54%
s://t.co/PQK7gmI3NQ
With the cutoff for induction set at 75 percent, Vladimir Guerrero is too close to call. Otherwise, it looks like congratulations will soon be in order for Jeff Bagwell, Tim Raines and Ivan Rodriguez.
This trio's induction would draw applause from plenty but also raise eyebrows from others. Bags, Rock and Pudge come with big numbers but also with suspicion and/or baggage.
Bagwell was a muscly steroid-era slugger who admitted to using androstenedione to the Houston Chronicle (via Sports Illustrated's William Nack and Kostya Kennedy)—the stuff Mark McGwire was on.
Rodriguez, another steroid-era star, once gave a curiously vague response when he was asked about PEDs, per the Associated Press (via ESPN.com). Raines was in the back end of his career during the steroid era, but he did use cocaine during his prime with the Montreal Expos in the 1980s.
This is neither here nor there for those of us (hi there!) who see the scuzzier portions of baseball's past not as parts to be shunned but as those to be discussed and examined. But all should be prepared for the rabble about to be raised by a small army of handwringers. They'll echo the Hall of Fame's insistence on integrity and character and wonder if nothing is sacred anymore.
A word to the hand-wringers: If you don't like how those three are trending, you'd better not look at how Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens are doing.

Bonds, baseball's all-time home run king, and Clemens, its only seven-time Cy Young winner, debuted with just 36.2 and 37.6 percent of the vote in 2013. By last year, they had only climbed into the 40s.
Never mind the argument that Bonds and Clemens may be the greatest hitter and pitcher ever, respectively. This seemed to clarify that their status as poster boy 1A and 1B for the steroid era weighed more heavily.
But look! Now they're tracking at darn near 70 percent. "How about that?" says Mel Allen's ghost.
Although Bonds and Clemens will likely fall short of their current marks in the end, this is still writing on the wall that says their support is in for a major boost. With five years left on the ballot after this one, they finally have a light museum at the end of their tunnels.
Some things are random. Like lottery numbers. Or Bryce Harper's year-to-year performance.
But Bonds and Clemens' push to Cooperstown? That's not random.

This is an effect of the Hall of Fame's purging inactive baseball writers from the Baseball Writers Association of America voting bloc in 2015. That did away with a lot of older and out-of-touch voters, giving younger and more progressive voters more influence.
This is also an unintended consequence of the Hall of Fame's welcoming legendary manager Tony La Russa in 2014 and former MLB Commissioner Bud Selig this year. Juiced players (McGwire included) helped the former win 2,728 games and three World Series. Juiced players did the latter a huge favor by putting on a show that erased the 1994-1995 strike from memory and ushered in an era of unfathomable prosperity.
Selig's induction seems to be the real kicker for many voters. Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports recently offered a sampling of their thoughts, with the consensus being it's no longer fair to scorn the juiced-up labor of the steroid era while the beneficiaries of said juiced-up labor are going scot-free.
"When Bud was put in two weeks ago, my mindset changed," veteran Philadelphia sportswriter Kevin Cooney wrote to Passan in an email. "If the commissioner of the steroid era was put into the HOF by a secret committee, then I couldn't in good faith keep those two out any longer."
Clearly, the line in the sand has been redrawn. That doesn't just spell hope for Bonds and Clemens, but it also does so for other steroid-era stars gunning for Cooperstown. That's you, Gary Sheffield and Sammy Sosa. 
As for you, Manny Ramirez...uh...hmmm...
OK, you're a tough one.

It's easy to miss Ramirez on this year's ballot, but he's there. And his numbers loom large. He hit 555 dingers in a 19-year career and is one of only 13 players to accumulate more than 9,000 plate appearances and post a slash line better than .300/.400/.500.
The only number that matters, though, is the 26.7 percent Ramirez is polling at.
There's no big secret for why he's struggling. Ramirez enjoyed success during and after the steroid era but missed the memo when the era ended. Michael S. Schmidt of the New York Times reported in 2009 that Ramirez tested positive for PEDs in 2003. He was then busted and suspended for PEDs later that year. When he was caught again in 2011, he ducked the consequences by retiring.
Ramirez is the first superstar to have been caught riding dirty to appear on the ballot since Rafael Palmeiro in 2011. That doomed him to 11 percent of the vote that year and an early exit in his fourth year. Ramirez might last longer, but it looks like his fate will be the same.
Certainly, more players would have been caught and punished had there been rules and punishments during the steroid era. But it was a different time.

"There were no rules before 2004," wrote Bob Nightengale of USA Today. "No signs in clubhouses banning PEDs. You were free to take whatever you desired with no testing, no penalties, nothing."
The shorthand: There's a difference between breaking "rules" and breaking rules. As MassLive's Nick O'Malley's helpful compilation makes clear, this is a common refrain for voters regarding Ramirez.
Earth to Alex Rodriguez: This concerns you.
After retiring in 2016, Rodriguez isn't due on the ballot until 2022. Like Ramirez, he's an all-time great producer who had success during and after the steroid era. Also like Ramirez, he was on the 2003 list and later busted and suspended in 2014. 
For now, he's screwed. As much as the Hall of Fame voters are loosening their standards for PED guys, they still have some standards. They came for Palmeiro and Ramirez. They'll come for Rodriguez, too.
Unless, of course, another unexpected sea change comes along.
Before long, the effect of the Hall of Fame voting bloc's getting younger and more progressive will go from minor to major. As Jay Jaffe of Sports Illustrated pointed out after A-Rod's retirement, there will be an influx of analytically minded baseball writers starting in 2018.
If for no other reason than to reverse the effect of "small hall" thinking—MLB.com's Mike Petriello has a good article out on that—these voters could be more inclined to vote for Ramirez and Rodriguez. Modern times need more representation in Cooperstown. Like it or not, they're two of the biggest stars of modern times.
They also still have time to repair their images. Ramirez has already begun with his work with the Chicago Cubs. Rodriguez, meanwhile, played the good soldier on the field following his suspension and has since emerged as an extremely likable television analyst.
The other thing time can do is thin out the competition. In contrast to the tidal wave of superstars of recent years, the future should see only a slow drip of superstars onto the ballot. In the meantime, the 10-year limit will push some off the ballot. Others will get squeezed by the annual 10-player voting limit. Others still, such as Bonds and Clemens, will get voted in, leaving fewer titans to contend with.
This is better news for someone like David Ortiz, who was flagged for PEDs in 2003 but was never busted in 13 fruitful years after that, than it is for Ramirez and Rodriguez. But if nothing else, this is all basically Lloyd Christmas telling them there's a chance.
For good or ill, the Hall of Fame's days of just saying no to PED guys are over. We're in new territory, and the task of charting it is just beginning.
                    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. 


Some of the league's most dynamic offensive players call first base home.
Miguel Cabrera, Paul Goldschmidt, Anthony Rizzo, Joey Votto and Freddie Freeman are all elite sluggers and true superstars.
You won't find any of those players on the following list, though.
Ahead, we'll take a look at the 10 first basemen who, for a variety of reasons, will be worth keeping an eye on this spring.
Whether it's a player returning from a significant injury, an up-and-coming young player ready to step into a more significant role, an impending position battle or something else altogether, the following guys enter spring training with compelling storylines.

2016 Stats
        
Player Outlook
While John Jaso and David Freese were passable as a first base platoon for the Pittsburgh Pirates last season, there's plenty of room for improvement.
Here's where the team's first basemen ranked against the rest of the league:
Jaso and Freese will both return in 2017, but it's safe to say the door is wide-open for top prospect Josh Bell to seize the everyday job.
Bell already possesses an advanced approach at the plate, boasting a 9.9 percent walk rate against a 14.5 percent strikeout rate over his five minor league seasons.
The 24-year-old switch-hitter is still working to tap into his plus raw power. Unlike most first basemen, his hit tool outshines his power tool, but he has a chance to be an impact bat in the middle of the Pittsburgh lineup for years.
As long as he holds his own this spring, expect to see Bell penciled in as the starting first baseman on Opening Day.

2016 Stats
         
Player Outlook
Cody Bellinger treated Los Angeles Dodgers fans to a glimpse of what could be a bright future in his first extended Cactus League action last spring.
In camp as a non-roster invitee with a handful of other top prospects, Bellinger hit .393/.541/.679 with two doubles and two home runs over 37 plate appearances.
The 21-year-old didn't miss a beat making the jump from High-A to Double-A—a move that often separates the men from the boys—and he made the most of a late promotion to Triple-A, going 6-for-11 with three home runs.
A return to the minors for more seasoning seems like a foregone conclusion, but don't count him out as a potential impact player for the Dodgers in 2017.
Adrian Gonzalez is locked into the starting first base job through 2018, at which point Bellinger figures to replace him both defensively and as a key run producer in the middle of the lineup.
However, in the short term, Bellinger could be an option to help in the outfield.
He's more athletic than most first basemen and has played 53 games in the outfield as a pro, where he possesses decent range and a strong throwing arm.
Joc Pederson appears to be the only outfielder locked into a starting gig, so another strong showing this spring and slow starts from guys like Andrew Toles and Andre Ethier could present Bellinger with an opportunity earlier than expected.

2015 Stats (missed 2016 recovering from shoulder surgery)
        
Player Outlook
With Mark Teixeira riding off into the sunset and no significant free-agent addition made at the position, all signs point to Greg Bird's becoming the New York Yankees' starting first baseman in 2017.
The 24-year-old burst onto the scene in 2015, replacing an injured Teixeira and posting an .871 OPS with 11 home runs and 31 RBI in 46 games.
A nagging shoulder injury eventually led to surgery, though, and he was sidelined for 2016.
Even after getting reps in the Arizona Fall League, Bird's health this spring will be one of the biggest storylines out of Yankees camp.
According to Bird in a video on the team's Facebook page (via the New York Daily News), things are going well:
I think there will be work that has to be put in to get used to the swing again and get used to everything ... but I have no doubt in my mind that I can go out and perform this year like I want to perform. The doctor told me when he did the surgery, 'you're going to be amazed at how good this thing is going to feel when it's all said and done,' and technically it's not all said and done yet and it's already catching me off guard at times with how unbelievable it is in a lot of ways, so I'm excited.
If Bird needs extra time, Tyler Austin and Rob Refsnyder could form a viable platoon to start the season.
However, the Yankees are counting on the young slugger to carry a good chunk of the run-production responsibilities alongside Gary Sanchez and Matt Holliday, making him one of their biggest X-factors for 2017.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
The Colorado Rockies' decision to sign Ian Desmond to a five-year, $70 million deal and sacrifice their first-round pick in the process has been one of the most panned moves of the offseason.
Jonathan Bernhardt of FanRag Sports provided an interesting take on the signing, though:
Most optimistically, Desmond might be the Rockies version of what Jayson Werth was to the Nationals in 2011: a sort of coming-out signing, an announcement that Colorado is a team that’s willing to spend commensurate with the lofty economical state of baseball and commit to a yearly budget for players in the Top 10 to Top 15 teams of the league.
Desmond's addition led to brief speculation that Charlie Blackmon could be on his way out in Colorado, but no subsequent move has been made, and it's looking less likely one will occur.
That means for the second time in as many years Desmond will change positions. With Blackmon, Carlos Gonzalez and David Dahl lining up as the team's starting outfield, he'll shift to first base, where the club has a hole.
Aside from the position change and the hefty contract, Desmond will have plenty to prove after a dismal second-half performance.
The 31-year-old posted the fourth 20/20 season of his career and finished 2016 with strong overall numbers, but he had a .630 OPS with just 15 extra-base hits after the All-Star break.
The Rockies have emerged as a popular pick to be a dark-horse contender for the upcoming season. For that to happen, Desmond will need to make an impact.

2016 Stats
        
Player Outlook
Yulieski Gurriel is one of the most accomplished hitters ever to make the jump from playing internationally to playing stateside, joining the likes of Ichiro Suzuki and Hideki Matsui.
The 32-year-old spent 15 seasons playing in Cuba and Japan, racking up a .335/.417/.580 career line with 1,585 hits, 250 home runs and 1,018 RBI.
He joined the Houston Astros on a five-year, $47.5 million deal this past July. After a few weeks of shaking off the rust in the minors, he joined the MLB roster.
The question then became where he fit defensively.
With Alex Bregman staking claim to third base—Gurriel's natural position—it appears he'll shift across the diamond to first base for the upcoming season, assuming he beats out A.J. Reed, Tyler White and Marwin Gonzalez.
"Gurriel is very comfortable on the dirt at all four positions really," Astros general manager Jeff Luhnow told Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle. "Where we haven't really explored him is in the outfield, but I think at first base he's going to be an above-average defensive first baseman and we know he's going to be able to hit. So he's a good fit for us there."
With an offseason to settle in after a whirlwind 2016, Gurriel has to be considered alongside Boston Red Sox outfielder Andrew Benintendi as one of the leading contenders for AL Rookie of the Year honors.

2016 Stats
        
Player Outlook
The 2016 season was not a successful one for Oakland Athletics prospect Renato Nunez.
The 22-year-old posted mediocre numbers at best in Triple-A while watching fellow third base prospects Ryon Healy and Matt Chapman pass him on the organizational depth chart.
However, a tremendous showing in the Venezuelan Winter League has his stock once again trending up.
Nunez posted a .304/.389/.542 line with 11 home runs and 35 RBI in 45 games as the best hitter on a Tigres de Aragua team that included Marwin Gonzalez, Avisail Garcia, Hernan Perez and Eduardo Escobar.
So why include him here with the first basemen and not wait until we talk about the hot corner?
With Healy opening the season as the starting third baseman in Oakland and Chapman profiling as the best defender of the three, a shift to first base looks like an inevitability for Nunez.
In fact, it wouldn't be the least bit surprising to see him push Yonder Alonso for the starting first base job this spring after the incumbent ranked dead last among qualified first basemen with a .683 OPS last season.
Why the A's opted to avoid arbitration with Alonso on a one-year, $4 million deal remains something of a mystery, as he looked like a prime non-tender candidate.
At the very least, Nunez should be able to play his way into a platoon role after Alonso hit .227 against left-handed pitching.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
With Rougned Odor and Elvis Andrus both coming off strong 2016 seasons, it's clear Jurickson Profar will need to find somewhere else to line up defensively after coming through the minor leagues as a middle infielder.
"The Rangers already have their middle infield," Profar told Jeff Wilson of the Star-Telegram. "For me right now, it's just get ready and see what happens."
A glaring hole at first base makes that the most obvious landing spot for the 23-year-old, who played 17 games at the position last season while serving in a super-utility role.
There's still a chance the Rangers could sign someone to replace the departed Mitch Moreland, and they've shown interest in veteran Mike Napoli, according to Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News.
If Texas doesn't add anyone, Profar will compete with Joey Gallo and Ryan Rua for the starting job on Opening Day.
Gallo has a more classic first base profile with some of the best raw power in the sport, but he would benefit from more time in Triple-A as he works to cut down his prolific strikeout rate.
As for Rua, he's a useful player with a decent bat and valuable versatility, but he doesn't offer the same upside as the other two.
That leaves Profar—once considered by Baseball America and numerous other outlets to be the No. 1 prospect the game.
Will this be the year he justifies that hype?

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
The Toronto Blue Jays have an awful lot of power to replace after Edwin Encarnacion left in free agency and Jose Bautista likely follows suit.
Kendrys Morales and Steve Pearce have been the club's notable offseason additions. Both are capable of solid production, but those signings are more of a Band-Aid than a long-term solution.
However, part of that long-term solution could be 6'4", 220-pound prospect Rowdy Tellez.
The 21-year-old sported a stellar 12.3 percent walk rate last season while continuing to tap into his plus raw power, slugging 29 doubles and 23 home runs in a full campaign with Double-A New Hampshire.
He'll need to continue hitting to carve out an MLB role as a first base-only prospect, and he has all the tools to do just that.
MLB.com's Prospect Watch offered the following scouting report:
The left-handed hitter's swing is compact and explosive and he knows how to use the whole field to hit. He's quick enough to turn on good velocity but also has the strength and barrel control to drive the ball out of the park the other way. His approach and plate discipline have both improved as he's moved up the ladder, and he's not afraid to hit when behind the in count.
He'll head back to the minors to start the 2017 season, and he may not see Toronto until 2018, but expect the Blue Jays to give him a long look this spring.

2016 Stats
         
Player Outlook
It's a common occurrence for an MLB journeyman to migrate to Japan or Korea in search of more money or guaranteed playing time when the opportunities stateside run dry.
However, it's not often those players return to MLB prominence.
Cecil Fielder is perhaps the last, best example we have of a player taking that route to MLB success.
He spent his age-25 season in Japan after playing the first four campaigns of his career with the Toronto Blue Jays. He then returned to the majors a year later with the Detroit Tigers and promptly authored the first 50-homer season the league had seen in over a decade.
Now Eric Thames will look to follow in his footsteps after signing a three-year, $16 million deal with the Milwaukee Brewers.
Thames hit .250/.296/.431 with 21 home runs in 684 plate appearances with the Blue Jays and Mariners before joining the NC Dinos in 2014 for his age-27 season.
His three years in the KBO were spectacular:
The rebuilding Brewers and Thames are a perfect fit.
The 30-year-old gets to make his triumphant return in a low-pressure environment, while the Brewers could strike gold on a low-risk deal.

2016 Stats
      
Player Outlook
Dan Vogelbach is out from behind the immense roadblock that is Anthony Rizzo.
The 24-year-old had looked like an obvious trade chip for years, and the Chicago Cubs finally pulled the trigger last summer when they sent him to the Seattle Mariners for left-hander Mike Montgomery.
With Adam Lind's likely free-agent departure, Vogelbach appears to have a clear path to the starting first base job, or at least the bigger piece of a platoon with Danny Valencia.
Power has always been the carrying tool for Vogelbach, and he flashed as much as ever last season when he slugged a career-best 23 home runs at Triple-A.
He's not your typical all-or-nothing slugger, though.
With nearly as many walks (160) as strikeouts (163) over the past two seasons and a career .391 on-base percentage over six minor league campaigns, he has an MLB-ready approach.
Vogelbach should see plenty of RBI opportunities in a stacked Seattle lineup, and he could be a dark-horse contender for Rookie of the Year honors as one of the few AL rookies with a clear path to an everyday job.
       
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted.

Brandon Phillips is apparently still not ready to leave the Cincinnati Reds. 
According to Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports, the second baseman used his no-trade clause to block a potential deal to the Atlanta Braves in November.
The Braves instead acquired Sean Rodriguez to fill their infield needs, making any potential deal for Phillips unlikely.
However, on Friday, ESPN.com's Jim Bowden reported a deal to the Braves may not be dead just yet, but noted the situation is "difficult."
Phillips has been the subject of numerous trade talks in recent years but has not been shy about using his no-trade clause. He was unwilling to go to the Arizona Diamondbacks last offseason, and while a move to the Washington Nationals seemed likely, he refused to agree without an extension.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported in November that Phillips would be more likely to waive his no-trade clause this offseason, but that is seemingly not the case.
"This is where I want to be," Phillips said at the end of the 2016 season, per C. Trent Rosecrans of the Cincinnati Enquirer. "That's why I'm still here, I'm happy. I played great for this city. I proved a lot of people wrong. I love the haters. They motivate me."
The 35-year-old is a three-time All-Star with four Gold Glove awards, although he has lost a step in recent seasons. He did have a solid year with a .291 batting average and 34 doubles, but his 11 home runs were his second-fewest since becoming a regular in 2006.
After the Reds struggled to a 68-94 record last season, it makes sense for the team to want to move on from Phillips, who is in the final year of his contract, and play younger players while rebuilding. Cincinnati acquired second base prospect Dilson Herrera (22) from the New York Mets in a July trade for outfielder Jay Bruce.

The Cleveland Indians officially introduced prized free-agent signing Edwin Encarnacion on Thursday.
Paul Hoynes of Cleveland.com reported the sides finalized a three-year, $60 million contract after the former Toronto Blue Jays slugger passed a physical Wednesday. The deal also includes a fourth-year club option worth $25 million.
Zack Meisel of Cleveland.com highlighted the donning of the Tribe jersey for the first time:
How does he look? s://t.co/XqotU7Ci0G
Chris Antonetti, the Indians' president of baseball operations, admitted the reigning American League champions weren't sure they could make this type of offseason splash, per Jordan Bastian of MLB.com.
"At the start of the offseason, we didn't think this was possible," he said.
Meanwhile, Ben Nicholson-Smith of Sportsnet noted Encarnacion called Cleveland a "perfect fit," even though there's a part of him that's struggled with moving on from the Blue Jays.
Now that Encarnacion is a member of the Indians, Tom Withers of the Associated Press pointed out the star's focus has shifted to one thing: capturing the championship that slipped through Cleveland's grasp against the Chicago Cubs in last season's Fall Classic.
"I believe in this team, and I believe we can win the World Series," Encarnacion said.
OddsShark noted the oddsmakers agree the Indians are once again a serious threat to capture the American League pennant. They rank second behind only the Boston Red Sox in the current AL odds and third overall, with the defending champion Cubs the favorite to repeat as champions.
Encarnacion will carry a heavy burden if Cleveland is going to live up to those expectations. The Dominican Republic native has been one of the game's best power hitters over the past five years. He's hit at least 34 home runs every year during that stretch, including 42 homers last season for Toronto.
The 33-year-old marquee addition will probably split time between first base and designated hitter with Carlos Santana. They'll combine with Jason Kipnis, Francisco Lindor, Michael Brantley and Jose Ramirez to form a terrific top six in the order if Brantley can stay healthy after missing most of 2016.   
                                               


It's not easy to do what the New York Yankees have done. It's even tougher to do what they have to do next. 
In this era in which total rebuilds are all the rage and tanking is rewarded, the Yankees rebuilt their farm system without also suffering through a 101-loss season (like the Chicago Cubs) or 324 losses over three campaigns (like the Houston Astros). Three years after MLB.com said they had none of the top 60 prospects in the game, they have five of the top 51.
That doesn't even include Gary Sanchez, who turned 24 in December but graduated from prospect status when he hit 20 home runs in just 53 contests in 2016.
"The Yankees have the best (and deepest) farm system in the game," MLB.com's respected prospect analyst Jim Callis tweeted in December.
Great, so now they'll start winning, just like the Cubs did?
Not so fast.
"This is still a building year for them," said a National League scout who follows the Yankees and their farm system closely.
This is a building year, for sure, but it's also a crucial year. For all the good work general manager Brian Cashman and his staff have done, and for all the patience managing general partner Hal Steinbrenner has shown, they haven't yet built a team that can win.

You don't win with a rotation headed by Masahiro Tanaka, Michael Pineda and CC Sabathia, with nothing but question marks behind them. You don't win with uncertainty at so many positions in the field.
The Yankees didn't build to win last year (when they were the only team not to sign a major league free agent), and they haven't built to win this season (when they spent big on closer Aroldis Chapman and basically swapped Brian McCann for Matt Holliday as their designated hitter).
They're trying to remain competitive while building for what could be a bright future, and so far, they've done a good job with that.
The Yankees haven't won a postseason game since the 2012 Division Series—Derek Jeter, Robinson Cano, Curtis Granderson and Raul Ibanez played in that game—but they also haven't had a losing season since 1992.
But how do they get from here (impressive rebuild) to there (true championship contender)?
"The biggest issue they have, by far, is starting pitching," the NL scout said. 
In his view, the Yankees need to find a way to trade for Jose Quintana, who may not be an ace but is a 27-year-old left-hander who is already a solid major league starter. The problem, the scout acknowledged, is that the Chicago White Sox have been looking for prospect-heavy deals like the ones they made for Chris Sale (with the Boston Red Sox) and Adam Eaton (with the Washington Nationals).
"They're asking for blood and more," the scout said.
The Yankees weren't going to gut the farm system they just rebuilt to get Sale, so they certainly won't do it for Quintana. If they can get him for what they deem a reasonable price, though, a Quintana trade would be a good place to start.
If not, then just wait.
With or without Quintana, the Yankees likely won't win in 2017. There aren't other obvious rotation upgrades available right now, but there will be. Unless he signs an extension, Jake Arrieta will be a free agent next winter. The Detroit Tigers would trade Justin Verlander for the right price. Clayton Kershaw can opt out of his contract after 2018. So can David Price.
If they don't do anything stupid between now and then, the Yankees will be in position to chase whichever ones they want.
Mark Teixeira and Alex Rodriguez are already gone. Sabathia's contract expires after this season. The Yankees might get under the luxury-tax threshold next winter, and in any case, they have just $74.2 million committed to five players for 2019.

There will always be speculation the Yankees will spend a big chunk of that money to sign Bryce Harper, who can be a free agent after 2018. In December, my friend Ken Davidoff of the New York Post named Harper "most likely to be a Yankee" out of the 2018 class.
I don't doubt it, but so much depends on what happens between now and then. Can Harper recover from a subpar 2016 season? Will a big-hitting outfielder even be the Yankees' most pressing need then? Would they be better off signing Manny Machado to play third base? Will they need to spend all their money on pitching?
Things change from year to year, as the Yankees know only too well. Twelve months ago, Luis Severino was one of the stars of the rebuilding process, a front-end starting pitcher ready to blossom. Now, the Yankees aren't even sure he's a starting pitcher at all.
They need to find out more this year about Severino and about fellow young starters Luis Cessa, Chad Green and Bryan Mitchell. They need to see if the progress James Kaprielian showed in the Arizona Fall League was real and whether fellow pitching prospects Justus Sheffield and Domingo Acevedo develop as true rotation options.
They need to find out if Greg Bird is the answer at first base and whether Aaron Judge can overcome his swing-and-miss issues to be a dependable power source in right field. They need to watch shortstop Gleyber Torres and outfielder Clint Frazier—their reward for trading Chapman and Andrew Miller last summer.
"I think Frazier is playing right field for them before the year's over," the NL scout said. "And I wouldn't be surprised if Torres plays second, with [Starlin] Castro moving to third."
It's nice for the Yankees and their fans to think about, because it's fun to imagine talented players developing. But it's also a challenge, because the next decisions will cost more (in money and/or prospects) and have bigger consequences.
Two decades ago, the Yankees made all the right decisions at a similar point. They kept Jeter and Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera while trading highly rated (but not as good) prospects like Matt Drews and Russ Davis.
They built a team that won year after year. They dream of doing it again.
The decisions they make over the next 24 months could determine whether it happens.
      
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. 
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

OK, so the 2016-2017 MLB offseason hasn't been the wild spending bonanza that last winter's offseason was. But as evidence that it hasn't been all bad, I submit 15 contracts worth at least $20 million.
How about we pass the time by ranking them?
Let's go from the worst to the best. Or, put another way, from the biggest bust to the biggest steal. This is going to require weighing a multitude of factors, but they can be boiled down to a couple of basic questions:
We're not about to begrudge any players for accepting too much or too little. We're looking at things from a team-building perspective. The ideal contract is a low cost for a good player who fills a need and propels the signing team toward contention. 
Fairly unscientific, but it's an easy gist to get. So, let's get to it.

Edinson Volquez pitched 189.1 innings in 2016, which is good. But he also posted a 5.37 ERA, which is bad. After that, nobody figured to be pining for him this winter.
At least not until the Miami Marlins accepted the challenge.
In their defense, they had to sign somebody for their starting rotation. It was wildly mediocre in an 82-loss season in 2016 even before their best starter tragically died. And in signing the 33-year-old Volquez, at least they're getting something of a proven commodity.
"With Edinson, you have an experienced All-Star who's been a world champion," president of baseball operations Mike Hill said, via Andre C. Fernandez of the Miami Herald. "I think he'll fit in nicely on our staff and gives us another proven starter that logs innings and can have a really good year."
The innings should be there. Volquez has averaged over 190 per year since 2014. But banking on them to be good innings? That's a stretch. He's fallen far as a strikeout artist while continuing to struggle with walks. And after experiencing a home run spike at Kauffman Stadium, Marlins Park may not save him.
The Marlins might have been rewarded for being patient rather than jumping on Volquez. Ivan Nova, a younger and better pitcher, just signed for only $26 million. They also could have rescued the perception of Volquez's deal by signing one of the market's elite relievers. Instead, they whiffed on all three.
Thus, good money for Volquez doesn't look like such a good deal for the Marlins.

Kendrys Morales' contract looks suspiciously like the three-year, $30 million contract that Billy Butler signed with the Oakland A's in 2014.
To this end, it's more than a defensible deal for the Toronto Blue Jays. Morales is older now (33) than Butler was then (28). But he's also coming off a much better season. Whereas Butler OPS'd just .702 for the Royals in 2014, Morales OPS'd .795 for the Royals in 2016.
If Morales could do that while playing half his games at Kauffman Stadium, the Blue Jays can be optimistic about what he could do at the Rogers Centre. The two parks are typically on opposite ends of the hitter-friendliness spectrum.
However, signing Morales did effectively take the Blue Jays out of the running for incumbent slugger Edwin Encarnacion. And after watching him sign for a reasonable $60 million, one wonders if the Blue Jays overestimated Encarnacion's market when they quickly pivoted to Morales in November.
Further, Nick Ashbourne of Sportsnet.ca covered how signing Morales doesn't help Toronto's roster flexibility. He's strictly a DH, so the position is no longer available as a place to rotate veteran hitters. One of the effects of that is making the Blue Jays less of an obvious fit for Jose Bautista, whose market would otherwise be pushing him back to a comfortable landing in Toronto.
Morales' contract is thus a rarity: a solid deal that could nonetheless do more harm than good to an established contender.

The Minnesota Twins had some bad pitching in 2016, but that's nothing new. The team's 4.61 ERA since 2011 is easily the worst among American League clubs.
He may not be a pitcher, but Jason Castro should be able to help.
The 29-year-old's best quality is his ability to frame pitches. Per Baseball Prospectus, he was fifth in MLB with 12.8 framing runs in 2016. That's music to the ears of a Twins team that dealt with subpar framing from all its catchers.
"The whole idea of signing Jason Castro, a lot of it was measured on the impact of catching on a staff," manager Paul Molitor said, via Rhett Bollinger of MLB.com. "As we've learned more about how to quantify that, it's probably been a little bit of an undervalued position for guys that handle some of those types of things better than others. We thought that was a big piece in trying to at least start off a way of trying to figure out a way to pitch better."
Castro's weakness is his bat. The lefty swinger has managed just a .660 OPS since 2014, and he's only getting worse against left-handed pitching.
But this doesn't make his contract unreasonable. It's not too dissimilar to the three-year, $31 million extension that Francisco Cervelli, a fellow framing savant, signed in 2016. If that's the going rate for an elite framer with an OK bat, then a contract for an elite framer with a bad bat would look like Castro's.
Of course, Castro alone isn't going to turn the Twins from a 103-loss team into a contender. But since that's out of the question anyway, it's nice to see them taking steps to solve their pitching problem.

Until this winter, Jonathan Papelbon's $50 million contract was the largest ever for a relief pitcher. Aroldis Chapman's $86 million deal from the New York Yankees tops that by a whopping $36 million.
This makes sense on some levels. Five years have passed since Papelbon signed his deal, and elite relief pitching is valued more now than it was then. To that end, Chapman's 1.84 ERA and rate of 15.7 strikeouts per nine innings since 2012 are tops among all relievers. It's also an important distinction that he was not tied to draft-pick compensation.
Nonetheless, we are talking about a monster contract for a guy who will pitch one inning at a time. And the risk going forward is palpable.
Chapman's defining characteristic has been his triple-digit heat. But with 383 career appearances in his past and his age-29 season in his immediate future, the velocity he's had to this point may be running short on staying power. Even if an injury doesn't take it all in one fell swoop, it could decline gradually.
This would be an acceptable risk if the Yankees were in a position to win now. But they're still in rebuilding mode after gutting their roster throughout an 84-win season in 2016. They don't figure to get back into win-now mode until 2018 or 2019. On the off chance Chapman isn't a shell of his old self by then, he could use his opt-out to abandon ship after 2019.

If nothing else, Ian Desmond's $70 million contract with the Colorado Rockies makes for a heartwarming story.
This is the same guy who once turned down a $100 million contract offer. After that came a disastrous 2015 that killed his value. Then came a 2016 that re-established it, as he OPS'd .782 with 22 homers and 21 steals while making a smooth transition from shortstop to the outfield.
So, here he is. And $70 million isn't an outrageous price in a vacuum. Desmond basically got Alex Gordon money, which is fair given their similar ages (Desmond is 31, Gordon was 31 last year) and sets of skills.
The catch is the Rockies' plan to stash Desmond at first base. This is a waste of Desmond's athleticism. It's also a bad place to put a bat that, while good, is nothing special by the position's high standards.
It's also hard to view Desmond as a missing link. The Rockies had the National League's most productive offense in 2016 and still lost 87 games. Their goal needs to be stockpiling pitching, not hitting.
The good news is that the Rockies do have some exciting arms in their farm system. The bad news is that they punted a major chance to add another when they signed Desmond. His ties to draft-pick compensation cost them the No. 11 pick in the 2017 draft.
In essence, the Rockies have paid a big price to take a small step forward.

Did the St. Louis Cardinals really give four years and $30.5 million to a left-handed specialist?
On the surface, yes. But in reality, perhaps not.
Based on what Brett Cecil did between 2013 and 2015, the Cardinals signed a good reliever, period. Across 189 appearances in those three seasons, he put up a 2.67 ERA and struck out 11.5 batters per nine innings. He notably suppressed both right-handed (.205 AVG) and left-handed batters (.206 AVG). 
Cecil's age-29/30 season in 2016 was less impressive. He was limited to 54 appearances by an arm injury and put up a modest 3.93 ERA. He also permitted a .275 average to righties.
But even in counting that, FanGraphs' Jeff Sullivan noted that Cecil compared favorably to Darren O'Day, who got a four-year, $31 million contract last winter. As such, Cecil's contract was actually defensible at the time he signed it in late November.
With several relievers signing for tens of millions more in the ensuing weeks, Cecil's deal now looks downright petty. It also added depth to a Cardinals bullpen that struggled with that in an 86-win 2016 season and without blocking the team from making another significant signing.
On balance, this once silly-seeming contract isn't too bad.

Josh Reddick entered the offseason as a platoon outfielder who didn't help his value with a rough stint on a contending team to close out the 2016 season.
That made Gerardo Parra an easy comp, seemingly putting Reddick in line for something like three years and $30 million. He obviously got quite a bit more than that, so...What's the deal?
Well, Reddick's overall track record is quite good. The 29-year-old has put up a solid .766 OPS since 2014, including an .847 OPS against right-handed pitching. Having a left-handed hitter who can do that is a nice piece for a Houston Astros lineup that skewed right-handed in 2016.
"Pitchers are not going to have too many soft spots in our lineup, day in and day out," general manager Jeff Luhnow said, via Richard Dean of MLB.com. "We've seen him in the division a bit in the past few years. We've seen him burn us with his arm and with his bat, so it's great to have him on our side." 
Reddick gives the Astros a quality defensive outfielder next to center fielder George Springer. His contract also didn't bar them from signing Carlos Beltran and Charlie Morton and trading for Brian McCann. In all, a team that won 84 games in 2016 is primed to be a lot better going forward.
This doesn't completely erase the sense that the Astros gave Reddick more money than they had to. But they are getting a solid player for their money, and they might not have been able to make additional moves had they splurged for Yoenis Cespedes, Dexter Fowler or Ian Desmond instead.
Not a steal, but a good enough deal.

Once Chapman signed for $86 million, it was apparent even in the far reaches of space that Kenley Jansen would sign for something similar.
Thus, there was a lot of head nodding when the Los Angeles Dodgers brought him back on an $80 million contract. With a 2.22 ERA and 13.6 K/9 since 2012, Jansen is one of few relievers who can claim to have been close to Chapman's level over the last five years. If not on his level.
Having just turned 29, Jansen is also basically the same age as Chapman. He's also worked in just 26 more games. Hence, the similarity of their contracts.
Jansen's advantage, though, is in how he figures to age.
Because he didn't start pitching professionally until 2009, Jansen's arm was spared a lot of early wear and tear. He also has a signature pitch that's not dependent on velocity to be effective. He goes right at hitters with a filthy cutter, an approach that worked for Mariano Rivera for a long time.
There's also the difference in where the Dodgers are compared to where the Yankees are. The Dodgers are in win-now mode after a fourth straight NL West title in 2016. Once Chapman and Mark Melancon were off the board, they had no choice but to re-sign Jansen to stabilize an otherwise shaky bullpen.
Of course, it must be acknowledged that $80 million is still a lot of money for a one-inning reliever. But of the two such contracts that have been signed this winter, this one makes a lot more sense.

Nobody went into the winter thinking that Mark Melancon would have as much earning power as Chapman or Jansen.
But once Cecil signed his eyebrow-raising contract, it was clear Melancon would have more earning power than anticipated. It thus wasn't surprising when he exceeded Papelbon's record contract by $12 million.
It also wasn't surprising that the money came from the San Francisco Giants.
The Giants had everything except a reliable closer in 2016, and it cost them. Had it not been for an MLB-high 30 blown saves, they would have won more than 87 games in the regular season and might have upset the Chicago Cubs in the postseason.
The gripe here is that Melancon doesn't fix the velocity shortage the Giants have in their bullpen. He only sits in the low 90s with his cutter. But he hasn't needed to light up radar guns to be effective. Movement and location make him an excellent contact manager, as evidenced by his recent soft-contact mastery. In all, he has a 1.80 ERA since 2013—the lowest of any pitcher who's appeared in over 100 games. 
Look at him squarely from that perspective, and the Giants filled their biggest need by signing the actual best reliever for significantly less than the supposed best relievers got. And they didn't even have to give up a draft pick, either.
Bravo, fellas.

The Pittsburgh Pirates entered the winter in a tight spot after winning just 78 games in 2016.
They had the foundation to contend but needed to add more. To their rotation, specifically. It's a tough assignment in this winter more than most, and one made tougher by the club's limited resources.
All this should have blocked them from re-signing Ivan Nova. As for how they brought him back for just $26 million, my guess would be hypnosis.
In November, Jim Bowden of ESPN and MLB Network Radio reported that Nova was fielding offers similar to the three-year, $36 million contract that J.A. Happ landed last winter. That seemed fair enough. Happ landed his contract after turning his career around in a short stint in Pittsburgh. Nova did the same thing, going from a career 4.41 ERA with the Yankees to a 3.06 ERA in 11 starts for the Pirates.
Relative to the offers he was supposedly fielding, getting Nova for just $26 million is a steal for the Pirates. And more so than any other team that might have signed him at that price, they now have a chance to turn it into a major steal.
Nova will get to keep working with Pirates pitching coach Ray Searage, who is responsible for fixing the 29-year-old in the first place. If he can keep working his magic on Nova, the Pirates will get the reliable arm their rotation sorely needed behind Gerrit Cole.

Want another heartwarming story? How about a 36-year-old who signed for five times his career earnings to date.
Rich Hill earned it. Injuries and ineffectiveness seemed to have killed his career for good when he found himself pitching in independent ball in 2015. But he reinvented himself, forging a path back to the majors and making the most of it. Here are the league's top ERAs since 2015:
The caveat is that Hill has logged only 139.1 innings in 24 starts. He made only four starts in 2015 and was limited by injuries to 20 in 2016. At his age and with his track record of injuries, the Dodgers can't count on him carrying a big workload.
But then, they don't need to. They just need Hill to dominate when he can pitch. When he can't, they can lean on their considerable depth.
“We feel like with his quality, we’re probably less reliant on the quantity than some other teams might be, because of our upper-level pitching prospects that got some experience last year,” president of baseball operations Andrew Friedman said, via Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times.
Even if the Dodgers only get 100 innings per year out of Hill, look at it this way: He has the talent to dominate in those innings and could thus provide more dominant innings than Chapman, Jansen and Melancon at a much cheaper rate.

As much as the Cardinals needed a reliever, they needed a center fielder more. 
The lineup the Cardinals had in 2016 could definitely hit, finishing third in the NL in runs and OPS. But their starting nine was less proficient at catching the ball. What didn't help that was asking Randal Grichuk to fake being a center fielder in 106 games.
Dexter Fowler, on the other hand, is a true center fielder. And a solid one, as it turns out. The metrics were down on him for a long time, but that changed in 2016 when he adjusted his positioning.
On the other side of the ball, Fowler is a switch-hitter with a career .366 on-base percentage. The Cardinals will deepen their lineup by stashing him in the leadoff spot and moving Matt Carpenter into the middle of their order.
Fowler's red flag is durability. He's averaged just 129 games per season since 2013, and that's not improving now that he's past the age of 30. Between paying Fowler $82.5 million and sacrificing the No. 19 pick in the 2017 draft, the Cardinals are making a sizable bet on no sure thing.
In context, however, this is defensible. Fowler's market got a boost after Reddick and Desmond signed for big digits. The Cardinals could have either backed away from Fowler after that or bit the bullet and filled their biggest need. Kudos to them for doing the latter.
Mind you, catching the Cubs will be a tall order. But at least the Cardinals now have a fighting chance.

The big negative of the New York Mets re-signing Yoenis Cespedes is so obvious that we might as well get right to it.
With Cespedes back in the fold, an outfield that would have been overcrowded with corner outfielder types anyway is now even more overcrowded with corner outfield types. Cespedes, Curtis Granderson, Jay Bruce and Michael Conforto are all worthy of playing time. That's three guys for four spots, and the awkwardness is heightened by the reality that none can do a decent impression of a center fielder.
On the bright side, this isn't exactly a new problem for the Mets.
They had an awkward outfield depth chart in 2016 too, and it didn't stop them from winning 87 games. They had the strengths to overcome it, most notably a strikeout-happy pitching staff and an offense that hit a lot of home runs.
Cespedes led the way in the former with a team-high 31 dingers. The Mets would have been in deep trouble if they let those go. By bringing Cespedes back, they've essentially retained all the qualities that made them one of the NL East's top teams.
The cost, meanwhile, is no more than what the Mets could have been expected to pay. They responded to Cespedes' huge 2015 season by paying him $27.5 million for 2016. He ended up having a similarly productive year, so a multi-year contract worth $27.5 million per year adds up.

When Edwin Encarnacion signed for $60 million, seemingly everyone had the same reaction: "Is that it?"
He was supposed to go for more than that. Nelson Cruz's (four years, $57 million) and Victor Martinez's (four years, $68 million) contracts seemed like good places to start in negotiations. Experts like those at MLB Trade Rumors figured Encarnacion would land closer to $100 million.
That Encarnacion fell well short could be a sign of the times. His main attraction is power that's produced 193 home runs since 2012. But after home runs have come roaring back in the last two seasons, his main attraction isn't that attractive anymore.
Regardless, Encarnacion's power is a terrific fit for a Cleveland Indians club that needed to fill Mike Napoli's shoes. Their $60 million has bought them a significant upgrade. Napoli was basically a league-average hitter in 2016. Encarnacion ranks among the league's best since 2012.
Granted, $60 million is still more than Cleveland has ever paid any other free agent. They also lost the No. 25 draft pick to sign Encarnacion. 
But now's no time for the Indians to be frugal. They just went to the World Series and darn near won it. They had most of the pieces they needed to get the job done sometime in the immediate future.
They just needed the last piece. They got it at a very good price.

Looking at his $64 million contract, I wonder if Justin Turner neglected to mention that he was arguably the best free agent on this winter's market.
According to FanGraphs, Turner has racked up just 0.4 fewer wins above replacement than Cespedes since 2014 despite playing in 57 fewer games. He's been an excellent two-way player, posting an .856 OPS on offense and rating as easily above average on defense.
Coming off his age-31 season, Turner did have the age question hanging over his head. But he also didn't become an everyday player until 2014, making him well-preserved for a guy his age. That plus his recent track record should have resulted in one of the winter's richest contracts.
Not exactly, as it turns out. And considering that he's arguably a better player than Desmond, Jansen, Fowler, Chapman and Cespedes, his deal looks even more like a steal when viewed in context.
Making it even sweeter for the Dodgers is that they got this steal in the one area where they had the least negotiating leverage. They had other free-agent options for their rotation and bullpen outside of Hill and Jansen. There weren't any other free-agent options for their hole at third base. They would have been in a bind if they hadn't been able to lure Turner back.
But, they did. And in so doing, they returned a major piece to their lineup and positioned themselves for more NL West titles.
                                         
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. 

We're several cold, soggy weeks away from pitchers and catchers reporting to spring training. Baseball remains an abstraction—a distant, beautiful dream.
Still, it's not too early to gaze through the winter haze toward a few key spring position battles and make some premature predictions.
We'll stay away from bullpen and fifth-starter skirmishes since the remaining free-agent targets are sure to reshape many of those. Instead, let's zero in on three high-profile playoff hopefuls with question marks and logjams in the outfield and at the hot corner, keeping in mind that injuries and trades can quickly change the calculus. 
Until the hot stove crackles again, warm your hands with the following.
     
The Los Angeles Dodgers' Outfield Glut
From a quantity standpoint, the Los Angeles Dodgers are set in the outfield. Their depth chart includes Joc Pederson, Yasiel Puig, Andrew Toles, Andre Ethier, Trayce Thompson and Scott Van Slyke.
Pederson, who turns 25 in April, hit 25 home runs last season and has the speed and on-base capabilities to evolve into a star player despite his .224 career MLB average.
After that, it's a disconcerting jumble.
Puig is just 26 years old and possesses five-tool potential, but he's a mercurial enigma whose future with the Dodgers was recently in grave danger. 

Toles is a great story, but he's got a grand total of 115 big league plate appearances under his belt and was briefly out of baseball and working in a grocery store in 2015.
Ethier broke his leg in spring training and wound up posting a .208/.269/.375 slash line in 16 games. Thompson showed flashes in an 80-game stint but dealt with a back injury and hit .225. Van Slyke posted an identical .225 average in 52 games.
"There are only so many at-bats to go around," Dodgers skipper Dave Roberts said, per ESPN.com's Doug Padilla. "As we sit here with six or possibly seven guys who are major league players, those at-bats are hard to divvy up right now."
Assuming Los Angeles doesn't deal away and/or trade for an outfielder before the start of spring, who emerges?
Toles looks like the front-runner in left field, provided his .314/.365/.505 slash line wasn't a mirage. 
In right, it'll likely come down to Puig and Ethier. The latter turns 35 in April but was a solid contributor in 2015, hitting .294 with 14 home runs.
Don't count out Puig, however. He posted a .900 OPS with four home runs in the season's final month. The Dodgers would also benefit from his success no matter what.
Either Puig starts raking again and helps them win or he puts up strong numbers and they trade him for a significant haul at the deadline or next winter.
Prediction: The Dodgers begin the season with Toles in left, Pederson in center, Puig in right and Ethier and Thompson as the fourth and fifth outfielders.
      
The Boston Red Sox's 3rd Base Gamble
The Boston Red Sox are rolling the dice at third base. They sent Travis Shaw to the Milwaukee Brewers in the deal that netted reliever Tyler Thornburg. They shipped out top prospect Yoan Moncada in the Chris Sale blockbuster.
That leaves Pablo Sandoval as the front-runner to win the job. It makes sense from a financial perspective; Sandoval is owed at least $59.8 million over the next four seasons. Boston wants him to succeed.
Whether he will is another matter. 

Sandoval was an unmitigated disappointment in 2015, his first year with Boston, slashing .245/.292/.366. Last season, he showed up to spring training notably out of shape and made just seven plate appearances before undergoing season-ending shoulder surgery.
The Kung Fu Panda appears to have slimmed down. He's just 30 years old and only a few seasons removed from All-Star-level production with the San Francisco Giants.
As Boston seeks to repeat as division champion and atone for last season's division series sweep, however, a little competition at third seems like a good idea.
Enter Brock Holt, who made 11 regular-season starts for the Red Sox at third base in 2016 but started all three of Boston's playoff games at the position. 
The 28-year-old hit .255 last season with seven home runs in 94 games. He may be best suited for a utility role. That's undoubtedly where Boston will stick him if the svelte Sandoval delivers.
A scalding spring from Holt, however, coupled with further decline from Sandoval, could force the Red Sox's hand.
Prediction: Sandoval wins the job, but Holt keeps nipping at his heels.
      
The Chicago Cubs' Kyle Schwarber Conundrum
The Chicago Cubs are the World Series champs and one of the most complete teams in baseball.
They've also got some things to unravel in the outfield, particularly surrounding young slugger Kyle Schwarber.
It begins at second base, where Javier Baez is ready to take over. That pushes versatile veteran Ben Zobrist to left or right field and creates a traffic snarl at the other two outfield spots.
Center field could be a righty-lefty time-share between Albert Almora Jr. and newly signed Jon Jay. Despite his offensive futility, Jason Heyward checked in as the best defensive right fielder in the National League last season.
Where does that put Schwarber?
The 23-year-old grades out as a below-average defender at both corner outfield spots. He's also had experience behind the dish but sits behind Willson Contreras and Miguel Montero on the depth chart.
Schwarber's stick, however, is too stout for a part-time role. He hit 16 home runs in 69 games as a rookie in 2015 and returned from a devastating knee injury to post a .971 OPS in the 2016 World Series.
As Steve Rosenbloom of the Chicago Tribune put it: "He's dangerous to himself and his team in the outfield, but oh, that bat." 

The obvious answer is that Cubs manager Joe Maddon likes to mix and match, so all the players mentioned will get time.
Assuming everyone stays healthy, however, someone will get squeezed.
Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein gave Heyward, who is owed more than $28 million in 2017, a vote of confidence. 
"We believe in Jason Heyward and his ability to tackle things head-on and make the necessary adjustments," Epstein said, per Patrick Mooney of CSN Chicago. "And I think you're going to see a much different offensive player next year."
Heyward can also play center field. He logged 171 innings there for the Cubs last season and posted four defensive runs saved. 
Again, Maddon will shuffle his chess pieces. If we're betting on an Opening Day alignment, however...
Prediction: Zobrist will start in right field, Heyward in center and Schwarber in left—with ample mixing and matching.
       
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com. 

Starting pitcher Tyson Ross was one of the marquee free agents remaining on the market, but he has reportedly found a new home. 
Continue for updates.
TR Sullivan of MLB.com reported that Ross signed a one-year deal with Texas, although financial details weren't disclosed.  
On Jan. 4, Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports deemed the Chicago Cubs and Texas Rangers the favorites after meeting with the right-hander. Sullivan said the "Rangers really like Tyson Ross and are being aggressive in trying to get a deal done."
Sullivan noted that Ross started Opening Day for the San Diego Padres but didn't pitch again during the 2016 season because of shoulder inflammation. He then had thoracic outlet syndrome surgery in October, which led to the Padres' decision to opt against tendering him a contract.
R.J. Anderson of CBSSports.com wrote that Texas' starting staff "remains messy behind Yu Darvish and Cole Hamels" even though it signed Andrew Cashner this offseason. Anderson suggested Ross could be a third starter for the Rangers if he is healthy again in 2017.
There are clear questions about Ross' health for the Rangers. Still, he is just 29 years old and has proved in the past he can be an ace-like asset on the mound. He appeared in more than 30 games in three straight seasons before 2016 and posted head-turning ERA numbers in his three full years in a Padres uniform:
There is more risk involved for Texas based on its sheer need for starting pitching, but the reward is also enticing. It is no wonder the team met with him as spring training approaches.

Colorado Rockies pitcher Chad Bettis has been declared cancer-free after a November surgery removed a malignant testicle.
"I'm feeling great. Got an early Christmas present. Doctor said I was cancer-free. Ready to push forward," Bettis said on MLB Network Radio on Wednesday.
Bettis, 27, is expected to be ready for spring training. He went 14-8 with a 4.79 ERA and 1.41 WHIP across 32 starts last season.
"My understanding is that I will be physically ready to have a normal spring training, and I greatly look forward to the upcoming season," Bettis told ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick. "I thank my friends and family for their love and kindness and ask that privacy be shown to both my wife and myself until spring training begins."
A former second-round pick, Bettis is 23-19 with a 5.01 ERA and 1.49 WHIP since first coming up to the majors in 2013. He has been part of the Rockies' regular starting rotation in each of the last two seasons. While his standard numbers aren't impressive, Bettis has posted a combined 4.4 WAR in 2015 and 2016, with his FIP indicating he's a product of bad luck, per FanGraphs.
The Rockies don't have much in the way of elite starting pitching, so Bettis' health is paramount to their 2017 chances. Bettis will likely be their No. 2 or No. 3 starter if he gets clearance from doctors to pitch in the regular season.
Of course, all of this pales in comparison to the good news that Bettis has been given a clean bill of health. Bettis said he will have to undergo a blood test every three to six months going forward, but he was not subject to any chemotherapy or radiation treatment, per Patrick Saunders of the Denver Post.
"This only reinforces my belief that each of us needs to be totally in tune with our own physical health, and that taking action sooner than later when we feel like something is off can sometimes literally be the difference between life and death," Bettis told Crasnick. 
       
Follow Tyler Conway (@jtylerconway) on Twitter.

We're still over a month away from pitchers and catchers making their way to sunny Arizona or Florida, and the hot stove has cooled considerably, so now seems like the perfect time for an updated look at how all 30 MLB farm system stack up.
A handful of early offseason trades and a pair of winter meetings blockbusters have provided us with plenty of updating to be done since these rankings were last updated following the conclusion of the MiLB season.
We'll likely update and tweak the rankings a few times before the start of the regular season, but the following will serve as a baseline for offseason prospect talks going forward.
The following factors helped determine the rankings of players and teams:
We've incorporated a tier system to help differentiate between the different levels of talent. Here's a quick explanation: 
Along with an updated list of the top 10 prospects for each team, you'll also find some general analysis on each team's top prospects and the outlook of the farm system as a whole.
A player must not have passed the rookie-eligibility limits (130 AB, 50 IP, 45 days on roster) to be eligible for inclusion in these rankings.

Top 10 Prospects
         
Farm System Update
The Los Angeles Angeles once again check in with the worst farm system in baseball.
Toolsy outfielder Jahmai Jones takes over as the team's new No. 1 prospect after hitting .302 with an .801 OPS and 20 stolen bases last season. The 19-year-old has a chance to push his way into Tier 1 status if he can duplicate that performance in his full-season debut.
Virginia slugger Matt Thaiss and Georgia high school outfielder Brandon Marsh were the team's top two picks last June. Thaiss will move as quickly as his bat allows, while Marsh figures to be something of a prospect but one that could be well worth the wait.
It speaks to the lack of quality arms in the system that 25-year-old Nate Smith and 27-year-old Alex Meyer are the team's top two pitching prospects. Both could see time in the majors in 2017, though neither profiles as much more than a swingman.
Reliever Keynan Middleton is the name to watch as far as 2017 impact is concerned. He was terrific over three levels last season after making the transition to the bullpen, posting a 3.41 ERA, 1.14 WHIP and 12.0 K/9 to earn a spot on the 40-man roster.

Top 10 Prospects
              
Farm System Update
With Braden Shipley and Archie Bradley both exhausting their rookie eligibility last season, the Arizona Diamondbacks have a new top pitching prospect and No. 1 overall prospect in left-hander Anthony Banda.
He may not have overpowering stuff, but he proved his low-minors success was for real with a terrific season split between Double-A and Triple-A, and he could get a long look for a rotation spot this spring.
Dawel Lugo entered the 2016 season with 17 career home runs over four minor league seasons. He had doubled that total before the year was over, posting a .311/.339/.492 line and not missing a beat when he was promoted to Double-A. Originally a shortstop, his future now appears to be a third base and his bat should play.
Outfielder Socrates Brito, starter Taylor Clarke and reliever Jimmie Sherfy should all see time with the big club during the upcoming season, while polished left-hander Alex Young is not far behind.
However, none of those players—aside from Brito if all the pieces fall into place—have all that high of a ceiling, and the D-Backs system as a whole is sorely lacking in impact talent.

Top 10 Prospects
            
Farm System Update
You just can't teach a 102 mph fastball.
Josh Staumont still has a lot of work to do in the control department, evidenced by his 104 walks in 123.1 innings last season, but if he can harness his electric stuff, the sky is the limit.
"There's nobody we have that throws the ball as easy and as hard as he does," assistant general manager J.J. Picollo told Jeffrey Flanagan of MLB.com. "Even when he's throwing 98 it looks like he's just playing catch."
Former first-round pick Hunter Dozier finally lived up to his lofty draft status with a breakout season in 2016, and he's ready to make an impact at the MLB level. Whether he's viewed as the heir to Mike Moustakas at third base or settles in at a corner outfield spot remains to be seen.
Matt Strahm will get a crack at winning a rotation spot this spring after thriving in a relief role last season. The left-hander debuted on July 31 and posted a 1.23 ERA, 1.09 WHIP and 12.3 K/9 with six holds in 21 appearances.
All three of those players could push into the Tier 1 level with another step forward, but there's a steep drop-off behind them in the system.

Top 10 Prospects
         
Farm System Update
The Miami Marlins system is propped up by left-hander Braxton Garrett, who was taken with the No. 7 overall pick last June and immediately slotted in the organization's No. 1 prospect spot.
With a strong 6'3" frame and a polished three-pitch repertoire that is highlighted by a plus curveball, he could move quicker than most high school arms.
That's good news considering Luis Castillo will still need to prove his breakout season in the lower levels of the minors was the real deal, while hard-throwing Tyler Kolek continues to recover from Tommy John surgery.
Third baseman Brian Anderson is trending upward after hitting .273/.360/.506 with five home runs and 12 RBI in the Arizona Fall League.
Lefty Dillon Peters stands just 5'9" and lacks elite velocity, but he's also a prospect on the rise after posting a 2.38 ERA, 1.08 WHIP and 105 strikeouts in 128.2 innings between High-A and Double-A.

Top 10 Prospects
               
Farm System Update
Just like the Miami Marlins system, the Detroit Tigers received a shot in the arm last June when they grabbed a talented high school arm that now slots in as their No. 1 prospect.
Matt Manning is the classic hard-throwing, projectable right-hander that the Tigers have made a habit of targeting over the years, and the two-sport star could take off with his full attention now turned to the baseball diamond.
Christin Stewart is right on the fringe of Tier 1 status after posting a .903 OPS with 30 home runs last season. His lack of other tools outside of his bat and a drop-off in production after a late promotion to Double-A hold him back for now, though.
Kyle Funkhouser returned to Louisville for his senior season after going No. 35 overall in the 2015 draft and wound up slipping to the fourth round after an up-and-down spring. However, he finished his collegiate career strong and followed it up with an impressive pro debut so the Tigers may have walked away with one of the steals of the draft.
Considering the lack of quality depth at the plate and on the mound in the system, they could use a draft steal here and there.

Top 10 Prospects
              
Farm System Update
The Baltimore Orioles climb a few spots thanks to catcher Chance Sisco jumping up to Tier 1 after he enjoyed a breakout season at the plate in 2016.
There's still work to do defensively, and the team's decision to sign Welington Castillo means Sisco won't need to be rushed. He's right there alongside Francisco Mejia (CLE) and Jorge Alfaro (PHI) in the conversation for top overall catching prospect.
The stalled development of Hunter Harvey drops him out of the top 10 for the time being as he'll need to prove he can get and stay healthy to reclaim his top prospect status.
That leaves 2016 draft picks Cody Sedlock and Keegan Akin as the team's top pitching prospects, while 6'5" teenager Ofelky Peralta is one to watch if his secondary stuff comes around after he struck out 101 in 103.1 innings in his full-season debut.
Big seasons from young slugger Jomar Reyes and on-base machine D.J. Stewart after fairly disappointing 2016 campaigns would be a nice boost to the system.

Top 10 Prospects
                   
Farm System Update
With Lewis Brinson, Luis Ortiz and Dillon Tate shipped out at the trade deadline and Joey Gallo finally exhausting his rookie status, the upper tier of the Texas Rangers farm system has thinned considerably over the past year.
Yohander Mendez was one of the breakout prospects of 2016, and he now takes over as the team's No. 1 prospect, though he could be pushed by teenager Leody Taveras.
Mendez began the season at the High-A level and closed it out with two appearances out of the MLB bullpen, as he went 12-3 with a 2.19 ERA, 1.02 WHIP and 113 strikeouts in 111 innings in the minors.
As for Taveras, he landed a $2.1 million bonus as one of the top international prospects in the 2015 class and quickly lived up to the hype while making his way stateside in his pro debut. He has a long way to go, but the ceiling of a future All-Star.
Ariel Jurado gives the team another quality pitching prospect, albeit one with little projection remaining in his 6'1", 180-pound frame. He has the highest floor in the system.
Ronald Guzman and Andy Ibanez should both be ready for a crack at the majors down the stretch in 2017. Guzman could wind up being the long-term answer at first base, while Ibanez may wind up being trade bait given the crowded middle infield situation.

Top 10 Prospects
                        
Farm System Update
Amed Rosario has left little question he's the shortstop of the future for the New York Mets after hitting .324/.374/.459 with 42 extra-base hits and 19 stolen bases and actually seeing an uptick in his production following a promotion to Double-A.
All signs point to him taking over the starting gig in 2018.
Dominic Smith figures to join him as a staple in the Mets' infield, and he could arrive in the majors first after hitting .302 with an .824 OPS, 29 doubles and 14 home runs in a full season with Double-A Binghamton.
The full-season debut of outfielder Desmond Lindsay will be among the most anticipated around the league after the 2015 second-round pick hit .303 with nearly as many walks (25) as strikeouts (31) and he has a chance to emerge as a true five-tool talent.
Left-hander Thomas Szapucki and catcher Tomas Nido will be two prospects to watch after both exceeded expectations last season, and it will be interesting to see if right-hander Robert Gsellman can duplicate his MLB success as well.

Top 10 Prospects
                            
Farm System Update
With Byron Buxton, Jose Berrios, Max Kepler and Jorge Polanco all graduating to the next level, the Minnesota Twins system slides into the bottom half of the organizational rankings.
That's not to say there is not still quality young talent in the system, though, as shortstop Nick Gordon and left-hander Stephen Gonsalves are both top-50 caliber prospects.
Gordon has all the tools to be an everyday shortstop, and his hit tool has developed better than most anticipated, while Gonsalves has arguably surpassed the aforementioned Berrios as the best young arm in the organization.
The player to watch here is Fernando Romero.
"It's possible Romero would be talked about now as one of the better pitching prospects of the game if he hadn't gotten hurt. But the talented right-hander needed Tommy John surgery after just three starts in 2014, missing the rest of that and the 2015 season," wrote MLB.com's Prospect Watch.
He returned to action last season to go 9-3 with a 1.89 ERA, 0.90 WHIP and 90 strikeouts in 90.1 innings between Single-A and High-A and he could be ready for a major breakout.
Tyler Jay, Kohl Stewart and Adalberto Mejia all have relatively high floors and should be able to bolster the MLB staff in the relatively near future, while 2016 first-round pick Alex Kiriloff has the high ceiling to jump up to Tier 1 in short order.

Top 10 Prospects
                        
Farm System Update
The winter meetings deal to acquire Adam Eaton from the Chicago White Sox cost the Washington Nationals Lucas Giolito, Reynaldo Lopez and Dane Dunning, three players who would have easily cracked the organizational top 10.
Flipping three of the top pitching prospects in the organization—including two of the top pitching prospects in all of baseball—leaves an expected void as the team is now thin on quality young arms.
Erick Fedde still has No. 3 starter upside, and Koda Glover has power stuff to close down the line, but there's no one close to the caliber of Giolito or Lopez.
That said, there's a good chance outfielder Victor Robles would have claimed the No. 1 prospect spot even if Giolito and Lopez were still around.
The 19-year-old possess the full toolbox, and it was all on display in his full-season debut. He posted a .798 OPS with 34 extra-base hits and 37 stolen bases while striking out just 77 times in 504 plate appearances and threw in 14 outfield assists for good measure.
Pedro Severino might be the catcher of the future, and A.J. Cole could take off with a move to the bullpen, so those two will be worth keeping an eye on in 2017.

Top 10 Prospects
             
Farm System Update
A potential future outfield of Tyler O'Neill, Kyle Lewis and Mitch Haniger should be cause for excitement among Seattle Mariners fans, especially considering the current state of the outfield.
Haniger should get a crack at winning the starting left field job this spring after coming over from the Arizona Diamondbacks and experiencing an uptick in power last season, while O'Neill and Lewis both have legitimate All-Star upside.
Dan Vogelbach will join Haniger in getting a chance to win an MLB job this spring, and he could form a nice platoon at first base with Danny Valencia.
Luiz Gohara and Nick Neidert remain the top two pitching prospects in the organization, but they could soon be pushed by Max Povse.
The towering 6'8" right-hander was acquired from the Braves in a rare prospect-for-prospect swap that sent outfielder Alex Jackson to Atlanta. He has some projection remaining, and if he can clean up his curveball, he has a chance to be a quality MLB starter.

Top 10 Prospects
                  
Farm System Update
The San Francisco Giants did not have a first-round pick last June.
That didn't stop them from walking away with two of the better college bats in the class, as Bryan Reynolds (No. 59 overall) and Heath Quinn (No. 95 overall) look to be two of the biggest steals of the draft.
Reynolds could push his way into Tier 1 before the end of his first full season as a pro, while Quinn will need to prove he has the contact skills to tap into his plus power.
The top two spots in the system still belong to Christian Arroyo and Tyler Beede for the time being, though.
Arroyo followed up his breakout 2015 season with a somewhat disappointing encore, hitting .274 with a .689 OPS in Double-A, though a strained oblique played a role.
He'll likely move to third base or a corner outfield spots with Brandon Crawford firmly entrenched at shortstop, and both positions are lacking a long-term answer.
Meanwhile, Beede may never live up to the front-line potential he flashed at Vanderbilt as he continues to be plagued by inconsistent command, but he's ready for the next level after posting a 2.81 ERA with 135 strikeouts in 147.1 innings for Double-A Richmond.

Top 10 Prospects
                        
Farm System Update
The St. Louis Cardinals have two of the game's best pitching prospects in Alex Reyes and Luke Weaver, both of whom got a taste of MLB action last season.
Reyes might be the favorite for NL Rookie of the Year if he were guaranteed a spot in a somewhat crowded MLB rotation, though both could benefit from a little further seasoning in the minors.
Then there's Delvin Perez, who fell into the Cardinals' laps at No. 23 overall last June. A presumptive top-five pick leading up to the draft, he saw his stock plummet after a positive PED test, but he remains a Gold Glove-caliber defender with plus speed and the offensive potential to be an All-Star at the shortstop position.
Catcher Carson Kelly and outfielder Harrison Bader could both be in the majors by the second half of the upcoming season, with Kelly looking more and more like the catcher of the future after his bat finally caught up to his glove.
If there's one name to watch in an organization that has had tremendous success developing hard-throwing international signees it's Sandy Alcantara.
The 21-year-old struck out 153 batters in 122.2 innings last season thanks in large part to a fastball that touches 101 mph. He backs it with a decent changeup-curveball combination. It's simply a matter of refining his command, and he could quickly take over as the team's top pitching prospect once Reyes and Weaver graduate.

Top 10 Prospects
                                      
Farm System Update
A disappointing season from Anthony Alford and the slow development of Richard Urena has opened the door for a pair of new headliners in the Toronto Blue Jays system.
Sean Reid-Foley is now the clear top dog among the team's pitching prospects after going 10-5 with a 2.81 ERA, 1.01 WHIP and 130 strikeouts in 115.1 innings between Single-A and High-A. He could join the league's upper echelon of pitching prospects if he duplicates that performance in Double-A.
Then there's the precocious Vladimir Guerrero Jr., who made his U.S. debut last year and looked right at home as a 17-year-old in the Appalachian League, posting an .808 OPS with 23 extra-base hits in 276 plate appearances.
Conner Greene still has a high ceiling, though his strikeout (7.8 to 6.1 K/9) and walk (2.7 to 4.4 BB/9) rates both trended significantly in the wrong direction last year.
Slugger Rowdy Tellez often gets overlooked as a first-base-only prospect, but his bat continues to impress as he posted a .917 OPS with 23 home runs and 81 RBI in Double-A. He could see the majors in 2017 and the same goes for outfielder Harold Ramirez.
Vlad Jr. may get the bulk of the attention, but another famous son in Bo Bichette turned heads with a .427/.451/.732 line that included nine doubles, four home runs and 32 RBI in 22 games after going No. 66 overall last June.
Oh, and his bat flip game is real strong.

Top 10 Prospects
                               
Farm System Update
The Boston Red Sox undoubtedly improved with the winter meetings acquisition of Chris Sale, but the move didn't do their farm system any favors.
Sale cost the No. 1 prospect in the league (Yoan Moncada), the top pitching prospect in their system (Michael Kopech) and a high-ceiling outfielder who would have cracked the organization's top 10 as well (Luis Alexander Basabe).
That leaves the system somewhat depleted but by no means bereft of impact talent.
Andrew Benintendi has to be the early favorite for AL Rookie of the Year honors after racing through the minors and hitting .295/.359/.476 with 11 doubles in 118 plate appearances with Boston.
Rafael Devers and Jason Groome also check in as Tier 1 talents, while Sam Travis, Bobby Dalbec and Josh Ockimey give the system a trio of intriguing power bats.
Roniel Raudes is the name to watch, though.
The 18-year-old has a rare feel for pitching and advanced command of his three-pitch repertoire. Even if there's not a ton of projection left in his 6'1" frame, he has middle-of-the-rotation upside and won't turn 19 until later this month.

Top 10 Prospects
                        
Farm System Update
The Tampa Bay Rays acquired Drew Smyly and Nick Franklin in the deadline deal that sent ace David Price to the Detroit Tigers in 2014, but it's the development of the third player acquired in that trade—shortstop Willy Adames—that will ultimately determine how they fared.
Adames took a big step forward in a full season with Double-A Montgomery, hitting .274/.372/.430 and displaying significantly improved in-game power with 31 doubles and 11 home runs.
A late-season promotion to put him in line for the everyday shortstop job in 2018 seems likely.
Brent Honeywell looks to be the next in a long line of homegrown starters to be developed into part of the MLB rotation. The right-hander was 7-3 with a 2.34 ERA, 1.03 WHIP and 117 strikeouts in 115.1 innings while reaching Double-A.
Jake Bauers also earns Tier 1 status as he remains well ahead of the developmental curve. If he were a right-handed batter, he might get a crack at a roster spot out of camp, though he figures to arrive at some point in 2017 either way.
Outfielder Jesus Sanchez is the name to watch here after he hit .329/.351/.549 with 10 doubles, eight triples and seven home runs in 226 plate appearances over a pair of rookie league stops.
"If Sanchez’s bat plays at a full-season affiliate in 2017, I can see him making a case for top 100 consideration after that, yes," wrote Hudson Belinsky of Baseball America. "The reports on him are really exciting."

Top 10 Prospects
                                   
Farm System Update
It's a testament to the Chicago Cubs scouting and player development departments that they still rank in the upper half of the league in terms of farm system talent considering all the young players that have graduated to the majors in recent years.
Kris Bryant, Kyle Schwarber, Addison Russell, Javier Baez, Willson Contreras, Carl Edwards Jr. and Albert Almora Jr. have all moved on to the next level since the start of 2015, not to mention top prospect Gleyber Torres being traded to the New York Yankees last summer.
And yet, they still have a trio of top-tier prospects, headlined by outfielder Eloy Jimenez, who finally turned potential into production with a breakout season in 2016.
Meanwhile, pitching prospects Dylan Cease and Oscar De La Cruz both have incredibly high ceilings and could be ready to turn in breakout seasons if the organization lets out a bit more leash on those prized arms.
Prospects like Mark Zagunis, Jeimer Candelario and Donnie Dewees are lacking a clear path to MLB playing time and closing in on being MLB ready, so they could wind up being trade chips a la Dan Vogelbach.

Top 10 Prospects
                             
Farm System Update
The San Diego Padres have perhaps the youngest collection of top prospects in these rankings, with five teenagers earning a spot among their top 10 prospects.
That includes right-hander Anderson Espinoza, the prize of the trade that sent Drew Pomeranz to the Boston Red Sox last summer.
The 18-year-old has drawn comparisons to Pedro Martinez in the past, and he's well ahead of the development curve as he gets set for his second year of full-season ball.
Cuban left-hander Adrian Morejon, who landed an $11 million bonus in July, possesses similarly intriguing upside on the mound. His four-pitch repertoire flashes plus across the board and includes a knuckleball that he works into sequence, something rarely seen at the pro level.
As for prospects closer to making an impact in San Diego, outfielders Manuel Margot and Hunter Renfroe are both slated to break camp with starting jobs this coming season.
Margot has the wheels to make an impact atop the lineup and defensively in center field, while Renfroe has the prototypical right fielder profile with big-time power and a rocket arm.

Top 10 Prospects
                                            
Farm System Update
The blockbuster deal that sent Rich Hill and Josh Reddick to the Los Angeles Dodgers last summer landed the Oakland Athletics a trio of pitchers who now rank among the team's top five prospects.
Jharel Cotton turned heads following that trade when he jumped into the MLB rotation and went 2-0 with a 2.15 ERA and 0.82 WHIP in five starts.
Finally healthy, Frankie Montas still has a chance to be the best of the bunch, and if his AFL showing is any indication (17.0 IP, 7 H, 1 ER, 9 K), he's ready to make an impact at the highest level.
Renato Nunez has also boosted his stock with a strong offseason showing, hitting .304/.389/.542 with 11 home runs and 35 RBI in 45 games in the Venezuelan Winter League.
With Ryon Healy already reaching the majors and both Matt Chapman and Nunez knocking on the door, it will be interesting to see how the team deploys a trio of natural third basemen.
The newcomer to the top prospect rankings is right-hander Daniel Gossett, who went 10-6 with a 2.69 ERA, 1.08 WHIP and 151 strikeouts in 153.2 innings while climbing three levels to reach Triple-A.

Top 10 Prospect
                         
Farm System Update
Even after shipping outfielder Clint Frazier and left-hander Justus Sheffield to the New York Yankees in the Andrew Miller deal, the Cleveland Indians still have a farm system that is knocking on the door for a spot inside the top 10.
Francisco Mejia takes over as the club's top prospects after hitting .342/.382/.514 with 29 doubles, 11 home runs and 80 RBI while compiling a 50-game hitting streak along the way. He also possesses perhaps the strongest throwing arm of any catching prospect.
Right-hander Triston McKenzie jumps up to the No. 2 spot after a dominant showing in short-season ball that carried over into a six-start stint in Single-A. All told, he finished 2016 with a 1.62 ERA, 0.96 WHIP and a 104-to-22 strikeout-to-walk ratio over 83.1 innings.
Brady Aiken still has the upside that made him the No. 1 overall pick in 2014, and he could take a major step forward another year removed from Tommy John surgery.
As for MLB impact, look out for Yandy Diaz, who has nothing left to prove in the minors after hitting .318/.408/.446 between Double-A and Triple-A.

Top 10 Prospects
                     
Farm System Update
Nick Senzel wasted little time making his mark as a pro after the Cincinnati Reds selected him No. 2 overall last June.
After a 10-game stint in rookie ball, he made the jump straight to Single-A, hitting .329/.415/.567 with 23 doubles, seven home runs and 36 RBI in 251 plate appearances. It wouldn't be the least bit surprising to see him manning third base with the MLB club by the second half of 2018.
Amir Garrett held opponents to a .192 average while striking out 132 batters in 144.2 innings as the former St. John's basketball player continues to make the transition from athlete to pitcher.
Jesse Winker and Robert Stephenson were once the headliners in this system, but they've lost some of their luster while spinning their tires in the upper levels of the minors.
Taylor Trammell was probably the best athlete in the 2016 draft as he turned down D-1 football offers to begin his pro baseball career and a .303/.374/.421 line with 24 steals in 61 games with certainly a promising start.
Years from now, the T.J. Friedl story could be one we look back on as a key moment in the Reds' rebuild.

Top 10 Prospects
                                
Farm System Update
The Colorado Rockies have begun reaping the rewards of a farm system that has been ranked among the best in baseball for several years running.
Jon Gray emerged as the team's best starter, and David Dahl hit .315/.359/.500 in 237 plate appearances to secure his spot as the starting left fielder.
Catcher Tom Murphy, outfielder Raimel Tapia and starters Jeff Hoffman and German Marquez figure to be next to get a crack at establishing themselves at the MLB level, and both Murphy and Hoffman should break camp with the team this spring.
The team did well to stock up on pitching talent in the June draft, scooping up the electric-armed Riley Pint at No. 4 overall and then adding college arms Robert Tyler and Ben Bowden with their next two picks.
Ryan Castellani also quietly turned in a breakout season as the 2014 second-round pick pitched to a 3.81 ERA, 1.23 WHIP and 142 strikeouts in 167.2 innings while flashing middle-of-the-rotation potential.

Top 10 Prospects
                           
Farm System Update
The Philadelphia Phillies drop a few spots after Tier 1 pitcher Jake Thompson used up his rookie eligibility down the stretch and adding more pitching talent to the system figures to be a focus as they continue the rebuilding process.
They have some good young rotation options in the likes of Aaron Nola, Vincent Velasquez, Jerad Eickhoff, Alec Asher and Thompson, but the well has run a bit dry as far as minor league talent is concerned.
Franklyn Kilome has legitimate front-line potential with a fastball that can reach the upper 90s and a good curveball, but he'll need to develop a viable third pitch to avoid winding up at the back of the bullpen.
At the top of the system, shortstop J.P. Crawford stalled a bit in his development after most expected him to claim the starting shortstop job by midseason last year. He still has all the tools to be a franchise cornerstone, though.
One way or another, Crawford will arrive in the majors in 2017, and he'll likely be joined by outfielders Nick Williams and Roman Quinn and catcher Jorge Alfaro as the youth movement kicks into full swing.
It will be interesting to see if Rhys Hoskins (.943 OPS, 38 HR, 116 RBI) and Dylan Cozens (.941 OPS, 40 HR, 125 RBI) can come close to duplicating their huge 2016 numbers away from extremely hitter-friendly Reading.

Top 10 Prospects
             
Farm System Update
Even with Joe Musgrove exhausting his prospect status in September, the Houston Astros still have one of the best farm systems in the game.
Francis Martes, David Paulino and 2016 first-round pick Forrest Whitley draw the bulk of the attention among the club's pitching prospects, but Franklin Perez could soon blow past all of them if his 2016 performance is any indication.
Perez, 19, made the jump straight to full-season ball in his first year stateside and posted a 2.84 ERA, 1.23 WHIP and a 75-to-19 K/BB ratio over 66.2 innings. With a mid-90s fastball, terrific curveball and a ton of projection remaining in his 6'3", 197-pound frame, he might have the highest ceiling in the organization.
While Kyle Tucker has separated himself from a talented pool of outfield prospects, unheralded Ramon Laureano is closing in on him after posting a .319/.428/.528 line that included 28 doubles and 15 home runs between High-A and Double-A.
Yulieski Gurriel still qualifies as a "prospect" even though he'll turn 33 in June. He looks like the favorite to win the starting first base job as he enters the second year of a five-year, $47.5 million deal.

Top 10 Prospects
             
Farm System Update
The Pittsburgh Pirates will be as reliant on prospect talent as anyone during the upcoming season.
Josh Bell is set to take over as the starting first baseman, while both Tyler Glasnow and Steven Brault figure to make an impact in the starting rotation.
That's to say nothing of Austin Meadows, who is waiting in the wings should the team find a taker for Andrew McCutchen. He struggled a bit with the jump from Double-A to Triple-A, but all signs point to him being ready for an MLB job at some point in 2017.
The Pirates also boast two of the league's breakout prospects in right-hander Mitch Keller and shortstop Kevin Newman.
Keller went 9-5 with a 2.35 ERA, 0.92 WHIP and 138 strikeouts in 130.1 innings after being limited by injuries in his first two seasons in the organization.
Newman, the No. 19 pick in the 2015 draft, hit .320/.389/.426 with 21 doubles while reaching Double-A in his second pro season.

Top 10 Prospects
                    
Farm System Update
The Los Angeles Dodgers have shown a willingness to include right-hander Jose De Leon in trade talks with the Minnesota Twins for Brian Dozier, but fellow righty Yadier Alvarez has been a non-starter, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
It was a tough call as far as who would get the No. 1 spot here, and that wound up being the deciding factor.
Alvarez landed a massive $16 million bonus as part of the Dodgers' international free-agent bonanza in 2015, and he did not disappoint in his debut, posting a 2.12 ERA and 1.03 WHIP with 81 strikeouts in 59.1 innings.
With a fastball that touches 100, a biting slider and a developing changeup, he has the repertoire and his 6'3", 175-pound frame has room to mature.
Cody Bellinger, Alex Verdugo and Willie Calhoun give the team a trio of loud offensive prospects, and all three could emerge as franchise staples by 2018. Calhoun still needs to find a position defensively, but his bat will play anywhere.
Walker Buehler and Jordan Sheffield give the system a pair of Vanderbilt alums with solid upside and relatively high floors, while Yusniel Diaz was also part of the 2015 spending spree when he secured a $15.5 million bonus so there's obviously significant potential there as well.

Top 10 Prospects
                               
Farm System Update
It's not often you see a team jump from No. 23 to No. 4 in these farm system rankings, especially considering the last iteration was published at the conclusion of the 2016 MiLB season.
Then again, it's not often that you see a team acquire four top-100 prospects—including arguably the top position-player prospect and pitching prospect in the game—in the span of 48 hours.
The Chicago White Sox are finally in full-blown rebuild mode after shipping out Chris Sale and Adam Eaton for a king's ransom in prospect talent.
It's easy to dream on a future rotation of Lucas Giolito, Michael Kopech, Reynaldo Lopez, Carson Fulmer and Carlos Rodon, with flame-thrower Zack Burdi anchoring the bullpen.
Don't count out Alec Hansen, either, as someone with legitimate front-line upside.
A candidate to go No. 1 overall at the start of his junior season, Hansen turned in a disappointing spring and slipped to the second round. He finished his collegiate career strong, though, and then posted a 1.32 ERA with 81 strikeouts in 54.2 innings in his pro debut.
First-round selection Zack Collins also impressed in his pro debut, and the White Sox picked up another 2016 first rounder in Dane Dunning as part of their haul from the Washington Nationals as well.

Top 10 Prospects
            
Farm System Update
The Milwaukee Brewers farm system has been drastically improved since the start of the 2014 season, and a number of their top-tier prospects are on the cusp of making an impact the MLB level.
Lewis Brinson, Luis Ortiz and Phil Bickford all joined the organization in 2016 deadline deals, while Corey Ray was the team's top draft pick out of Louisville.
Add to that infielder Mauricio Dubon, who was acquired in the deal that sent Tyler Thornburg to the Boston Red Sox during the winter meetings, and the Brew Crew has added an impressive amount of high-end prospect talent in the last six months alone.
That being said, it's the breakout performances of Isan Diaz and Brandon Woodruff that may have been the most exciting development of the past year.
Diaz continued to rake with an .827 OPS, 34 doubles and 20 home runs at the Single-A level, proving his impressive 2015 showing was the real deal.
Meanwhile, Woodruff went 14-9 with a 2.68 ERA, 1.02 WHIP and 173 strikeouts in 158.0 innings as the big 6'4" right-hander and former 11th-round pick established himself as a legitimate rotation candidate.

Top 10 Prospects
                       
Farm System Update
It's almost worth calling the Atlanta Braves team "1A" in these rankings, as they could very well have 10 or 11 prospects who fit the Tier 1 bill by the end of the upcoming season.
For the time being, we'll take a wait-and-see approach with outfielder Ronald Acuna and shortstop Kevin Maitan, but both are supremely talented and just scratching the surface of their potential.
Kolby Allard and Mike Soroka have established themselves as the top dogs in a system that is absolutely loaded with high-ceiling pitching talent.
Along with the six pitchers listed above, guys like Touki Toussaint, Joey Wentz, Kyle Muller and Lucas Sims would earn a spot inside the top 10 with almost any other team.
Dansby Swanson and Ozzie Albies headlined the position-player talent, and those two could emerge as one of the best young double play combinations in baseball as early as next season.
It's also worth mentioning here the excluded position players as Travis Demeritte, Alex Jackson, Austin Riley and Rio Ruiz all have significant upside as well.
They might not have the same collection of top-tier talent as the No. 1 team in these rankings, but I have no qualms saying the Braves have the deepest farm system in baseball.

Top 10 Prospects
                             
Farm System Update
The emergence of Gleyber Torres during the Arizona Fall League cemented the New York Yankees place at No. 1 on this list, otherwise, the Atlanta Braves might have unseated them.
Torres hit a ridiculous .403/.513/.645 with more walks (14) than strikeouts (8) to claim AFL MVP honors and, he just turned 20 years old last month.
If there was any question who the better middle infield prospect was between Torres and incumbent Jorge Mateo at the time of the Aroldis Chapman trade, they've vanished.
Justus Sheffield still takes top billing among the team's pitching prospect, but a strong late-season return from elbow issues and an impressive showing in the AFL has James Kaprielian nipping at his heels.
While Aaron Judge has some work to do on his approach after striking out a dizzying 42 times in 95 plate appearances in the majors last season, he still qualifies as a Tier 1 prospect thanks to his huge power potential.
There's a lot to like about a future outfield of Judge, Clint Frazier and Blake Rutherford.
All eyes will be on Chance Adams at the start of 2017 as he looks to prove his insane 2016 numbers (13-1, 2.33 ERA, 0.90 WHIP, .169 BAA, 144 K, 127.1 IP) were the real deal and that he's capable of sticking as a starter long term.
                                            
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com, unless otherwise noted.

Nobody's going to criticize the New York Mets for re-signing Yoenis Cespedes to a four-year, $110 million deal. Despite already having a full complement of outfielders under contract, Cespedes is unquestionably the key piece of the team's offense.
But with Cespedes back in the fold, this glut of outfielders has limited the Mets' ability to improve elsewhere—namely in the bullpen.
"It’s like buying a new house without selling your old one," Mets general manager Sandy Alderson remarked in early December, per Joel Sherman of the New York Post. "Sometimes you get stuck in the transition, and it’s not a good place to be."
No, it's not. 
But there's a market for some of those excess outfielders, namely Jay Bruce and Curtis Granderson. In fact, the Mets could potentially unload one of them in exchange for one of the players we're about to look at—a New Jersey native who would represent a major addition to their relief corps.
As for the rest of the targets on this list, the Mets' odds of adding them likely depends on just how much payroll room they're able to create.

The Mets have three left-handed relievers on their roster who could potentially replace Jerry Blevins—Josh Edgin, Sean Gilmartin and Josh Smoker—but they'd be much better off if they just re-signed the genuine article.
But according to Brendan Kuty of NJ Advanced Media, the veteran reliever is looking for a three-year deal that pays around $5 million per year through his age-36 season. That might be too rich for the Mets, even for a player with whom they're comfortable and familiar.
Still, it's hard to argue that he's not worth that kind of investment. Blevins pitched to a 2.79 ERA and 1.21 WHIP over 73 relief appearances last season, holding left-handed hitters to a .636 OPS. He was even tougher against right-handed batters, who mustered an even more mediocre .611 OPS against him.

Of all the targets we're going to look at, few make as much sense for the Mets than Baltimore reliever Brad Brach.
Brach, a New Jersey native, has been stellar as a setup man for the Orioles. He pitched to a combined 2.61 ERA and 1.13 WHIP since 2014 and is coming off a career-best season. He posted a 2.05 ERA, 1.04 WHIP with 92 strikeouts over 79 innings of work, earning his first All-Star nod in the process.
Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported in early December that the two teams had discussed a potential deal that would have sent Jay Bruce or Curtis Granderson back to Baltimore. But the Orioles wanted the Mets to pick up some of the money left on their deals, according to Joel Sherman of the New York Post.
That was a deal-breaker, apparently. But it shouldn't be.
Brach, who has two years of team control remaining, is projected to earn $2.9 million in 2017, per Tim Dierkes of MLB Trade Rumors. Even if the Mets were to pick up half of the money due to Bruce ($13 million) or Granderson ($15 million), they'd still be shaving a few million off of their payroll.
The Orioles, of course, remain in need of bats, and Bruce or Granderson could fill the team's void in either right field or as a designated hitter. A deal between the two clubs almost makes too much sense to not take place.
 

With a suspension of at least 30 games likely awaiting closer Jeurys Familia for violating MLB's joint domestic violence policy, the Mets will have to turn to Addison Reed and Hansel Robles to close things out in the season's opening month.
That's hardly appealing, as it's been years since Reed was asked to fill that role, and Robles has never been asked to lock things down at the end of games with any regularity.
We can't say the same of Greg Holland, who had established himself as one of the game's premier closers before undergoing Tommy John surgery in October 2015.
Holland hasn't thrown a pitch in more than a year, but the 31-year-old had established himself as one of the game's premier closers before surgery forced him to the sidelines. Now healthy, Holland would be a terrific short-term replacement for Familia.
He'd also add some much-needed depth to a bullpen that manager Terry Collins tends to lean a bit too heavily on. A foursome of Holland, Reed, Robles and Familia would give Collins more trustworthy options late in games, enough to keep everyone's workload a bit more reasonable.

Like Jerry Blevins, Boone Logan is a left-handed reliever in his early 30s with a substantial track record of success. He too has experience pitching in New York, having spent four seasons (2010-2013) with the New York Yankees.
While he posted peculiar splits in 2016—Logan was far better at hitter-friendly Coors Field than he was on the road—there's plenty of reason to think he should find more success away from Colorado in 2017.
Logan kept the ball on the ground nearly 50 percent of the time, and he posted a 16.4 percent swinging strike rate that was as good as Andrew Miller's, with the two tied for eighth-best among relievers who logged at least 40 innings of work in 2016.
He's more of a power pitcher than Blevins—Logan's fastball averaged 93.9 mph compared to 89.6 mph for Blevins, per Brooks Baseball—and he might be looking for more money than his fellow southpaw as well.
Logan, who signed a three-year, $16.5 million deal the last time he went through free agency, figures to be looking for a pact with a higher annual value than the $5 million figure Blevins reportedly seeks.

If the Mets don't wind up shedding some salary by moving one of their excess outfielders and ownership forces Alderson to shop in the bargain bin for bullpen reinforcements, Joe Smith is one pitcher who could be on the team's radar.
The 32-year-old allowed a career-high eight home runs over 52 innings of relief—including four in just 14.2 frames with the Chicago Cubs—and he wasn't nearly as effective as his 3.46 ERA season would indicate.
But he does have a lengthy track record of success, pitching to a 2.93 ERA and 1.20 WHIP over a 10-year career that began with the Mets back in 2007. Smith is worth gambling on as a bounce-back candidate on a cheap one-year deal.
 
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs.

Signing All-Star closer Mark Melancon to a four-year, $62 million deal was a necessary move for the San Francisco Giants, but it was one that has seemingly limited the team's ability to improve the roster elsewhere.
"I don't think there's anything more to ask of ownership," general manager Bobby Evans said, per John Shea of the San Francisco Chronicle. "It's more what I can do with what we have."
That's understandable for a team with one of the game's highest payrolls, but if the Giants are going to put an end to Los Angeles' run of four consecutive National League West crowns, they're going to have to plug holes in left field and at third base.
What follows is a look at five players, both free agents and trade acquisitions, that the Giants could reasonably target to fill those holes—assuming that ownership is willing to stretch the budget just a bit more than it already has.

We took a shot at putting together a hypothetical Todd Frazier-to-the-Giants trade earlier this week, and while not everyone agreed on the pieces going back to Chicago, few challenged the idea that the slugger was a superior choice to Eduardo Nunez or Conor Gillaspie for San Francisco at the hot corner.
Not only would he be an upgrade over either of the team's incumbent options, but Frazier's arrival would push Nunez into a utility role, something he's far better suited for than an everyday third baseman.
His right-handed power plays anywhere, and while the normally sure-handed defender seemed to take a step back in the field last season, it's not as if he played the position with his eyes closed. Contrary to popular opinion, Frazier is still capable of playing a solid third base.
Adding Frazier's salary to the payroll wouldn't push the Giants over the luxury-tax threshold—they're already there, per Cot's Contracts projections. In his final arbitration-eligible season, he doesn't represent a long-term burden for the club financially.
But he can help the Giants, who are built to win now, do just that.

A solid defender who has some pop in his bat, speed in his legs and the ability to reach base consistently, Brett Gardner has long seemed like a perfect fit to fill San Francisco's void in left field.
Sure, Jarrett Parker and Mac Williamson could comprise a solid platoon at the position, but the Giants can ill afford to dabble in potential when the rest of the NL West—with the notable exception of San Diego—is trying to contend for a division crown.
As Bleacher Report's Jacob Shafer wrote last month, there's a lot to like about Gardner in a Giants uniform:
His gap pop would play well in AT&T Park's Triples Alley, however. His defense and plate discipline would slot seamlessly into the Giants' current roster.
He's not a savior, but he won't come at a savior price in terms of prospects or payroll. The Giants will have to budge from their no-more-spending stance. They'll have to cough up some minor league capital. But they won't have to back up the Brink's truck.
Due $25 million through the 2018 season, Gardner's contract isn't outrageous or overly burdensome. While the Yankees aren't going to give him away, they're not going to expect an Adam Eaton-like return in a trade, either.
There's a deal to be made that makes sense for both sides.

Jae-Gyun Hwang isn't a household name by any means, but the 29-year-old Korean star is firmly planted on San Francisco's radar, according to MLB Network's Jon Morosi.
A career .285 hitter over a 10-year career in the Korean Baseball Organization, Hwang has shown the ability to hit for power, smacking 26 home runs in each of the past two seasons with enough speed to cause problems when he gets on base.
Of course, the KBO is a notoriously hitter-friendly league, so those numbers won't necessarily translate to MLB success. That said, Hwang could be a low-cost, high-upside addition for the Giants, someone who can handle himself at third base, shortstop and, perhaps, in a corner outfield spot as well.

It seems like Trevor Plouffe has been around for ages, but he'll only be entering his age-31 season in 2017. He's not a game-changing talent by any means, but the seven-year veteran is still a solid, albeit unspectacular ballplayer.
San Francisco finished 28th in baseball with 130 home runs in 2016. While Plouffe is no Todd Frazier in the power department, he's averaged 17 home runs a season since 2012 and won't cost nearly as much to obtain.
On a relatively modest one-year deal, Plouffe could be a shrewd addition for the Giants, whether he's the right-handed part of a platoon at third base (where he's an adequate defender) or simply as an experienced, veteran bat to add depth to the bench.

Luis Valbuena is a bit more versatile than Trevor Plouffe, as he's capable of playing second base in addition to the hot corner, but he's essentially the left-handed version of his free-agent counterpart.
The 31-year-old was in the midst of a solid year for Houston, hitting .260 with 13 home runs and a .816 OPS before his season was cut short in late July by a hamstring injury that ultimately required surgery to repair.
Like Plouffe, Valbuena isn't going to command a hefty salary on a one-year deal and would be a fine addition as a part-time player for the Giants as part of a platoon at third base and insurance for second baseman Joe Panik, who has yet to eclipse the 130 games played mark in any given season.
      
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs.

The Arizona Diamondbacks announced Tuesday the organization filed a lawsuit against the Maricopa County Stadium District over money for capital repairs of Chase Field. 
Steve Gilbert of MLB.com passed along a statement from D-backs managing general partner Ken Kendrick, who said the decision to bring the suit came after the sides couldn't reach an agreement:
It is extremely unfortunate that we have been forced to take action today following several years of attempts to resolve this matter out of court. We have made a promise to our fans, who have been partners with us on the building of this stadium and our franchise, to provide the best experience in all of baseball in a safe and welcoming environment. The inability of the Maricopa County Stadium District to fulfill its commitments has left us with no other option.
The Maricopa County Stadium District conducted an assessment of Chase Field, which opened in 1998, and it determined $185 million in upgrades were needed, according to the MLB.com report. The sides have remained at odds about how to pay the costs.
The report noted the Diamondbacks believe the Stadium District is responsible for $135 million of those fees. The team has offered to pay for the improvements in exchange for more stadium flexibility, including booking the park when it's not being used for baseball, but the district declined that offer.
Meanwhile, the Associated Press provided a response from Maricopa County officials, who were prepared to sell Chase Field to private investors last summer before the deal reached a roadblock with the team:
It is disappointing the Diamondbacks are suing their fans who helped build Chase Field. The team simply wants out of the contract that makes them stay and play through the 2028 season. Saying the facility is in disrepair is outrageous. The Maricopa County Stadium District has spent millions during the off-season on concrete and steel work that keeps the stadium safe and looking great for each baseball season.
Kendrick agreed the stadium isn't a danger to fans heading into the 2017 season, per MLB.com.
"Our fans can rest assured that today's filing will have absolutely no impact on the day-to-day operations of the D-backs and the upcoming season and that for 2017, Chase Field is completely safe," he said.
In addition, MLB.com noted D-backs attorney Leo R. Beus stated the organization isn't seeking any money from the county or the taxpayers as part of the lawsuit. Instead it's asking the court to remove a "contract restriction" that prevents it from exploring other stadium options.
The Diamondbacks averaged 25,138 fans across their 81 home games in 2016, a number that ranked 21st of the league's 30 teams, according to ESPN.com. Chase Field's 1998 debut date leaves it in the middle of the pack in terms of age, checking in as the 14th-oldest MLB facility.
Arizona is slated to open its 2017 home schedule with a game against the San Francisco Giants on Sunday, April 2.

Major League Baseball already has a $300 million contract. Its first $400 million contract could come soon.
Call it a hunch based on where Manny Machado and Bryce Harper are in their careers.
The Baltimore Orioles' third baseman and the Washington Nationals' right fielder have much in common. Both were elite prospects before they hit the ground running in the majors in 2012. Both have been among the best at their respective positions since then. Both are just 24 years old. And both are slated to hit free agency after the 2018 season.
Thus, the occasional buzz about one of them being baseball's first $400 million man. Bob Nightengale of USA Today was the latest to float that figure over Harper's head. Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports (h/t ESPN.com's Kyle Brasseur) hung the figure over Machado's head last summer.
The ideal scenario is for both of them to get $400 million, as Nathaniel Grow of FanGraphs highlighted in 2015 how players weren't getting their fair share of baseball's revenue pie. Two $400 million contracts would go a longer way toward fixing that than just one.
But we must be practical. It's likely that only one of them will break the $400 million barrier. Assuming that's a matter of who's more deserving, we must pit Machado and Harper against each other in relevant categories.
    
Upside

Upside, eh? Well, only one of the players in this discussion has authored one of baseball's all-time greatest seasons.
Remember Harper's 2015 season? Yup, that's the one.
He led MLB in on-base percentage (.460) and slugging percentage (.649) and co-led the National League with 42 home runs. By OPS+, his offensive performance was the best since Barry Bonds in 2004. Baseball-Reference.com put Harper's wins above replacement at 9.9—a mark that's been reached only 61 other times among hitters.
Harper's defining characteristics in 2015 were his advanced approach and his booming power. The former has roots in the 13.5 walk percentage he posted in the minors. The latter had scouts drooling even before he was the No. 1 pick in the 2010 draft. Baseball America rated Harper's power as a true 80-grade tool.
As such, Harper's 2015 was less of a random flare-up and more of an inevitability. That was the player he was supposed to be—and, thus, could be again.
For his part, Machado is no slouch. He was worth 6.7 WAR in 2013 and found that same neighborhood in 2015 (7.1) and 2016 (6.7). The first time he did it, he was an otherworldly defender with a decent bat. He's enjoyed the best of both worlds since 2015, averaging a 130 OPS+ and 36 homers while playing defense that, while short of otherworldly, is still great. Either way, we're talking superstar-level stuff.
However, whether Machado can get any better is a good question.
Baseball America figured he would be only a 20-homers-per-year guy, so he's already way ahead of those early power projections. His power did tick upward after first exploding in 2015, but not to a degree that suggests he has a bunch more in the tank.
The jury's also out on whether Machado can amplify his hitting talent with increased patience. He took a big step forward in that department in 2015, lowering his swing and chase rates and drawing more walks. But that didn't last, as his improvements regressed in 2016.
This is not to say Machado's game can't evolve. It's just to say he seems to be what he is: a superstar for sure, but one without Harper's upside.
Advantage: Harper
    
Consistency

Upside is well and good, but what would a team with a $400 million contract offer in hand rather have: a guy who can be great, or a guy who it can count on being great?
Given the size of the bet being made, probably the latter, right?
So let's confront the elephant that was stampeding through the room marked "Upside."
Harper owns the best individual season of these two, but Machado is having the better career. He's been worth 3.2 more WAR than Harper despite playing in 49 fewer games. He's also topped six WAR thrice to Harper's once.
There haven't been wild fluctuations in Machado's performance like there have been in Harper's. If we line up their yearly OPS+ numbers, for example, we see a squiggly line and a relatively straight one:
On the whole, Harper's career 137 OPS+ trumps Machado's 117 OPS+. But based on the early portion of his career, how consistently Harper's going to live up to his career mark is anyone's guess. There's nothing in Machado's track record, meanwhile, that suggests similar peaks and valleys are imminent.
On the other side of the ball, Machado's defense peaked in 2013, when he put up a 31.2 ultimate zone rating and 35 defensive runs saved. But on either side of that are well-above-average performances. In total, he's been an elite defender through the lens of either UZR or DRS.
Harper's defensive performance is tougher to pin down due to how much he's moved around the outfield. He's mostly been good, compiling a 17.4 ultimate zone rating and 24 defensive runs saved. But rather than maintaining a baseline of above-average defense like Machado has, Harper has had years when his defense has been rated negatively by UZR or DRS.
Bottom line: Based on their performances to this point, only one of these guys is a safe bet to be a great player in any given year.
Advantage: Machado
    
Durability

And now for the fundamental reason why Harper's performances have fluctuated so wildly: The dude can't stay healthy.
We got an inkling of that in 2013 and 2014, when Harper was limited to 218 games due to major injuries to his knee and thumb that were accompanied by a handful of nagging injuries.
The bright side at the time seemed to be that he could avoid further trouble by looking after himself on the field, which he vowed to do ahead of 2015.
"It's more impact stuff. Hitting the wall, blowing the bursa. Sliding into third base on a triple and tearing my tendon," he said of his injury troubles that spring, via Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post. "So, this year, I'll just play a little smarter."
This paid off, as Harper played in 153 games in 2015. Nonetheless, it turned out his problems weren't solved for good. Although he played in 147 games in 2016, Tom Verducci of Sports Illustrated reported Harper was plagued by a shoulder issue that hindered him at the plate and in the field.
The black marks on Machado's record are the knee issues he ran into in 2013 and 2014. A ligament tear in his left knee ended his '13 season early. A year later, an injury to the same ligament in his right knee ended his '14 season early. But then he came back and played in all 162 games in 2015 and in 157 games in 2016. In all, he's played in more games over the last two seasons than just one player.
This is a comparison between one guy who's not past his injury troubles and one who is. Neither is Cal Ripken Jr., but one is more Cal Ripken-y than the other.
Looking forward, Machado is no more likely to be beat up by third base than Harper is by right field. The list of guys who played regularly at third base after 30 and the list of guys who played regularly in right field after 30 look awfully similar.
Advantage: Machado
    
Survey Says: Machado
There are other factors that could be weighed here. Marketability, for example. Blockbuster movies need lead actors who look good on posters. All other things being equal, baseball teams prefer to operate similarly.
But that may be a moot point in this case because all other things aren't equal.
Harper has the talent to be worth a $400 million contract. And while he's only put that talent on full display just once so far, that could obviously change in 2017 or 2018. He has the ability and the time to shift the nature of the conversation.
But if things stay the way they are now, Machado is the safer bet for a $400 million contract. Even if he never gets any better, he's good enough now and should remain good enough from both a talent and durability perspective.
Again, here's hoping both land $400 million contracts. But if only one of them can, right now it's clear who that one should be.
    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked.


The Los Angeles Dodgers have spent the offseason getting the band back together, re-signing closer Kenley Jansen, left-hander Rich Hill and third baseman Justin Turner.
There's nothing wrong with that. The trio were key contributors in 2016 and among the top free agents at their respective positions.
If the Dodgers are going to secure a fifth straight National League West crown, however, and win their first title since 1988, they need to keep shopping. Specifically, Los Angeles has holes to plug in the bullpen, the outfield and, most glaringly, at second base.
Let's examine a few realistic trade and free-agent targets, with the operative word being "realistic." Not all of these deals will happen, but they're tied to credible rumors—or at least informed speculation—and a sense of the Dodgers' needs and resources.
We'll begin with a right-handed reliever formerly employed by the Dodgers' hated rivals and end with a power-hitting second baseman who simply makes too much sense to ignore.

The ninth inning is secure with Jansen back in the fold, but the Dodgers could use another right-handed setup man to supplement in-house options Pedro Baez and Chris Hatcher. 
Sergio Romo isn't a sure bet. He missed significant time with elbow issues last season and saw his average fastball velocity tumble to a career-worst 85.9 mph.
The 33-year-old finished the year healthy, however, and posted a 2.64 ERA with 33 strikeouts in 30.2 innings. When he's right, his slider is still among the nastiest pitches in baseball.
Romo is a Southern California native, and while the Dodgers shouldn't expect a hometown discount, they should be able to lock him up on a reasonable short-term deal.

In keeping with the theme of bringing back their guys, the Dodgers could bolster the bullpen by re-upping Joe Blanton.
The 36-year-old righty was a stalwart arm for Los Angeles last season, logging 80 innings and posting a 2.48 ERA.
ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick reported on Dec. 27 that Blanton is drawing increased interest with most of the elite relievers off the board and that a reunion with L.A. is possible.
Considering Blanton's age, anything more than a two-year deal would be dicey. He's a known commodity, however; if he can repeat his 2016 stat line, he would be a valuable one, too.

From a quantity standpoint, the Dodgers have plenty of outfielders. 
Joc Pederson, Andrew Toles, Yasiel Puig, Andre Ethier, Trayce Thompson and Scott Van Slyke currently populate the depth chart. It's possible, maybe even probable, the Dodgers will enter the spring with that group and sort it out from there.
Read those names again, though. Is there a slam-dunk contributor in the bunch? 
Pederson brings power, speed and on-base capabilities and, at age 24, could be poised for a legitimate star-level breakout. He hit just .246 last season, however, and is a .224 career hitter.
Puig remains an enigma and may be traded at some point. Toles was one of the cooler stories in baseball last season, as he went from toiling at a Georgia grocery store to debuting with the Dodgers. He's probably a fourth outfielder on most contending teams, however. The same goes for Ethier, Thompson and Van Slyke.
In early December, the Los Angeles Times' Andy McCullough reported the Dodgers had "shown interest" in Kansas City Royals center fielder Lorenzo Cain.
Cain battled injuries last season and appeared in only 103 games. He was a beast in 2015, however, playing top-shelf defense, slashing .307/.361/.477 and finishing third in AL MVP voting. That Cain, or something close to it, would push the Dodgers' offense to the next level and solve the outfield puzzle.
There hasn't been much recent chatter, so it's possible the Royals' asking price was too high or they simply aren't selling. Cain is signed for $11 million in 2017 and will be a free agent after that, so he's not worth gutting the farm.
As a reclamation gamble with massive upside, however, he defines intriguing.

If the Dodgers do nothing else this winter, they need to add a second baseman. The best option on the current roster is Kike Hernandez, whose .190/.283/.324 2016 slash line says utility player in flashing neon lights.
The free-agent cupboard is mostly bare, but there are a couple of trade candidates the Dodgers should zero in on.
We'll start with the Tampa Bay Rays' Logan Forsythe, who has been on Los Angeles' radar since at least the 2016 trade deadline, per Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal. 
The 29-year-old hit .264 with 20 home runs last season for Tampa Bay and is owed $8.5 million in 2017 with an $8.5 million option and $1 million buyout for 2018.
He won't come cheap in trade, but it's possible the Dodgers could swing a deal without touching any of their top prospects, including right-hander Jose De Leon.
"Forsythe isn't exactly a household name, but he has been a very good and underrated performer for the Rays the past two seasons," CBS Sports' Matt Snyder noted in November. "The Dodgers could do much worse in filling their hole at second base (or third) this offseason."
He's right. But they could do better...

We arrive, inevitably, at Brian Dozier.
Dozier and the Dodgers have been linked for weeks, though FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported Dec. 21 that talks between Los Angeles and the Minnesota Twins were "at a standstill."
The two sides, Heyman noted, have agreed on De Leon as part of the deal "but are said by sources to be having difficulty agreeing on the second and possibly third pieces."
Dodgers fans are shifting nervously at the thought of another top MiLB name such as outfielder/first baseman Cody Bellinger being shipped to Minnesota.
President of baseball operations Andrew Friedman has a tendency to covet his young chips, however, so it could take some give on the part of the Twins to get a deal done.
Here's what no one can deny: Dozier would make the Dodgers much, much better. 
The 29-year-old clubbed 42 home runs last season with 99 RBI and finished 13th in baseball with 5.9 WAR. He's signed for $6 million next season and $9 million in 2018, so he wouldn't strain the budget. His right-handed bat would provide a boost to a lefty-heavy L.A. lineup that hit a paltry .213 against left-handed pitching in 2016.
Even if his power numbers nudged down at pitcher-friendly Dodger Stadium, he'd join shortstop and NL Rookie of the Year Corey Seager to form one of the most potent keystone combos in the game.
It's not up to him, but Dozier sounded receptive to the idea of packing his bags for Southern California.
"Obviously the Dodgers have come up, and it's one of those things that is exciting," he said in early December, per ESPN.com's Doug Padilla. "If you don't embrace the opportunity to let all of this soak in and see how teams value you, then you lose out. I think it's pretty cool."
If Dozier ends up clubbing balls into the stratosphere at Chavez Ravine, the Dodger faithful will undoubtedly agree.
       
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. All contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com.

The deadline for voting members of the Baseball Writers Association of America to submit their 2017 Hall of Fame ballots was Dec. 31. In the interest of keeping us all in suspense, however, the results won't be announced until Jan. 18.
In the meantime, here's a final look at this year's candidates, their HOF cases and the chances they'll punch a ticket to Cooperstown.
We have some data to go on. First, there are past vote totals for players who have been on the ballot before. Second, and even more revealingly, there's the count of public ballots compiled by the indefatigable Ryan Thibodaux.
This year's class is a fascinating one, populated by a number of borderline cases sure to spark debate, two titans of the steroid era who are gaining momentum and one worthy but long-spurned leadoff man on the verge of breaking through.
Note that we're only discussing players who have a statistical shot at reaching the 75 percent threshold needed for induction based on the public count. Here's a list of some notable names who've been eliminated for this year, though all appear likely to get the 5 percent necessary to stay on the ballot with the exception of Lee Smith, who is in his final year of eligibility:
Feel free to cast your votes in the comments and proceed when ready.

His Case
An NL Rookie of the Year winner in 1991 and NL MVP and Gold Glove winner in 1994, Jeff Bagwell finished his career with 449 home runs, a .948 OPS and 79.6 WAR, the second-highest total among position players on this year's ballot behind only Barry Bonds.
Sports Illustrated's Jay Jaffe called him "one of the best all-around first basemen since World War II." That's a fair assessment.
 
His Chances
Excellent. Bagwell is in his seventh year of eligibility and came tantalizingly close last year, as he garnered 71.6 percent. As of this writing, he's at 92.1 percent on the public-ballot tally.
Bagwell never admitted to and was not suspended for steroid use, though he did acknowledge using at-the-time legal enhancers, including androstenedione. That's apparently been enough to keep him out until now, but his wait appears to be over.

His Case
The all-time single-season and career home run king, Bonds won seven MVP awards and eight Gold Gloves.
We could keep going, but what's the need? On stats and accolades alone, HOF cases don't get more open-and-shut than this.
 
His Chances
Improving dramatically. In his fourth year of eligibility, Bonds got 44.3 percent of the vote. Currently, he's tracking at 70.1 percent in the public count in his fifth year.
Even if that number dips in the final analysis, it'll represent a dramatic uptick. What gives?
One factor could be the induction of former MLB commissioner Bud Selig, who oversaw the steroid era and was enshrined in early December by the 16-person Today's Game Era committee.
"As I continued to think about this and go back and forth, the thing that sealed my vote was when Bud Selig was voted in," BBWAA voting member Tom D'Angelo said, per Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan.
Bonds, of course, was never suspended for performance-enhancing drug use, and he's never confessed or apologized. He is, nonetheless, the PED poster boy.
He's also the greatest hitter of his generation. While he may have to wait a bit longer, he's on a collision course with Cooperstown.

His Case
As with Bonds, we'll keep this short and sweet. Roger Clemens won seven Cy Young awards and an American League MVP. He ranks third on the all-time strikeout list (4,672) and ninth all-time with 354 wins.
By the numbers, he's one of the greatest to ever grab a rosin bag.
 
His Chances
Improving dramatically. Clemens is tracking at 69.5 percent on the public-vote counter after getting 45.2 percent of the total vote last year.
The Selig effect and a general softening on steroids are clearly at play here, as more and more voters wake up to the capricious, futile hypocrisy of playing PED detective.
Like Bonds, Clemens was (cough) probably a steroid user. Also like Bonds, he's on track for the Hall in the near future. It'll be a PR headache for MLB, but it's happening.

His Case
Vladimir Guerrero made nine All-Star teams. He hit 449 career home runs and posted a .931 OPS. He finished in the top 10 in MVP voting six times and won the award in 2004.
His stats don't scream first-ballot lock, but he was a consistently great hitter over the course of his 16-year career.
 
His Chances
Close call. Guerrero is in his first year on the ballot and tracking at 76.2 percent on the public-vote count. If that holds, he'll squeak in.
What could hurt Guerrero is the first-ballot mystique. Some voters seem to hold it as a sacred honor to be bestowed upon only the greatest of the great. If it takes Bagwell seven years, why should Guerrero sail through on his first try?
Even if he misses the cut this time, though, Vlad looks like a shoo-in for eventual enshrinement.

His Case
The Hall isn't a friendly place for closers—just ask Lee Smith.
Trevor Hoffman, though, is a closer among closers. The right-hander ranks second all-time with 601 career saves and joins Mariano Rivera as the only members of the 600-save club.
He made seven All-Star teams and twice finished second in Cy Young balloting. This is one reliever with a shutdown HOF resume.
 
His Chances
Close call. Hoffman got 67.3 percent last year, in his first year of eligibility, and he's at 72.6 percent on the public vote count.
He's hovering, in other words, and will get in eventually. Perhaps voters want to wait until 2019, when Rivera is up for consideration, so they can induct two great closers for the price of one.

His Case
A lifetime .312 hitter, Martinez was a seven-time All-Star and two-time batting champion who finished with 2,247 hits and a .933 career OPS.
If you ignore what position he played, or didn't play, that's a HOF-worthy body of work.
 
His Chances
Close call. Martinez's candidacy hinges on voters' willingness to let in a designated hitter. It's rare, but it has happened, as Sports Illustrated's Jaffe outlined:
Not until 2014 was the first player ever to spend a majority of his career as a DH inducted into the Hall of Fame: Frank Thomas, who made 57% of his plate appearances in that capacity. Thomas's election came a full decade after Paul Molitor became the Hall's first player to spend the plurality of his career (44%) as a DH after bouncing all around the infield. By comparison, Martinez took 72% of his plate appearances as a DH.
Martinez got 43.4 percent of the vote last year. He's now in his eighth year and sitting at 68.9 percent in the public-vote count.
He's on an upward trajectory and could get a bump in two years when he enters his final year of eligibility. For now, it looks like a near-miss for arguably the greatest DH of all time.

His Case
Mike Mussina won 270 games, made five All-Star teams and won seven Gold Gloves in his 18-year career.
He also ranks 17th all-time in career WAR among pitchers with a mark of 82.2, by FanGraphs' measure.
"Simply put," CBS Sports' Dayn Perry opined, "Mussina, when it comes to overall career value, is well clear of any sensible cutoff for Hall worthiness."
 
His Chances
Probably not this year. Mussina made the biggest voting jump of any player on the ballot last year, bumping up 18.4 percent. But he still only got 43 percent total and is at 61.6 percent on the public count.
This is only his fourth year of eligibility, so if the numbers keep tracking upward, his time may come.

His Case
Tim Raines ranks fifth all-time with 808 stolen bases. He's got 2,605 hits.
He owns a .294/.385/.425 career slash line, which compares favorably to Rickey Henderson's career line of .279/.401/.419.
Henderson was the greatest leadoff hitter of all time, and his career overlapped and overshadowed Raines. But Rock's HOF credentials are solid.
 
His Chances
Excellent. After getting 69.8 percent last year, Raines is at 91.5 percent on the public count in his 10th and final go-round.
After years of overlooking him and possibly punishing him for his sometimes prickly attitude and for persistent allegations of cocaine use, BBWAA voters seem ready to let Raines through at the eleventh hour. It's about damn time.

His Case
Ivan Rodriguez ranks among the top 10 catchers all-time in home runs, batting average and RBI and made 14 All-Star teams.
Add an incredible 13 Gold Gloves and an MVP award, and you've got one of the best backstops of all time by the numbers.
 
His Chances
Excellent, with a caveat.
Whenever we say "by the numbers," you can assume PED talk will follow. Rodriguez never outright admitted to steroid use, but he came close. When asked if his name would appear on a list of players who tested positive for steroids in 2003, Rodriguez replied, "Only God knows," according to the Associated Press (via ESPN.com).
If voters made Mike Piazza wait four years to get in based on little more than innuendo, would they really put Rodriguez through on the first ballot?
They might. Pudge is at 84.1 percent on the public count, which gives him a 9 percent cushion as the final votes are tallied.

His Case
Curt Schilling made six All-Star appearances and had four top-four Cy Young Award finishes while winning 216 regular-season games.
He forged his legend in the playoffs, though, where he went 11-2 with a 2.23 ERA in 19 career starts, won three rings and was named co-MVP of the 2001 Fall Classic.
 
His Chances
Not great. Schilling got 52.3 percent of the vote last year. This year—his fifth on the ballot—he's at 53.7 percent in the public tally.
Schilling's HOF case isn't airtight. You can argue he shouldn't get in before Mussina.
The right-hander, however, has suggested there's a political motive.
"If I had said, 'Lynch Trump,' I'd be getting in with about 90 percent of the vote," Schilling, who leans to the right and has stirred controversy on social media, told TMZ Sports.
Whether or not his politics have played a role, Schilling almost certainly won't get in this year and is no sure bet down the road.
   
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

Outfielder Rajai Davis signed with the Oakland Athletics on Tuesday.
Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports first reported Davis' one-year deal worth $6 million from the A's. Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle confirmed the deal, adding Davis can receive another $450,000 in performance bonuses.
Davis, 36, had a solid season in 2016 for the Cleveland Indians, hitting .249 with 12 home runs, 48 RBI, 74 runs scored and an AL-high 43 stolen bases. While he is probably best served platooning in the outfield—he often sat against left-handed pitching with the Indians—he can still offer solid production.
He has a .780 career OPS against left-handed pitching, but he actually hit better against righties (.708) than southpaws (.670) in 2016, per Baseball-Reference.com. 
While Davis' offensive numbers were nothing special, he provided one of 2016's most dramatic moments with a game-tying two-run homer off Chicago Cubs closer Aroldis Chapman in the eighth inning of Game 7 of the World Series. 
Davis is also still a terror on the basepaths, giving him a lot of value for an Oakland team that only stole 50 bases in 2016, the fifth-lowest mark in the majors. His defense in center has been all over the place throughout his career, with FanGraphs noting he cost Cleveland five runs at the position last season. 
Going to Oakland's spacious coliseum likely won't improve Davis' defensive metrics, but his speed and ability to create scoring opportunities on the bases make him a worthy investment for the A's. 
There may be questions about whether Davis can sustain his level of play, as he's well into his 30s. He was a pleasant surprise for Cleveland in 2016, and his play was a big reason for the club's Cinderella postseason run.
If Davis can replicate his success from last season, the A's will have landed one of the better low-key free-agent signings.
      
You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.

Colorado Rockies center fielder Charlie Blackmon has seen his name crop up in trade talks this winter, and they have continued into the new year. 
Continue for updates.
According to MLB Network's Jon Morosi, the Toronto Blue Jays have spoken with the Rockies regarding a deal involving Blackmon, but negotiations "do not appear to have much momentum right now."
Blackmon has been a serviceable outfielder on a Rockies team that hasn't made the playoffs since 2009, one season before the 30-year-old made his major league debut. 
He's coming off a career year in 2016 in which he batted .324 with 29 home runs and 82 RBI. All of those marks are career bests, and he won his first Silver Slugger Award.
But the Rockies could be faced with a crowded outfield after acquiring Ian Desmond during the winter meetings. It all depends on where they will play him, though. 
Coming up as a shortstop, Desmond spent his first seven professional seasons with the Washington Nationals at that position before moving to center field with the Texas Rangers for one year in 2016. 
If the Rockies were to use Desmond as a center fielder, Blackmon all of a sudden becomes expendable with Gerardo Parra in left field and Carlos Gonzalez in right. 
According to MLB.com's Gregor Chisholm on Dec. 26, Colorado had already offered Blackmon to the Blue Jays in return for starting pitcher Marcus Stroman, but Toronto did not want to part with its young arm. 
Chisholm also added that the Blue Jays "would love to acquire Blackmon," but "it just doesn't seem possible."
The Rockies' depth chart, which was last updated on Dec. 31, lists Desmond as the team's starting first baseman with Blackmon securely starting in center. 
If the plan is to keep Desmond in the infield, then there shouldn't be many reasons to part with Blackmon given his production in 2016 unless the return is far too great to turn down. 

The Cincinnati Reds reached an agreement Tuesday with veteran relief pitcher Drew Storen on a contract for 2017. 
The Reds officially announced Storen signed a one-year deal on Twitter. Jon Heyman of Today's Knuckleball reported the deal is worth $3 million with a $1.5 million performance bonus and a $500,000 bonus if he's traded.
Storen struggled with the Toronto Blue Jays, posting a 6.21 ERA and 1.59 WHIP across 38 appearances, after getting shipped north of the border by the Washington Nationals last offseason. A second trade in seven months, this time to the Seattle Mariners in July, helped him get back on track.
The 29-year-old reliever finished with a 3.44 ERA and 0.87 WHIP while striking out 16 batters in 18.1 innings down the stretch for the Mariners. Those numbers were more in line with what the former Nats closer accomplished during his time in the nation's capital.
Bob Dutton of the News Tribune passed along comments from Storen about working his way back into high-leverage situations in Seattle after sliding down the bullpen pecking order in Toronto:
I enjoy those situations because you're just rolling off adrenaline. I've been in those situations before—usually because of my fault. It's a good spot. That's a really important part of the game, and it allows me to be the bridge to the flames we have coming out at the back. Those guys are just coming out and attacking people.
In addition, showing he could be trusted in the late innings helped bolster his stock heading into the offseason after it took a downward turn for a while.
Storen has become more comfortable with his changeup over the past few years, but he still relies predominately on his sinker and slider. When he's commanding those two pitches effectively, he can provide a lot of valuable innings out of the pen.
In the end, the Reds decided he was worth the investment as they worked to upgrade the bullpen during the offseason. It's a signing that probably won't garner much attention given the crowded reliever market, but it's still a solid addition.
The Reds are in the process of rebuilding, which is why they aren't looking to make many long-term investments. Bullpen depth is essential for the team in 2017 after its starting pitchers threw 859 innings last season, fewest in MLB. 
It's also a wise move for Storen to start next season with a team like the Reds. He will likely be used in high-leverage situations early in the year, and if he is successful, there's always a market from contending teams for relievers at the trade deadline. 
His exact role in the pen probably won't be known until close to Opening Day. He could work himself into the seventh or eighth inning with a strong spring training. And it's a bonus that he has closing experience should the need arise during the year.
The deal does come with some risk when you factor in his struggles with the Blue Jays. But the upside outweighs the downside when taking his whole track record into account and where the Reds are at starting next season.
 
                                                    

Tampa Bay Rays center fielder Kevin Kiermaier proves he has skills away from the diamond.
UNINTERRUPTED is a distributed media platform totally dedicated to athletes, fans and lovers of sport. UNINTERRUPTED is not journalism. Producing a wide range of unique, creative and captivating content, UNINTERRUPTED empowers athletes to let the world see what they see, develop their most creative ideas and tell the stories most important to them. As sports media and cultural influence continue to expand, UNINTERRUPTED is committed to the voice of athletes and the audience that wants to go deeper.

Fresh off a long-awaited World Series title and with a young core that rivals any in baseball, the Chicago Cubs entered the offseason with a fairly short to-do list.
Wade Davis and Koji Uehara have been added to the back of the bullpen, and veteran outfielder Jon Jay was signed to pair with Albert Almora Jr. in replacing Dexter Fowler in center field.
With those moves made, there appear to be two major areas the team may still look to address before the starting of spring training:
So who might the team be targeting to fill these areas of need?
Ahead is a look at five players who make sense as perhaps the finishing touch on what would be another successful offseason for the defending champions.

2016 Stats
 
Player Outlook
Boone Logan landed a three-year, $16.5 million deal from the Colorado Rockies last time he reached free agency, and the 32-year-old could be in line for a similar payday this winter given the way the market for quality left-handed bullpen arms has developed.
Aside from a rough first season in Colorado, Logan has been mostly terrific dating back to a breakout season with the New York Yankees in 2010.
He's made at least 60 appearances in four of the past five seasons—the outlier being the aforementioned 2014 season when he battled a bum elbow that eventually required surgery for a bone spur—and has averaged at least 11 strikeouts per nine innings each year.
Logan pitches off a fastball that averaged 93.9 mph and a terrific slider that opposing hitters managed just an .092 batting average and 48 strikeouts against, per Brooks Baseball.
He's also plenty familiar with Chicago, having come up through the White Sox organization as a 20th-round pick in the 2002 draft.
The three-year, $19 million deal the Rockies gave Mike Dunn seems like a reasonable comparison for Logan, though the more time he spends on the market the more open he may be to a two-year deal.

2016 Stats
 
Player Outlook
Jerry Blevins fits exactly what the Cubs are looking for to round out the bullpen as a quality left-hander with late-inning experience.
The fact that they would be signing him away from the New York Mets is just icing on the cake.
Blevins suffered a pair of arm fractures in 2015, limiting him to just seven appearances, but that didn't stop the Mets from bringing him back on a one-year, $4 million deal last winter.
That proved to be one of the team's better moves during what was a busy offseason, as Blevins joined Addison Reed and Jeurys Familia at the back of one of the better bullpens in the National League.
The 33-year-old topped 60 appearances in three straight seasons before his injury-plagued 2015 campaign and then set a new career-high with 73 games in 2016, so durability is not a real concern despite his medical history.
Blevins scrapped his cut-fastball after the 2014 season and has become essentially a fastball-curveball pitcher during his time with the Mets while mixing in the occasional changeup.
That's helped boost his ground-ball rate, which was a healthy 45.8 percent this past season and also contributed to a career-best 11.1 K/9.
He falls in the same category as Logan, where the three-year, $19 million deal signed by Mike Dunn looks like the best comparison on this year's market.

2016 Stats
 
Player Outlook
There's a fairly significant drop-off in the remaining lefty reliever options behind Logan and Blevins, assuming Travis Wood finds someone willing to give him a chance to win a rotation spot.
Veterans J.P. Howell and Javier Lopez are the best of the rest, though neither was particularly effective in 2016, and they might not profile as much of an upgrade over Brian Duensing at this point.
With that in mind, if the Cubs aren't interested in paying up to sign Logan or Blevins, they could turn their attention to the trade market.
One player they've already been linked to is Detroit Tigers setup man Justin Wilson, who generated significant interest during the winter meetings from a range of teams, including the Cubs, per Jon Morosi of MLB Network.
Wilson, 29, joined the Tigers last offseason in a deal that sent Chad Green and Luis Cessa—two young pitchers set to compete for a rotation spot this spring—to the New York Yankees.
His calling card is a heavy, mid-90s sinker that helped induce a 54.9 percent ground-ball rate, and he pairs it with a solid cut-fastball while mixing in the occasional curveball and changeup left over from his days as a starter in the minors.
Wilson has two years of team control remaining with a $2.7 million projected arbitration salary for the upcoming season, giving him enough value that it will take at least one solid prospect to pry him loose.
A package built around infielder Jeimer Candelario, who is MLB-ready but solidly blocked in Chicago, could be enough to intrigue the Tigers.

2016 Stats
 
Player Outlook
The Cubs held a $12 million team option on Jason Hammel for the upcoming season but allowed the veteran starter to decide whether he would return or test the free-agent market this winter, per Jesse Rogers of ESPN.com. 
Hammel opted to test the market, and that looked like the right move at the time. He profiled as a top-five starting pitching option and a safe bet for a multi-year deal.
Unfortunately for him, that's not how his market has developed, as John Perrotto of FanRag Sports explained:
One of the biggest surprises of free agency is that right-hander Jason Hammel has received limited interest despite going a combined 25-17 with a 3.79 ERA in 61 starts with the Chicago Cubs over the last two seasons.
However, many teams are unwilling to commit to Hammel beyond one year after the Cubs left him off the postseason roster because of elbow tightness. Scouts also believe the quality of the 34-year-old’s stuff is declining.
Hammel changed agencies earlier this month in hopes of drumming up more suitors, switching to ACES from Octagon.
“He’s going to have to lower his sights,” a scout from an American League team said. “There are just too many questions marks surrounding him. I’m not saying he couldn’t help someone, it’s just that he’s not a sure thing and it’s tough to commit a lot of money to that kind of player.”
If he is in fact limited to one-year offers, the Cubs could throw out the same one-year, $12 million deal that he turned down at the start of the offseason as a do-over of sorts.
That would allow Mike Montgomery to move back to the bullpen for the time being, simultaneously addressing the need for a lefty reliever while adding a known commodity to the back of the rotation.

2015 Stats (injured in 2016, made just one start)
 
Player Outlook
There's no bigger upside play on the free-agent market this winter than right-hander Tyson Ross.
It should come as no surprise then that as many as 20 teams have shown interest in signing him, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
The Cubs are front-and-center among that group, and this is not the first time they have shown interest in acquiring Ross.
"The Padres were close to trading Ross to the Cubs for Starlin Castro," one source told Bruce Levine of CBS Chicago. "San Diego execs were mixed on asking for Castro or Javier Baez. The deal went down to the wire in late July of 2015 but never got to the point of exchanging medicals."
A lot has changed since then.
Ross left his Opening Day start last season with what was originally deemed shoulder inflammation, but the issue persisted and it was eventually revealed that he needed thoracic outlet surgery.
With a $9.6 million projected arbitration salary the Padres opted to cut ties, and Ross is reportedly seeking a one-year deal in the $9-11 million range, all guaranteed, per Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News.
Ideally, he would sign to something more like a one-year, $5 million deal that includes plenty of incentives for innings pitched and perhaps a mutual option for a second year.
However, even if it means rolling the dice on a $10 million guarantee, taking a chance on Ross is a move that could pay huge dividends for the Cubs in their pursuit of another title.
 
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Projected salaries courtesy of MLBTradeRumors. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted. 

Unlike the rest of the baseball universe, MLB's rumor mill doesn't get time off to partake in New Year's Eve festivities. There are no parties or concerts; no hanging out in New York's Time Square to watch former pop sensations suffer embarrassing "technical difficulties."
While the first week of a New Year is too early to proclaim that MLB teams still looking to improve their rosters are facing difficulties of their own in that regard, the clock has officially begun to tick. With just over six weeks before pitchers and catchers report to spring training, time is not on their side.
As luck would have it, there are still a slew of notable names who remain available on the free-agent market and some clubs that remain open for business on the trade front. The opportunity to improve remains alive. What follows is a look at four trades that would help teams do just that.
Keep in mind these proposed deals are only ideas and speculation. Unless otherwise noted, there's no indication any of them have been discussed.

New York Gets: LHP Angel Perdomo and RHP T.J. Zeuch
Toronto Gets: OF Brett Gardner
                            
Rumor/Speculation
Richard Griffin of the Toronto Star reports that the Blue Jays have explored a potential trade for New York Yankees outfielder Brett Gardner.
                                                                
Why It Makes Sense For the Blue Jays
Gardner fills multiple needs for Toronto. He's a significant upgrade, both offensively and defensively, in left field. His left-handed bat brings some much-needed balance to a lineup that is almost exclusively right-handed, and he gives the Blue Jays a legitimate leadoff hitter.
Due $25 million through 2018, adding Gardner's salary wouldn't necessarily preclude Toronto from re-signing Jose Bautista to play right field. As for the prospects the Blue Jays are giving up, neither one factored into the team's 2017 plans.
                   
Why It Makes Sense For the Yankees
The Yankees get younger and cheaper by unloading Gardner, adding two more intriguing young arms to their ever-growing prospect stable.
Neither Angel Perdomo nor T.J. Zeuch is ready to contribute in 2017, but the pair could be groomed into solid mid-rotation arms. Of the two, Zeuch has better odds of sticking in the rotation, while Perdomo's lack of control could find him working out of the bullpen, where his stuff might play up in shorter stints.
A combination of Aaron Hicks and Mason Williams can hold things down in left field for the Yankees until prospect Clint Frazier is ready to take over on a full-time basis, a move that could happen around the All-Star break.

Chicago Gets: OFs Hunter Cole and Steven Duggar
San Francisco Gets: 3B Todd Frazier
                     
Rumor/Speculation
Chicago has received "due diligence" calls on Todd Frazier, sources tell the Boston Globe's Nick Cafardo.
                                        
Why It Makes Sense For the Giants
San Francisco is built to win now and, per Cot's Contracts projections, will exceed the luxury tax once again in 2017. Frazier's salary, which figures to be somewhere in the $12-to-13 million range in his final year of arbitration, shouldn't be a major reason to pass on a potential deal.
More of a prototypical third baseman than Eduardo Nunez, Frazier would also allow manager Bruce Bochy to utilize Nunez either as the right-handed part of a platoon with Joe Panik at second base or as a super-utility player, bouncing around the diamond as needed.
                                         
Why It Makes Sense for the White Sox
While Chicago has loaded up on prospects thanks to the trades of Adam Eaton and Chris Sale, the team's farm system is largely devoid of outfield talent that is remotely close to contributing in the big leagues. This deal brings two such players into the organization. 
Hunter Cole has the arm strength and requisite power to fill the team's gaping void in right field. While he's yet to play above Double-A, it's not inconceivable that he could break camp with the club or receive an early promotion to the big leagues.
Steven Duggar has the higher upside, with plus-plus speed and lots of raw power, but he's still figuring out how to tap into his many tools during games. Capable of playing all three outfield positions, he could become a factor in the majors after the All-Star break, should he take the next step in his development.

Detroit Gets: OF Aaron Altherr and C Andrew Knapp
Philadelphia Gets: OF J.D. Martinez
                            
Rumor/Speculation
Ryan Lawrence of PhillyVoice.com speculates that Philadelphia and Detroit could revisit a potential deal involving Tigers outfielder J.D. Martinez. MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported last month that the two sides had discussed a potential swap.
                                   
Why It Makes Sense For the Phillies
Adding J.D. Martinez to play right field would give manager Pete Mackanin the second experienced bat he wants while satisfying general manager Matt Klentak's desire to not serve as a long-term obstacle for any of the team's outfield prospects.
That said, Martinez is entering his age-29 season and is still young enough to be a part of Philadelphia's future. The team would essentially get half a season to see whether there's a mutual fit before deciding whether to flip him elsewhere at the non-waiver trade deadline or try and work out an extension.
His right-handed power seems like an ideal fit for Citizens Bank Park, and his presence would make it less likely that the Phillies might rush outfield prospects Dylan Cozens and Nick Williams, who need more development time, to the show.
Giving up a catching prospect like Andrew Knapp in a deal for a potential one-year rental isn't ideal, but the Phillies can turn to a veteran journeyman, like non-roster invitee Bryan Holaday, to serve as Cameron Rupp's backup until Jorge Alfaro is ready to take the reins as the team's starter.
                                                                                  
Why It Makes Sense For the Tigers
Knapp gives Detroit its possible catcher of the future and immediate competition for James McCann, who has been underwhelming since taking over the catching duties in 2015. A solid defender and game-caller, the 25-year-old switch-hitter has the potential to hit for both average and power.
Aaron Altherr has struggled to produce at the plate over parts of three big league seasons, but the 25-year-old has untapped power and speed that could finally come out with a change of scenery. He's got the defensive chops to play center field but the arm strength to handle a corner outfield spot.
The Tigers also shed Martinez's $11.75 million 2017 salary from its books. While that alone won't get the club under the luxury tax threshold, it does move them closer to that goal.

San Diego Gets: IF Tim Beckham
Tampa Bay Gets: RHP Mason Thompson
                
Rumor/Speculation
MLB.com's A.J. Cassavell reports that San Diego is searching for a shortstop to compete with Luis Sardinas in spring training, ideally a "talented but unproven youngster."
                           
Why It Makes Sense For the Padres
Tim Beckham fits the description of a "talented but unproven youngster" who can provide competition for Luis Sardinas at shortstop. Beckham has shown flashes of potential but has never been able to sustain it in limited playing time with Tampa Bay.
Arbitration-eligible for the first time this winter, the 26-year-old made significant strides defensively last season but struggled to make consistent contact. Even with those issues, he nearly graded out as a league-average run producer in 2016, per FanGraphs' wRC+ metric (weighted runs created plus), where a score of 100 is average.
Getting away from the team that made him the top overall pick in the 2008 MLB draft—and the expectations that come along with that distinction—could be what he needs to finally put it all together.
                                          
Why It Makes Sense For the Rays
With Matt Duffy entrenched as the team's starting shortstop and the versatile Daniel Robertson nearly ready for his first taste of the majors, Beckham is expendable for the Rays. 
Mason Thompson is still years away from potentially contributing but has a mid-90s fastball that should tick up as he adds bulk to his 6'7" frame and the makings of solid secondary offerings. There's some injury risk, as he underwent Tommy John surgery as a junior in high school, but the upside is there.
He's a player worth taking a flier on as the Rays continue to restock their seemingly never-ending pipeline of intriguing young arms, the next wave of which is just about to hit the big leagues.
                                             
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

With 2017 officially here and spring training just around the corner, the Boston Red Sox have the luxury of already having checked the big boxes on their offseason to-do list.
They didn't need much to begin with but made a splash anyway by adding Chris Sale, Mitch Moreland and Tyler Thornburg and jettisoning Clay Buchholz. A Red Sox team that won the AL East in 2016 is now projected by FanGraphs to be the American League's best in 2017.
"If we started spring training right now, we would be content where we are," Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski said after Buchholz was traded, via Tim Britton of the Providence Journal.
However, we should stop short of seeing the 2017 Red Sox as a finished product. They do have lingering questions to answer, so let's look at five free-agent and trade targets who could answer them.
     
1. Trevor Plouffe

As of now, the Red Sox have Pablo Sandoval penciled in at third base. It's an upside play in light of his improved conditioning, but also a risky play in light of his disastrous 2015 and injury-shortened 2016.
Mark Polishuk of MLB Trade Rumors is right in thinking that third base insurance tops Boston's remaining needs. The free-agent market has just the guy for it: Trevor Plouffe.
The Red Sox seem to already know this. Evan Drellich of the Boston Herald reported in late December that they have their eye on Plouffe, who spent his first seven seasons with the Minnesota Twins.
Beyond the fact he can likely be had on a cheap one-year contract, Plouffe's appeal is his solid track record. The 30-year-old has been a league-average hitter in 723 major league games. He's also played mostly passable defense at the hot corner.
If Sandoval were to prove up to the challenge he's facing, Plouffe could also serve the Red Sox as a platoon bat. He's a right-handed hitter with an .809 OPS against left-handed pitching. He also has experience at first base, left field, right field, second base and shortstop in addition to third base. 
Of course, Plouffe may prefer a more direct opportunity to be an everyday player on another team. That's why the Red Sox need a Plan B, such as…
    
2. Adam Rosales

Plouffe isn't the only right-handed utility type the Red Sox have on their radar. According to Rob Bradford of WEEI, Adam Rosales is on there as well.
As well he should be. Rosales isn't so much a utility man as he is the utility man. He's played at least 80 games at all four infield positions and also has some experience in left field and right field.
What Plouffe has that Rosales doesn't is an offensive track record. Rosales is only a .227 career hitter with a .665 OPS, making him an easily below-average hitter.
However, Rosales is coming off a breakthrough in his age-33 season in 2016. He put up a career-high .814 OPS with 13 home runs for the San Diego Padres. He backed all this up with a 36.9 hard-hit percentage, a career best by plenty.
Rosales is certainly more appealing as a platoon player than as a possible everyday third baseman. But if he were to pick up where he left off on offense, he would have more than just a steady glove to offer while playing the hot corner.
The Red Sox need a Plan C in their search for a third base/utility type. He might be a long shot, but there's one guy on the trade market who sticks out…
       
3. Hernan Perez

The Red Sox may have missed their shot at acquiring Hernan Perez. If they really wanted him, they may have found a way to include him in the trade that brought Thornburg from the Milwaukee Brewers for Travis Shaw.
But never say never.
Perez quietly found his stride in 2016. The 25-year-old played in 123 games and posted a .730 OPS with 13 homers and 34 stolen bases. He mostly played third base but also some right field, second base and first base.
Perez's 2016 breakout didn't end when the MLB season ended. He also starred (h/t Jim Goulart of Brewerfan.net, via Brew Crew Ball) in the Venezuelan winter league, winning the batting title and the Gold Glove at third base.
Perez's rising star could make the Brewers want to hold on to him. But it also gives him trade value that could only go down in 2017. With Shaw locked in at third base and the other three positions on the infield also spoken for, Perez is only projected to be a utility guy.
The Red Sox would have to give up something (or somethings) of value to get Perez. But if they got him, they would get a younger, more controllable version of what Plouffe and Rosales could be for them—and with more upside, to boot.
Elsewhere, the Red Sox's list of needs comes down to some low-risk starting pitching depth. That makes them a fit for…
       
4. Scott Feldman

The Red Sox traded Buchholz in part because it didn't make sense to pay $13.5 million to a guy who wasn't guaranteed a rotation spot.
With Buchholz gone, however, the Red Sox do have a slight depth issue in their rotation. Sale, Rick Porcello and David Price are an elite trio at the front. After them will be some combination of Eduardo Rodriguez, Steven Wright or Drew Pomeranz, each of whom has durability questions.
It wouldn't hurt for the Red Sox to add another body to the mix. But their options are limited. They can only target guys who are in a position to accept an opportunity rather than a clearly defined role. And ideally, whoever they pick up could also be used in relief.
Hence, Scott Feldman.
The 33-year-old has been effective when healthy over the last four seasons, posting a 3.85 ERA. But he's also no longer a lock to stay in anyone's rotation anymore. He made just 18 starts in 2015 and found himself pitching mostly in relief in 2016.
This makes Feldman just the kind of guy the Red Sox are looking for: a veteran who could be signed for cheap as rotation insurance and could be stashed in the bullpen if no starting role materializes.
There's one other free agent who matches this description…
    
5. Bud Norris

Bud Norris is a lot like Feldman. Once a semireliable starter, he's fallen on hard times as he's gotten older and is now in a position to try to latch on wherever he can.
Unlike Feldman, Norris hasn't been effective when he's been healthy in recent seasons. The 31-year-old has put up a 5.79 ERA since 2015, in which he's started 30 games and appeared in relief in 43 others.
Norris still has some of the qualities that once made him a decent back-end starter, however. He's maintaining his fastball velocity well, sitting in the 93-94 mph range. In a related story, he's still a solid strikeout artist.
Norris is also a better bet than Feldman to stay healthy. Beyond being younger, Norris doesn't have anything as serious as Feldman's Tommy John surgery or microfracture knee surgery in his injury history.
These last two aren't exactly sexy names, to be sure. But when a team's to-do list is down to names like Feldman and Norris, that's how you know that team is in good shape.
     
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. 


No player enters free agency hoping to sign in January. No team wants to let half the winter go by with significant needs unfilled.
But here we are in the new year. Free agents remain unsigned. Deals that had to be made remain undone.
And Jose Bautista wonders where it all went wrong. Or maybe he doesn't.
If Edwin Encarnacion waited forever before landing with the Cleveland Indians on a three-year, $60 million deal, Bautista has waited forever and two weeks to find his next employer. The Minnesota Twins have waited forever to get a Brian Dozier trade done. The New York Mets still have too many outfielders, and the Atlanta Braves still haven't improved behind the plate.
Oh, and after trading Chris Sale and Adam Eaton in two much-praised deals, the Chicago White Sox have gone nearly a month without more rebuilding.
There's plenty still to do as we wait for Hall of Fame voting results and the start of spring training.
Reporting day is just six weeks away. Now these guys just need to know where to report.
We're here to help, with Bleacher Report's predictions for where the top remaining winter targets will land.

The Chicago White Sox have big-ticket items available on their shelf, and Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe wrote Saturday first baseman Jose Abreu has been the target of more interest than Todd Frazier. That's understandable because a team could control Abreu for three years, while Frazier will be a free agent next winter.
The years of control, though, make for little urgency in moving Abreu, unless the White Sox get offers like the ones that convinced them to trade Chris Sale and Adam Eaton last month. There's less to be gained by holding on to Frazier, who turns 31 just before spring training begins.
Frazier overcame a slow start to hit 40 home runs in his one year in the American League, but it's easier to see a National League team picking him up in hopes he returns to the form that made him a two-time All-Star with the Cincinnati Reds. The San Francisco Giants, who could use a bat and some help at third base, seem like a logical fit.
It can't hurt that Frazier is a career .358 hitter at AT&T Park.
Prediction: The White Sox trade Frazier to the Giants.

It shouldn't be that tough to trade a three-time All-Star who can carry a team when he gets hot. But it seemed to take the Cincinnati Reds forever to move Jay Bruce before they dealt him to the New York Mets on Aug. 1, and now the Mets have gone more than a month since they re-signed Yoenis Cespedes without reducing their glut of corner outfielders.
Bruce didn't end up being a great fit in New York, and he became even less of one when the Mets said Cespedes will play left field. With three other corner outfielders (Curtis Granderson and Michael Conforto in addition to Bruce), a trade seemed inevitable.
It still does, and Bruce remains the most logical one to go. Granderson can play center field if needed, and Conforto offers too much hope for the future.
The Mets have no doubt been hurt by the number of corner outfield types on the free-agent market. Many of them remain available, but teams looking for bargains could see Bruce at $13 million as a good deal. He'll be motivated as he heads to free agency next winter.
So where does he go? It's just a guess because no team has been publicly connected to Bruce, but the Tampa Bay Rays make some sense. Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times reported last month they might be open to a discounted one-year deal with Jose Bautista. He lives in the area, but it's unlikely his price would ever get low enough for the small-budget Rays.
Bruce's $13 million is a lot as well, but perhaps the Mets will agree to pay some of it down.
Prediction: The Mets trade Bruce to the Rays.

When the Baltimore Orioles signed Welington Castillo to be their new catcher, it seemed clear Matt Wieters would move on after eight years that didn't match the hype but did result in four All-Star appearances and two trips to the playoffs.
According to Dan Connolly of Baltimore Baseball.com, agent Scott Boras told reporters three weeks ago he didn't expect Wieters to sign until January because the catching market often develops late. If so, maybe Wieters' market will get better this month.
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Washington Nationals have long been connected to Wieters—a natural fit given their need for catching and history with Boras clients. So have the Atlanta Braves, who are another natural fit given their even more desperate need for catching and that Wieters played at Georgia Tech.
The Nationals already acquired Derek Norris this winter. Wieters would be an upgrade, but they may not want to spend big to get him. The Braves have the bigger need, with unimpressive holdovers Tyler Flowers and Anthony Recker as their two catchers.
Prediction: Wieters signs with the Braves.

Ryan Braun would be higher on this list if not for a contract that runs through 2020, when he'll be 36. The contract also limits the number of teams the Milwaukee Brewers can trade Braun to without his approval.
A deal with the Los Angeles Dodgers has always seemed a fit given their financial resources and Braun's Southern California roots. But a Brewers-Dodgers trade that Fox Sports' Ken Rosthenal reported was discussed last summer never happened, and speculation it could be rekindled this winter hasn't yet led to much.
It figures the Brewers will still try, with the Dodgers or anyone else. As important as Braun has been to the club, their best hope to speed up the rebuilding process would be to trade him for younger talent. But it won't be easy.
Prediction: Braun stays with the Brewers—at least for now.

It's hard to blame the Cleveland Indians for choosing Edwin Encarnacion once his price fell into their range. But they understood Mike Napoli's value, as most of his former employers have.
The Texas Rangers are one of those former employers, and Napoli nearly won them their first World Series by driving in 10 runs against the St. Louis Cardinals in 2011. It's hardly a surprise the Rangers have shown interest in bringing him back, with MLB.com's T.R. Sullivan reporting last week the sides were "moving closer" to a two-year deal.
Texas needs offensive help after Carlos Beltran, Ian Desmond and Mitch Moreland all left as free agents.
Prediction: Napoli signs with the Rangers.

After the Washington Nationals traded for Adam Eaton instead of Andrew McCutchen, Pittsburgh Pirates general manager Neal Huntington said it was unlikely he'd trade McCutchen this winter, per MLB.com's Adam Berry.
A trade was probably unlikely in the first place, and it may still be unlikely now. But the reasons Huntington had for exploring a deal remain valid. McCutchen is heading into his final two years of team control, and the budget-conscious Pirates are unlikely to extend a player who will be 32 at the end of his contract.
Pittsburgh isn't giving up on contending in 2017, so McCutchen still has value to it. But as the free-agent market for outfielders becomes clearer, perhaps Huntington will find an offer to his liking. The Toronto Blue Jays could be a natural trading partner, especially if Jose Bautista ends up elsewhere. ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick tweeted Christmas Eve that the Jays had "kicked around" McCutchen's name.
Prediction: The Pirates trade McCutchen to the Blue Jays.

There's no trade deadline in the winter, which is one reason some of these sagas drag on and on. The Minnesota Twins apparently want to create some urgency in the Brian Dozier market, with La Velle E. Neal III of the Star Tribune reporting Friday they've asked teams for their best offer.
Neal wrote the Twins are prepared to keep Dozier if they don't like any of the offers, and perhaps they will. But he's two years from free agency, which means this could be the best time to trade him, and he's one player who could bring back the young pitching Minnesota needs.
The Los Angeles Dodgers have long been mentioned as a good trade partner for the Twins because they need a second baseman and right-handed power and have young pitching to offer. Neal noted Minnesota has asked for pitcher Jose De Leon and another prospect.
Prediction: The Twins trade Dozier to the Dodgers.

Once the Chicago White Sox committed to rebuilding, Chris Sale was always going to be the big prize. But Jose Quintana isn't a bad second choice, especially in a winter in which the free-agent market for starting pitchers is so weak.
The White Sox can keep Quintana, whose contract includes club options through 2020. The deal shouldn't limit the market, either, because Quintana makes only $6 million in 2017 and just $10.5 million in each of the two option years.
Quintana is a harder sell than Sale as a staff ace, but he would be a significant front-end upgrade for many teams. The New York Yankees have been mentioned frequently, including by MLB.com's Jon Morosi, and ESPN's Buster Olney tweeted the Pittsburgh Pirates have worked hard on a possible Quintana deal. Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle reported during the winter meetings that the Houston Astros asked about Quintana but found the initial asking price too high.
That's normal in negotiations, and it still would make sense for the Astros and White Sox to come together. Houston has plenty of young talent, and while it's upgraded offensively with Carlos Beltran, Josh Reddick and Brian McCann, the rotation still isn't imposing.
Prediction: The White Sox trade Quintana to the Astros.

Mark Trumbo and the Baltimore Orioles ended up being a near-perfect fit in 2016 after the club got him in a bargain deal with the Seattle Mariners. He won't be as big a bargain this time around, even with a market that has developed so slowly that he's still available.
On Wednesday, Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports listed Trumbo as the best slugger still available. I have him second, but either way, he has big value. Heyman suggested Trumbo could still return to the Orioles, even after he turned down a four-year offer.
While I could see that happening, I like the idea of Trumbo going to the Colorado Rockies to play first base, with Ian Desmond moving to his more natural spot in the outfield. Rockies general manager Jeff Bridich said on MLB Network Radio two weeks ago that Trumbo remains on their radar.
You would think Colorado would be on Trumbo's radar, too. In just 12 career games at Coors Field, he has hit eight home runs.
Prediction: The Rockies sign Trumbo.

When the idea of the Baltimore Orioles signing Jose Bautista came up, Orioles executive vice president of baseball operations Dan Duquette dismissed it.
"Jose is a villain in Baltimore, and I'm not going to go tell our fans that we're courting Jose Bautista for the Orioles because they're not going to be happy," Duquette told Eduardo A. Encina of the Baltimore Sun.
Bautista is a villain in a lot of places, but he's also a free agent who hasn't found the market he would like and could be a late bargain for the team that signs him. Duquette has a history of finding such deals, and his Orioles will need a boost from somewhere if Mark Trumbo signs with another team.
If they don't find that boost, then their fans really wouldn't be happy.
Bautista could still end up going back to the Toronto Blue Jays, but Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports penned a few reasons why he thinks that's unlikely. Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times reported the Tampa Bay Rays could be open to a one-year deal with Bautista, but only at a bargain price.
At this point, Bautista's deal should look like a bargain for whichever team signs him, but perhaps that won't be enough of a bargain to interest the Jays or Rays. It may be enough of a bargain, however, for Orioles fans to welcome a villain.
Prediction: The Orioles sign Bautista.

This winter, most Boston Red Sox-related headlines have focused on prospects on their way out of town. Most notably, the Red Sox shipped a gaggle of young talent to the Chicago White Sox in the Chris Sale trade, including five-tool Cuban Yoan Moncada.
There are still blue chips left on Boston's table, however. One of them appears poised to win a starting job out of spring training and become MLB's latest rookie star.
I'm speaking, in case that headline and photo up there didn't give the game away, about Andrew Benintendi.
In 34 games with the Red Sox last season, Benintendi flashed big-time potential, posting a .295/.359/.476 slash line with 11 doubles, a triple and two home runs.
He also provided one of the few bright spots in Boston's division series sweep at the hands of the Cleveland Indians when he homered in Game 1:
The seventh overall pick in 2015, the 22-year-old looks like the odds-on favorite to claim the Sox's starting left field gig. Since he kept his rookie status intact, he's also among the favorites for American League Rookie of the Year honors.
Are we getting ahead of ourselves based on a small sample? Possibly. The list of highly rated prospects who raked on a short audition only to struggle over a full season is long. Somewhere right now, a big league pitcher is studying film of Benintendi's swing and figuring out how to exploit it.
Benintendi, however, has the tools and temperament for sustained success.
In August, J.J. Cooper of Baseball America called him "one of the most polished hitters of the past few drafts." That was before Benintendi's successful big league debut but after he'd slashed .312/.392/.540 while rocketing through the minors.
He showed excellent plate discipline in his MLB stint, swinging at just 25.2 percent of pitches outside the strike zone compared to the league average of 30.3 percent. He barreled up many of the pitches he did swing at, making hard contact 32.9 percent of the time. That compares favorably to fellow Red Sox outfielder and AL MVP runner-up Mookie Betts' hard-contact rate of 33.4 percent.
Skeptics can point to Benintendi's admittedly robust .367 batting average on balls in play, but patient hitters who make loud contact tend to have higher BABIPs. They might also note that the lefty swinger hit .179 against southpaws, though that came in a scant 33 MLB plate appearances.
Steamer projects a .282/.338/.439 slash line with 10 home runs and 14 stolen bases in 2017. Boston would take that, but Benintendi's ceiling is much higher.
The mental aspect of the game is harder to quantify, but it's equally essential for success. In lieu of stats, we'll turn to Red Sox manager John Farrell, who had this to say to reporters during the division series:
[He's] in the Major League postseason, and much like we talked about what makes a guy wired to perform in postseason, he's calm. Even before the postseason started, he's been a guy that's never really panicked, even when he's been in a disadvantaged count at the plate. It's almost like you watch, his athletic movements are graceful. It's almost like a window into what his mind is going through. It's even, it's under control, and he plays like that.
Benintendi made the bulk of his minor league starts in center field, but that position is taken by All-Star Jackie Bradley Jr. Rather, Benintendi will continue to learn the nuances of the Green Monster and join Bradley (age 26) and Betts (age 24) to form one of the most athletic outfield troikas in the game.
They can dance, too.

The Red Sox didn't sign or trade for a top-tier slugger to replace retired franchise icon David Ortiz. Instead, they added ancillary pieces such as Mitch Moreland, gilded the rotation with Sale and are putting their faith in this young core to carry the offense.
They've got Big Papi's stamp of approval.
"Those are the players you want on your ballclub," Ortiz said to reporters of Benintendi, Bradley, Betts and shortstop Xander Bogaerts (the new Killer B's?). "Young, talented, and with that mentality, that's on another level."
Here's an interesting thought experiment: Imagine if Benintendi dukes it out with Moncada for ROY honors. It's no guarantee, but it's far from far-fetched.
If it happens, Beantown fans will doubtless feel the sting of watching the stud who changed his Sox. At the same time, they'll be able to take solace in the one who stuck around.
   
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

The calendar may have flipped to 2017, but we're still a couple of cold months away from baseball. That's actually good news (hear me out) for many MLB clubs with unfinished items on their to-do lists.
Like, say, the New York Yankees, who have holes to plug in the starting rotation, the bullpen and behind the dish.
Let's examine a few realistic trade and free-agent targets, with the key word being "realistic." Not all of these deals will go down, but they're tied to credible rumors—or at least informed speculation—and a sense of the Yankees' needs and resources.
They could hypothetically use Mark Trumbo's pop, for example, but he's not in the budgetary plans. Plus, where would they put him?
We'll begin with a veteran backup catcher and work our way to a left-handed All-Star. Tap the (frozen) clay off your (proverbial) cleats and dig in when ready.

The Yankees have handed the keys to their catching kingdom to Gary Sanchez, who posted a 1.032 OPS in 53 games last season and finished second in American League Rookie of the Year voting.
After trading veteran Brian McCann to the Houston Astros, however, they've left Sanchez with little back up.
Austin Romine is the front-runner on the current roster, but his .222/.256/.329 career slash line doesn't inspire confidence.
New York obviously isn't going to shell out for a top-shelf name in the Matt Wieters mold, but there are realistic options on the market.
Kurt Suzuki isn't the same player who made the All-Star team in 2014, but he slashed .294/.332/.447 in the first half for the Minnesota Twins last season and finished with eight home runs and 49 RBI. 
Suzuki is an average defensive player at best, but he'd provide a right-handed bat off the bench and some seasoned insurance for Sanchez.

The Yankees have their closer in $86 million man Aroldis Chapman. The only other lefty locked into the bullpen is Tommy Layne, though, which means New York could seek out another southpaw.
Jerry Blevins excelled in Gotham last season, posting a 2.79 ERA with 52 strikeouts in 42 innings for the New York Mets. He's been especially deadly against left-handed hitters in his career, holding them to a .588 OPS.
The 33-year-old is seeking a three-year deal with an annual value around $5 million, per Brendan Kuty of NJ Advanced Media. That may be more than the Yankees are comfortable spending after opening the vault for Chapman. 
Along with Dellin Betances, Tyler Clippard and Adam Warren, however, Blevins would form one of the game's deeper pens.

New York's biggest need, without question, is in the starting rotation.
Masahiro Tanaka is coming off a healthy, ace-like season. After that, it's creaky veteran CC Sabathia, hard-throwing but mercurial Michael Pineda and some combination of Luis Severino, Bryan Mitchell, Luis Cessa and Chad Green.
All except Mitchell owned ERAs north of 4.00 last season, and Green has a grand total of eight big league starts under his belt.
This year's free-agent starting pitcher pool is comically shallow, and it's not getting any deeper as the winter wears on.
There are options with upside, however, including right-hander Jason Hammel.
Hammel posted a 3.83 ERA in 166.2 innings last season for the Chicago Cubs and would slot into the back end of New York's starting five. The 34-year-old is no one's idea of a rotation anchor and may have to settle for a short-term deal, per FanRag Sports' John Perrotto. 
He's shown he can still be an effective big league pitcher, however, and he's a realistic (if unsexy) low-cost target.

Turning to the trade front, the Kansas City Royals' Danny Duffy is an interesting under-the-radar target.
The 27-year-old went 12-3 with a 3.51 ERA in 179.2 innings last season with 188 strikeouts next to 42 walks. He has a final year of arbitration remaining before he hits the market, which means he doesn't necessarily fit with a long-term vision.
It also means he won't force the Yankees to gut their restocked farm system.
Duffy's name hasn't cropped up in many rumors, though MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported the Royals were "gauging interest" on the left-hander during the winter meetings. 
One other caveat to consider: Duffy is a fly-ball pitcher, which could hurt him at home run-happy Yankee Stadium.

Every deal listed up to now would arguably upgrade the Yankees' roster and fill a need, but none would grab front-page headlines.
A trade for Chicago White Sox left-hander Jose Quintana decidedly would.
Quintana has eclipsed 200 innings in each of the past four seasons. Last season, he posted a career-low 3.20 ERA and finished 10th in American League Cy Young Award balloting. Between 2013 and 2016, Quintana's 18.1 WAR ranked seventh among pitchers by FanGraphs' measure. 
He'll make $7 million in 2017 and $8.85 million in 2018, followed by $10.5 million team options in 2019 and 2020.
He is, in short, an affordable, controllable stud. Along with Tanaka, he'd form one of the top righty-lefty combos in baseball and help the Yankees keep pace with the Boston Red Sox, who already acquired Quintana's former teammate and co-ace, Chris Sale.
All that said, he won't come cheap. The Yankees would have to part with some of the top chips from a system Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked No. 1 in the game in September.
New York is apparently considering it. The Yankees and Pittsburgh Pirates have been the "most aggressive teams" on Quintana, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale, and there have even been three-team discussions involving New York, Pittsburgh and Chicago.
General manager Brian Cashman has so far resisted the urge to raid his cache of prospects. That doesn't mean he won't if the right deal comes along.
"I think we'll stay engaged in the marketplace, and over time if we do match-up favorably with somebody where we can get what we want and they get what they want, then yes, we'll try to get something," Cashman said recently on MLB Network's "High Heat" (h/t Kuty).
Whether that something is Quintana remains to be seen—but there's no doubt it would generate headlines.
   
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

There is roughly one month remaining before pitchers and catchers begin reporting to spring training, but there are still a number of impact options on the free-agent market.
Mark Trumbo, Jose Bautista, Matt Wieters, Mike Napoli and Michael Saunders headline the remaining available position players; Jason Hammel and injury returnee Tyson Ross are the top starting pitchers still looking for a new home; and Neftali Feliz, Jerry Blevins, Boone Logan, Joe Blanton and Greg Holland represent impact relief options.
Where those remaining free agents wind up landing can still change the complexion of the offseason heading into spring training.
For now, though, we can get a pretty good gauge on how all 30 MLB teams' offseason activity looks and whether they've come away a better team after a busy winter.
With that in mind, what follows is an offseason report card for each team.
The following factors went into grading each club's offseason:
 
Note: The number in parentheses following each prospect addition reflects where the player currently ranks among the organization's top 30 prospects, according to MLB.com's Prospect Watch.

Notable MLB Additions: SP Taijuan Walker, RP Fernando Rodney, SS Ketel Marte, C Jeff Mathis, OF Jeremy Hazelbaker, OF Oswaldo Arcia, RP Tyler Jones (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: SS Jean Segura, C Welington Castillo, RP Daniel Hudson, SP Rubby De La Rosa, C Tuffy Gosewisch, OF Rickie Weeks, OF Mitch Haniger, OF Peter O'Brien, 1B/OF Kyle Jensen, OF Gabriel Guerrero
 
Offseason Review
The Arizona Diamondbacks went all-in last winter with the signing of Zack Greinke and blockbuster trade to acquire Shelby Miller.
The result: A wildly disappointing 93-loss season.
That's led to a more calculated approach this offseason as the team will be counting instead on bounce-back seasons from those pitchers, among others, and healthy performances from the likes of A.J. Pollock and David Peralta.
That's not to say they've been inactive, as they shipped standout infielder Jean Segura to the Seattle Mariners for a pair of high-upside players in right-hander Taijuan Walker and shortstop Ketel Marte in one of the bigger trades of the offseason.
There's also been a shakeup at the catcher position after Welington Castillo was surprisingly non-tendered, with veteran Jeff Mathis added to back up Chris Herrmann.
That move saved them a nice chunk of change, as did the decision to go with veteran Fernando Rodney as the team's closer on a one-year, $2.75 million deal that includes $4 million in incentives.
Walker and Rodney are nice additions, but after finishing last in the majors with a 5.09 ERA a year ago, they're relying heavily on better performances across the board from their in-house arms.
While a winning record is not out of the question, it's hard to see this team making a serious run at the postseason.
 
Grade: B-

Notable MLB Additions: SP Bartolo Colon, SP R.A. Dickey, SP Jaime Garcia, UT Sean Rodriguez, C Tuffy Gosewisch, SP John Danks, RP Jordan Walden, RP Armando Rivero (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: OF Alex Jackson (13), RP Luke Jackson (23)
 
Notable Losses: C A.J. Pierzynski, RP Chris Withrow, SP Williams Perez, SP Rob Whalen, SP Max Povse, SP John Gant, SP Chris Ellis, 2B Luke Dykstra
 
Offseason Review
The Atlanta Braves entered the offseason looking to improve in the short term while still keeping their focus on the future and continued rebuilding efforts.
That meant short-term deals for veterans that would keep them from blocking any top prospects or bogging down the payroll once they are ready to contend.
Bartolo Colon and R.A. Dickey both fit that description perfectly in the team's search for starting pitching help, and they should serve as valuable mentors to the team's stable of young arms while eating up innings.
Meanwhile, Jaime Garcia will join those two in the rotation as an intriguing bounce-back candidate after a healthy but somewhat disappointing 2016 season. He could become a valuable trade chip by July.
The buy-low move to acquire outfield prospect Alex Jackson—the No. 6 pick in the 2014 draft—from the Seattle Mariners is one that could be looked back on as a stroke of genius by the front office, and it came with little risk.
Sean Rodriguez is a great addition to the bench given his versatility and right-handed bat on a largely left-handed roster.
It's unlikely the Braves will usher in their new stadium with a contending team, but they did a nice job staying the course this offseason as they continue to build toward something big.
 
Grade: A

Notable MLB Additions: C Welington Castillo, SP/RP Logan Verrett, SP Tomo Ohka, RP Logan Ondrusek (re-signed)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: OF Anthony Santander (15), OF Adam Brett Walker (19), OF Aneury Tavarez (30)
 
Notable Losses: RF Mark Trumbo, C Matt Wieters, DH Pedro Alvarez, UT Steve Pearce, OF Michael Bourn, OF Nolan Reimold, RP Brian Duensing, RP Tommy Hunter, RP Vance Worley
 
Offseason Review
Aside from bringing aboard Welington Castillo to replace longtime catcher Matt Wieters, it's been a quiet offseason for the Baltimore Orioles.
Castillo was signed to a one-year, $6 million deal that includes a $7 million player option for 2018, so he provides the team with a short-term option behind the dish that won't block prospect Chance Sisco once he's ready to take over.
The only other real additions of note have come in the form of slugger Adam Brett Walker being claimed off waivers and a pair of outfielders in Anthony Santander and Aneury Tavarez being selected in the Rule 5 draft.
That means no significant additions to the starting rotation—a clear weakness for the team last season when the staff ranked 24th in the majors with a 4.72 ERA—and they'll be banking on the continued development of Kevin Gausman and Dylan Bundy to make a difference.
On the offensive side of things, the team stands to lose 69 home runs with Mark Trumbo and Pedro Alvarez both reaching free agency, though both players are still candidates to be re-signed.
For the time being, Joey Rickard and Trey Mancini are the leading in-house options to replace those two sluggers and that's less than ideal for a team that relies on offensive firepower.
The O's exceeded expectations last season to claim a wild-card berth, and it looks like they'll have to do the same in 2017 if they hope to make a return trip to the postseason.
 
Grade: D

Notable MLB Additions: SP Chris Sale, RP Tyler Thornburg, 1B Mitch Moreland, IF Matt Dominguez, OF Junior Lake, IF Josh Rutledge (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: DH David Ortiz, 2B Yoan Moncada, SP Michael Kopech, OF Luis Alexander Basabe, SP Clay Buchholz, RP Brad Ziegler, RP Koji Uehara, RP Junichi Tazawa, C Ryan Hanigan, IF Aaron Hill
 
Offseason Review
It's not often a player of Chris Sale's caliber is available, and the Boston Red Sox made the most of the rare opportunity with a winter-meetings blockbuster to acquire the Chicago White Sox ace.
He didn't come cheap—with top prospect Yoan Moncada and high-ceiling righty Michael Kopech headlining the prospect package sent to the White Sox—but it's a move that immediately makes the Red Sox one of the World Series favorites.
That deal also gave the team an abundance of starting pitching options, and Clay Buchholz was eventually shipped to the Philadelphia Phillies in what was essentially a salary dump.
Drew Pomeranz, Steven Wright and Eduardo Rodriguez are now left to compete for the two open rotation spots behind Sale, David Price and Rick Porcello.
Replacing David Ortiz was No. 1 on the to-do list at the start of the offseason and the team did that with the addition of Mitch Moreland, who will push incumbent first baseman Hanley Ramirez into the DH role.
Moreland was not the most exciting addition after names like Edwin Encarnacion and Carlos Beltran were floated as potential Ortiz replacements, but he's more than capable of a 20-homer, 75-RBI season and should be a significant upgrade over HanRam defensively.
The other big to-do-list item was shoring up the bullpen after Brad Ziegler, Koji Uehara and Junichi Tazawa all departed in free agency, and the team landed one of the most underrated late-inning arms in the game to fill that void when they acquired Tyler Thornburg from the Milwaukee Brewers.
Thornburg, 28, had a 2.15 ERA, 0.94 WHIP and 12.1 K/9 with 13 saves and 20 holds in 67 appearances a year ago and he's controlled through the 2019 season.
It's probably not the offseason most Red Sox fans envisioned, but it's been a wildly successful one nonetheless.
 
Grade: A+

Notable MLB Additions: RP Wade Davis, OF Jon Jay, RP Koji Uehara, RP Brian Duensing, UT Jemile Weeks, RP David Rollins, RP Fernando Rodriguez, RP Caleb Smith (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: CF Dexter Fowler, RP Aroldis Chapman, SP Jason Hammel, OF Jorge Soler, C David Ross, UT Chris Coghlan, RP Travis Wood, RP Trevor Cahill, RP Joe Smith, RP Spencer Patton
 
Offseason Review
Even with Aroldis Chapman, Dexter Fowler, Jason Hammel and Travis Wood all leaving in free agency, the Chicago Cubs would have boasted the most talented roster in baseball without making any significant moves this offseason.
That hasn't stopped them from being busy, though.
Jon Jay was signed to a one-year deal to provide some support to Albert Almora Jr. in replacing Fowler in center field, which, coupled with the return of Kyle Schwarber, left the Cubs with an abundance of outfield options.
Despite his significant upside, Jorge Soler profiled as the odd man out, and the team capitalized on his value by flipping him to the Kansas City Royals for closer Wade Davis.
Davis made a pair of trips to the DL with forearm strains last season and is in the final year of his contract. He's one of the best relievers in the game if healthy, though, and he filled arguably the biggest hole on the roster.
Veteran Koji Uehara was also brought in on a one-year, $6 million deal to provide another proven late-inning arm, as he'll join Hector Rondon, Carl Edwards Jr. and Pedro Strop in bridging the gap to Davis.
Assuming no other starting pitching additions are made, Mike Montgomery will move into the rotation, which leaves the team in need of a quality lefty option in the bullpen and more starting pitching depth.
That said, this still looks like the team to beat.
 
Grade: B+

Notable MLB Additions: SP Derek Holland, OF Rymer Liriano, RP Giovanni Soto
 
Notable Prospect Additions: 2B Yoan Moncada (1), SP Lucas Giolito (2), SP Michael Kopech (3), SP Reynaldo Lopez (4), OF Luis Alexander Basabe (9), SP Dane Dunning (10), RP Dylan Covey (28)
 
Notable Losses: SP Chris Sale, RF Adam Eaton, CF Austin Jackson, 1B Justin Morneau, C Alex Avila, RP Matt Albers, RP Daniel Webb, SP Anthony Ranaudo
 
Offseason Review
The Chicago White Sox finally pulled the trigger on a long-overdue rebuild and did it in spectacular fashion during the winter meetings.
Flipping ace Chris Sale and right fielder Adam Eaton brought the team six prospects that now rank among the top 10 in their organization, per MLB.com, including arguably the best position-player prospect (Yoan Moncada) and pitching prospect (Lucas Giolito) in the game.
There are still plenty of attractive trade chips on the roster, too.
With four years and $36.85 million left on his contract, left-hander Jose Quintana should fetch an equally impressive prospect haul if and when he's dealt.
First baseman Jose Abreu, third baseman Todd Frazier, closer David Robertson and left fielder Melky Cabrera will all be of interest to contenders as well.
Signing Derek Holland gives the team a veteran capable of stepping into Sale's spot in the rotation and one who could be flipped at the deadline if he stays healthy and productive.
Similar low-cost additions could still be made late in the offseason to fill out the MLB roster, but the focus the rest of the way will be on gauging the trade market for those aforementioned trade candidates.
There's going to be some lean years ahead for the White Sox. The franchise finally has a direction, though, and the eventual arrival of some of the best young talent in the game will give fans plenty to be excited about.
 
Grade: A+

Notable MLB Additions: UT Arismendy Alcantara, 1B/OF Richie Shaffer, OF Gabriel Guerrero, SP Tyrell Jenkins, C Stuart Turner (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: SP Alfredo Simon, RP Ross Ohlendorf, RP Keyvius Sampson, SP John Lamb, SP Josh Smith
 
Offseason Review
To be blunt, the Cincinnati Reds haven't done anything this offseason.
Three waiver claims and a Rule 5 selection are the only additions to the 40-man roster so far this winter, as they have yet to make an MLB-level signing of any sort.
No veteran bullpen help. No low-cost starting pitching depth. Nothing.
Meanwhile, second baseman Brandon Phillips and shortstop Zack Cozart are both still around despite a clear need to move at least one them to free up playing time for Jose Peraza.
Moving Phillips is easier said than done given his 10-and-5 rights, and once the Seattle Mariners acquired Jean Segura the most likely landing spot for Cozart disappeared.
Still, solving that middle-infield logjam was perhaps the biggest item on the offseason to-do list and it hasn't been accomplished.
If the Reds finish anywhere other than the NL Central cellar in 2017, it will be a surprise.
 
Grade: F

Notable MLB Additions: 1B Edwin Encarnacion, C Erik Kratz, 1B/OF Chris Colabello, RP Edwin Escobar, RP Nick Goody, SP Tim Cooney, RP Hoby Milner (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: 1B Mike Napoli, OF Rajai Davis, RP Jeff Manship, OF Coco Crisp, OF Marlon Byrd
 
Offseason Review
Entering the offseason, the largest free-agent deal in Cleveland Indians history belonged to Nick Swisher, who inked a four-year, $56 million deal prior to the 2013 season.
That distinction now belongs to Edwin Encarnacion.
When the market for the former Toronto Blue Jays slugger failed to develop as expected, the Indians swooped in and signed him to a three-year, $60 million deal to replace Mike Napoli in the middle of the lineup.
That's been the only notable addition to the roster, but a return to health from Michael Brantley—as well as starters Carlos Carrasco and Danny Salazar, who were both non-factors during the postseason—leaves the Indians looking like a significantly improved team than the one we saw in October.
And that's a scary proposition for the rest of the league.
 
Grade: A

Notable MLB Additions: 1B/OF Ian Desmond, RP Mike Dunn, UT Alexi Amarista, IF Daniel Castro, RP C.C. Lee
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: RP Boone Logan, C Nick Hundley, SP Jorge De La Rosa, 1B Mark Reynolds, UT Daniel Descalso, OF Ryan Raburn
 
Offseason Review
It's been roughly a month since the Colorado Rockies signed Ian Desmond to a five-year, $70 million deal and it still doesn't make a bit of sense.
Even if the signing served as a precursor to flipping someone like Charlie Blackmon for pitching help—which at this point doesn't appear to be the case—it still would have represented a massive overpay.
On the surface, Desmond had a nice bounce-back season on a one-year deal with the Rangers, posting a .782 OPS and recording the fourth 20-20 season of his career while making a relatively smooth transition to the outfield.
However, his bat fell off dramatically in the second half (.630 OPS, 15 XBH), and while he was a capable outfielder he was by no means a defensive standout (minus-4 DRS, minus-1.8 UZR/150). Now he's set to move to first base, where his offense carries far less value.
The only thing that saves the Rockies from an "F" grade is the addition of lefty reliever Mike Dunn.
The relief corps ranked last in the majors with a 5.13 ERA last season, so adding three or four more quality bullpen arms would be ideal. Dunn is a nice start, though, and a suitable replacement for free agent Boone Logan.
 
Grade: D-

Notable MLB Additions: C Alex Avila, IF Omar Infante, IF Brendan Ryan, RP Edward Mujica, RP William Cuevas, RP Daniel Stumpf (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Victor Alcantara (23)
 
Notable Losses: C Jarrod Saltalamacchia, SS Erick Aybar, IF Casey McGehee
 
Offseason Review
In the early days of the offseason, it looked like the Detroit Tigers might be one of the busiest teams in the league this winter as they were reportedly willing to entertain offers for everyone on the roster, per Buster Olney of ESPN.
The idea was to trim some payroll and add young talent to one of the thinnest farm systems in baseball, but to this point the only notable player to move has been outfielder Cameron Maybin.
Justin Verlander and Miguel Cabrera were always going to be tough to deal given the remaining money they're owed, and Ian Kinsler has a no-trade clause, but there are still plenty of movable parts on the roster.
J.D. Martinez is tops on that list as he gets set to enter his final year of team control, while shortstop Jose Iglesias and relievers Francisco Rodriguez and Justin Wilson also have clear value.
Instead, the Tigers appear ready to stand pat.
That leaves them in that dreaded limbo between contending and rebuilding, and they have no one to blame but themselves for lacking a clear plan or direction heading into the offseason.
 
Grade: F

Notable MLB Additions: DH Carlos Beltran, C Brian McCann, RF Josh Reddick, SP Charlie Morton, OF Nori Aoki, RP Ashur Tolliver, RP C.J. Riefenhauser
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Cionel Perez (15)
 
Notable Losses: C Jason Castro, 3B Luis Valbuena, OF Colby Rasmus, SP Doug Fister, RP Pat Neshek, SP Albert Abreu, SP Jorge Guzman, IF Nolan Fontana
 
Offseason Review
Before the winter meetings even arrived, the Houston Astros had already added the likes of Carlos Beltran, Brian McCann and Josh Reddick to the roster.
Since the meetings, they've been relatively quiet.
The missing piece of the puzzle appears to be a front-line starter to anchor the rotation, and Jose Quintana, Jake Odorizzi, Chris Archer, Danny Duffy and Yordano Ventura have all been identified as potential targets, per Brian McTaggart of MLB.com.
They have the prospect talent to pull off a major trade; it's just a matter of whether they're willing to pay the steep price it will take to get a deal done in this market.
Adding a left-handed reliever also looks like a need after a disappointing season from Tony Sipp, who is currently the top southpaw option on the roster.
C.J. Riefenhauser and Ashur Tolliver will both be in camp competing for jobs, though someone like Jerry Blevins or Boone Logan would be a welcome addition in free agency.
Big picture, even if the Astros fail to make another significant addition before the offseason is over, they've undoubtedly improved and should be ready to give the Texas Rangers a run for their money in the AL West.
 
Grade: B+

Notable MLB Additions: OF Jorge Soler, RP Bobby Parnell, C Drew Butera (re-signed)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: RP Wade Davis, DH Kendrys Morales, SP Edinson Volquez, SP Kris Medlen, RP Luke Hochevar, RP Brooks Pounders, C Tony Cruz
 
Offseason Review
The Kansas City Royals cashed in one trade chip when they flipped closer Wade Davis to the Chicago Cubs for outfielder Jorge Soler.
Soler gives the Royals a controllable, MLB-ready bat who can make an immediate impact and still has the 30-homer potential that made him one of the top prospects in baseball during his time in Chicago.
What's next for the Royals is still unclear.
Danny Duffy, Eric Hosmer, Lorenzo Cain, Mike Moustakas, Alcides Escobar and Jarrod Dyson are all headed for free agency after the 2017 season and the team simply can't afford to retain all of them.
That will likely mean trading at least a few more core pieces between now and the July non-waiver deadline, though keeping the roster intact for now in hopes of one last run in 2017 makes sense.
While the starting rotation could use another arm or two and the same goes for the bullpen after Davis was moved, the team doesn't have the money to make any significant additions, and that will likely make contending tough.
Big changes are coming in Kansas City as it appears their window to contend has slammed closed.
 
Grade: C+

Notable MLB Additions: 2B Danny Espinosa, OF Cameron Maybin, OF Ben Revere, SP Jesse Chavez, RP Andrew Bailey (re-signed), C Martin Maldonado, RP Kirby Yates, SP John Lamb, IF Nolan Fontana, OF Ryan LaMarre
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Vicente Campos (9), RP Brooks Pounders (13), RP Abel De Los Santos (24)
 
Notable Losses: SP Jered Weaver, SP C.J. Wilson, SP Jhoulys Chacin, C Jett Bandy, IF Gregorio Petit, SP Tim Lincecum, RP Blake Parker, RP Ashur Tolliver, SP Victor Alcantara, SP Kyle McGowin, RP Austin Adams
 
Offseason Review 
The Los Angeles Angels have undoubtedly improved this offseason, shoring up massive holes at second base and in left field with the additions of Danny Espinosa, Cameron Maybin and Ben Revere.
They will also have a healthy Garrett Richards back to lead the starting rotation and Huston Street back to anchor the relief corps, while swingman Jesse Chavez was a nice under-the-radar addition who provides the pitching staff with some flexibility.
Will that be enough for them to contend?
The AL West is going to be tough with the Texas Rangers, Houston Astros and Seattle Mariners all looking like legitimate contenders.
The Angels' lineup is still too right-handed, the starting rotation is somewhat lacking in depth and the bullpen could use another setup option alongside Cam Bedrosian and Andrew Bailey.
All things considered, though, they've addressed their biggest areas of need and look like a better team heading into 2017.
 
Grade: B

Notable MLB Additions: RP Kenley Jansen (re-signed), 3B Justin Turner (re-signed), SP Rich Hill (re-signed), 1B/OF Darin Ruf, RP Vidal Nuno, OF Tyler Holt, UT Darnell Sweeney
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: RF Josh Reddick, IF/OF Howie Kendrick, 2B Chase Utley, RP Joe Blanton, C Carlos Ruiz, SP Brett Anderson, RP J.P. Howell, SP/RP Jesse Chavez
 
Offseason Review
The extent of the Los Angeles Dodgers' activity so far this offseason has been taking care of their own, as they re-signed closer Kenley Jansen, third baseman Justin Turner and starter Rich Hill.
The only other significant move has been shipping an unhappy Howie Kendrick to the Philadelphia Phillies for lefty-masher Darin Ruf, who will compete for a spot on the bench.
Another step forward from Julio Urias and healthy seasons from Brandon McCarthy and Scott Kazmir would go a long way in bolstering the starting rotation, while Yasiel Puig is a clear X-factor for the offense after a strong September.
There is still a major hole to fill at second base and a setup arm or two would be nice as well.
Minnesota Twins slugger Brian Dozier looks like the team's top target at second, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, while a reunion with Chase Utley could be plan B.
A reunion with Joe Blanton to fill the need for a setup man is also still a possibility, per Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com.
Retaining those three key free agents was always the team's No. 1 focus this winter and they accomplished that. Now it's simply a matter of filling out the roster with complementary parts as they eye another NL West title.
 
Grade: B

Notable MLB Additions: RP Brad Ziegler, RP Junichi Tazawa, SP Edinson Volquez, SP Jeff Locke, C A.J. Ellis, RP Dustin McGowan (re-signed), SP/RP Kyle Lobstein, OF Matt den Dekker, RP Javy Guerra
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: RP Mike Dunn, SP Andrew Cashner, C Jeff Mathis, 1B/3B Chris Johnson, OF Jeff Francoeur, RP Fernando Rodney
 
Offseason Review
The Miami Marlins may have whiffed on top target Kenley Jansen, but they did a nice job sticking to their plan of bolstering the bullpen in hopes it can prop up a questionable starting rotation.
Brad Ziegler and Junichi Tazawa were added after Jansen re-upped with the Los Angeles Dodgers, and those two will join A.J. Ramos, Kyle Barraclough, David Phelps and Dustin McGowan to form what should be one of the best bullpens in the National League.
Jeff Locke and Edinson Volquez were signed to low-cost deals to round out the starting rotation and both former All-Stars offer some decent upside and inning-eating ability.
The addition of A.J. Ellis will also greatly benefit both the pitching staff and the development of young catcher J.T. Realmuto, who is coming off a breakout season.
The Marlins haven't had the flashiest offseason, but they've done a terrific job executing the plan they felt would give them the best chance to contend in 2017.
 
Grade: A-

Notable MLB Additions: 1B Eric Thames, 3B Travis Shaw, C Jett Bandy, RP Tommy Milone, IF Eric Sogard, IF Ivan De Jesus Jr., RP Ryan Webb, RP Steven Geltz
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SS Mauricio Dubon (9)
 
Notable Losses: RP Tyler Thornburg, 1B Chris Carter, C Martin Maldonado, RP Blaine Boyer, RP Chris Capuano
 
Offseason Review
The Milwaukee Brewers are still a year or two away from making any significant additions on the free-agent market, but they've been active nonetheless as they gear up for another season of building for the future.
Eric Thames was one of the biggest wild cards of the free-agent class as he makes his way back stateside following an impressive run in the KBO.
His three-year, $16 million deal was a great low-risk, high-reward move and a sound alternative to paying Chris Carter.
They also cashed in on the reliever market by shipping Tyler Thornburg to the Boston Red Sox for a starting third baseman in Travis Shaw, who is under control through the 2021 season, and a quality prospect in Mauricio Dubon.
Ideally, the team could find a taker for Ryan Braun, though it doesn't make sense to move him for anything less than top dollar after he turned in a terrific 2016 season.
Keep an eye on the Brewers as a potential landing spot for one of a handful of former closers still sitting on the free-agent market, as they have no clear-cut ninth-inning option after dealing Thornburg.
 
Grade: B

Notable MLB Additions: C Jason Castro, 1B Ben Paulsen, OF J.B. Shuck, RP Justin Haley (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: C Kurt Suzuki, 3B Trevor Plouffe, OF Adam Brett Walker
 
Offseason Review
Finding a suitable replacement for Kurt Suzuki to take over as starting catcher and help in the development of some quality young arms was the clear No. 1 priority for the Minnesota Twins this offseason, and it became clear early on that Jason Castro was their top target.
They eventually signed the 29-year-old to a three-year, $24.5 million deal as he'll bring a mix of power, pitch-framing ability and leadership to the roster.
Cutting ties with third baseman Trevor Plouffe has been the other significant move of the offseason.
After an injury-plagued 2016 season and with a projected arbitration salary of $8.2 million, he was an obvious non-tender candidate. That will allow Miguel Sano to settle in at his natural position after an ill-conceived experiment with right field.
One of the biggest missed opportunities of the offseason appears to be the Twins' unwillingness to shop Ervin Santana.
The 34-year-old was the team's best pitcher last season and projects to be the Opening Day starter, but with three years left on his contract, it's unlikely he'll be a part of the next contending Twins team.
His $27 million price tag over the next two years and the flexibility of a $14 million option for 2019 makes him an attractive trade target in a market lacking consistent veteran arms, and he would likely fetch a solid return.
That decision bumps down their grade in an otherwise solid offseason for a rebuilding club expected to once again reside in last place.
 
Grade: C-

Notable MLB Additions: LF Yoenis Cespedes (re-signed), 2B Neil Walker (re-signed), RP Ben Rowen
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: SP Bartolo Colon, RP Jerry Blevins, RP Fernando Salas, UT Kelly Johnson, 1B James Loney, OF Alejandro De Aza, SP Jon Niese, SP/RP Logan Verrett
 
Offseason Review
Retaining slugger Yoenis Cespedes was obviously the most important item on the agenda for the New York Met this offseason and they got it done with a shiny, new four-year, $110 million deal.
However, that has created a logjam in the outfield after Jay Bruce had his $13 million option exercised as an insurance policy should Cespedes have signed elsewhere.
Cespedes, Bruce, Curtis Granderson, Juan Lagares, Michael Conforto and Brandon Nimmo are all viable options to see time in the outfield, and the Mets have been unable to find a suitable taker for Bruce or Granderson.
Aside from sorting out that situation, shoring up the bullpen is the biggest remaining item on the to-do list.
Bringing back Jerry Blevins looks like an obvious move, though given the current market for left-handed relievers, he's headed for a significant raise over the one-year, $4 million deal he signed last offseason.
If he signs elsewhere, the bullpen will be sans a proven lefty, and with Jeurys Familia likely to be suspended for the start of the season, the relief corps as a whole would be limping into the season.
The return of Cespedes and a healthy starting rotation makes them clear contenders. There's still work to be done before the start of spring training, though.
 
Grade: B-

Notable MLB Additions: RP Aroldis Chapman, DH Matt Holliday, IF Ruben Tejada
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Albert Abreu (10)
 
Notable Losses: C Brian McCann, 1B Mark Teixeira, RP Nick Goody, SP Nathan Eovaldi, DH Billy Butler, IF/OF Dustin Ackley, RP Jacob Lindgren
 
Offseason Review
Signing Matt Holliday to a one-year, $13 million deal to take over as the primary DH made a lot of sense for a New York Yankees team in a transition period of sorts.
Signing Aroldis Chapman to a record-setting five-year, $86 million deal made considerably less sense.
A Yankees team that is unlikely to seriously contend in 2017 has little use for a high-priced closer, and given his whip-like delivery and reliance on elite velocity, it stands to reason that Chapman might not age particularly well.
Is a 33-year-old Chapman really going to be worth $17.2 million?
Meanwhile, the starting rotation has yet to be addressed as the team gets set to enter the year with Masahiro Tanaka, Michael Pineda and CC Sabathia fronting a staff full of question marks.
Flipping an expendable Brian McCann and his salary for a nice prospect return was a terrific move, and doing the same with Brett Gardner would be ideal.
The future is incredibly bright for the Yankees and Chapman will make them better in 2017, no doubt.
It's just a move that doesn't line up with what they've been building toward over the past year, and in the end it hurt their offseason grade.
 
Grade: C

Notable MLB Additions: OF Matt Joyce, 1B/OF Chris Parmelee, OF Jaff Decker, SP Josh Smith
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Norge Ruiz (12), SP Paul Blackburn (20)
 
Notable Losses: IF/OF Danny Valencia, RP Ross Detwiler, OF Sam Fuld
 
Offseason Review
The Oakland Athletics managed to find a taker for Danny Valencia, who was a potential non-tender candidate after being pushed out at third base by Ryon Healy and with more young corner-infield talent on the way.
Then they signed platoon standout Matt Joyce to a two-year, $11 million deal after he made good as a non-roster invitee with the Pittsburgh Pirates last season and posted an .866 OPS with 13 home runs and 42 RBI in 293 plate appearances.
That's about it for the A's so far this offseason.
Ho-hum.
 
Grade: C

Notable MLB Additions: SP Jeremy Hellickson (re-signed), IF/OF Howie Kendrick, SP Clay Buchholz, RP Joaquin Benoit, RP Pat Neshek, IF Andres Blanco (re-signed), C Bryan Holaday, OF Daniel Nava, IF Pedro Florimon, RP Sean Burnett
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: SP Charlie Morton, RP David Hernandez, 1B/OF Darin Ruf, SP Matt Harrison, 1B Ryan Howard, C A.J. Ellis, OF Peter Bourjos, OF Cody Asche, RP Elvis Araujo, SP David Buchanan
 
Offseason Review
The Philadelphia Phillies probably didn't want Jeremy Hellickson to accept that qualifying offer.
After no one was willing to meet their steep asking price for the right-hander at the trade deadline, they opted to hold on to him and take the draft-pick compensation that would come with extending him a qualifying offer.
Instead, he'll be back on a one-year, $17.2 million deal as he looks to prove the best season of his career was no fluke.
Looking to hit on another buy-low veteran arm this offseason, the Phillies acquired Clay Buchholz in what amounted to a cash dump by the Boston Red Sox.
While his overall numbers didn't look great last season, Buchholz finished on a roll with a 3.22 ERA and 1.11 WHIP in 58.2 innings after the All-Star break. That included a terrific final month in which he returned to the rotation and went 3-0 with a 3.14 ERA and four quality starts in five games.
Joaquin Benoit and Pat Neshek will bring a needed veteran presence to the bullpen, Howie Kendrick will do the same for the lineup and non-roster invitee Daniel Nava should have a legitimate chance to win a roster spot.
A splashy signing of someone like Jose Bautista on a short-term deal still looks like the perfect cherry on top of what has been a solid offseason.
At some point the Phillies are going to start spending again, and when they do they'll have a ton of money to work with.
 
Grade: B

Notable MLB Additions: SP Ivan Nova (re-signed), RP Daniel Hudson, RP Lisalverto Bonilla, RP Nefi Ogando, RP Tyler Webb (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: UT Sean Rodriguez, OF Matt Joyce, RP Neftali Feliz, SP Jeff Locke, SP Ryan Vogelsong, C Eric Fryer
 
Offseason Review
The Pittsburgh Pirates would have walked away with a resounding "F" a few weeks ago after trying and failing to trade the face of the franchise in Andrew McCutchen and doing little else of note.
However, signing Daniel Hudson and re-signing Ivan Nova has elevated that grade considerably.
Hudson gives the team a right-handed setup man to replace Neftali Feliz, as well as a potential option to close games should Tony Watson find himself on the trade block at some point.
The 29-year-old should benefit greatly from getting out of the desert, and his two-year, $11 million deal could prove to be one of the better bargains of the offseason.
Speaking of bargains, bringing back Nova on a three-year, $26 million deal was nothing short of a coup.
Nova was 5-2 with a 3.06 ERA, 1.10 WHIP and a 52-to-3 strikeout-to-walk ratio in 11 starts with the Pirates after coming over at the trade deadline. As one of the top starters on the market, MLB Trade Rumors predicted a four-year, $52 million deal for Nova.
The McCutchen situation was messy and the Pirates still look like a clear No. 3 in the NL Central.
The moves they have made have been terrific ones, though, as they continue to deal with small-market pitfalls.
 
Grade: B-

Notable MLB Additions: SP Jhoulys Chacin, SP Clayton Richard (re-signed), SP Zach Lee, RP Craig Stammen, C Hector Sanchez (re-signed), OF Rafael Ortega
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SS Allen Cordoba (21), RP Miguel Diaz (22), C Luis Torrens (23)
 
Notable Losses: SP Tyson Ross, C Derek Norris, UT Adam Rosales, OF Jon Jay, IF Jose Pirela, UT Alexi Amarista, OF Oswaldo Arcia, SP Edwin Jackson, SP Erik Johnson, RP Jon Edwards, RP Brandon Morrow
 
Offseason Review
If you desperately need to improve the starting rotation but are unwilling to spend any real money, you could do a lot worse than Jhoulys Chacin and Clayton Richard.
Those two now profile as the Nos. 1 and 2 starters for the San Diego Padres, joining a staff that also includes former Rule 5 pick Luis Perdomo and scrapheap salvages Christian Friedrich and Paul Clemens.
They may not be finished adding to the rotation, as they've been linked to veterans Jered Weaver and Jake Peavy, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports. As it stands, the staff looks like the worst in baseball, though.
Cutting ties with Tyson Ross and dumping Derek Norris on the Washington Nationals saves a nice chunk of money, and the latter move also opens the door for Austin Hedges to take over as the primary catcher.
As far as other additions, the team traded for a pair of Rule 5 picks in right-hander Miguel Diaz and catcher Luis Torrens, as well as taking a player of their own in infielder Allen Cordoba.
All three should have a real shot at winning a roster spot given the team's 2017 outlook—which is not particularly bright.
This is about what was expected from the Friars this winter, though.
 
Grade: C

Notable MLB Additions: RP Mark Melancon, C Tim Federowicz, 1B/OF Mike Morse, IF Jimmy Rollins, OF Justin Ruggiano, SP Josh Johnson, RP Bryan Morris, RP Jose Dominguez, RP Neil Ramirez
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: OF Angel Pagan, RP Sergio Romo, RP Santiago Casilla, RP Javier Lopez, SP Chris Heston, SP Jake Peavy, IF Gordon Beckham
 
Offseason Review
Finding a top-tier closer to anchor a leaky bullpen was the San Francisco Giants' top priority this winter and they got their guy when they signed Mark Melancon to a four-year, $62 million deal.
That's obviously a big investment on a bullpen arm, though it pales in comparison to the five-year contracts signed by Aroldis Chapman and Kenley Jansen and it was a necessary expenditure after the bullpen cost the Giants big a year ago.
Melancon will likely wind up being the only significant addition of the offseason as the team is tapped out financially, per John Shea of the San Francisco Chronicle.
That means left field will likely be manned by a platoon of Jarrett Parker and Mac Williamson.
While there have been no other notable 40-man roster additions outside of Melancon, the Giants have easily the most intriguing collection of non-roster invitees assembled so far this offseason.
Shortstop Jimmy Rollins, outfielders Justin Ruggiano and Michael Morse, reclamation project starter Josh Johnson and relievers Bryan Morris and Neil Ramirez will all be looking to impress this spring.
 
Grade: A

Notable MLB Additions: SS Jean Segura, IF/OF Danny Valencia, C Carlos Ruiz, RP Marc Rzepczynski, RP Casey Fien, SP Chris Heston, RP Zac Curtis, RP Ryan Weber, OF Taylor Motter
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Max Povse (10), SP Rob Whalen (14), OF Mitch Haniger (15), RP James Pazos (27)
 
Notable Losses: SP Taijuan Walker, SS Ketel Marte, 1B Adam Lind, OF Nori Aoki, RP Vidal Nuno, RP Tom Wilhelmsen, OF Stefen Romero, SP Zach Lee, RP Arquimedes Caminero, RP David Rollins, SP Paul Blackburn, OF Alex Jackson
 
Offseason Review
Seattle Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto has never been one to shy away from making a trade or six, and this offseason has been no different.
That big move came early when the team shipped inconsistent but supremely talented starter Taijuan Walker and infielder Ketel Marte to the Arizona Diamondbacks for shortstop Jean Segura.
The 26-year-old led the NL with 203 hits last season while batting .319/.368/.499 with 41 doubles, 20 home runs, 64 RBI, 102 runs scored and 33 stolen bases.
He'll now be setting the table for a lineup that featured a trio of 30-homer players in Robinson Cano, Nelson Cruz and Kyle Seager.
That trade also brought outfield prospect Mitch Haniger to the M's, and he should have a shot at winning the starting left field job this spring.
Danny Valencia and Carlos Ruiz bolster the bench, while Marc Rzepczynski gives the team a much-needed lefty reliever and Casey Fien should join him as a new addition to the relief corps.
There's still a glaring need for another starting pitcher after dealing Walker, and that keeps them from landing an "A" grade at the moment.
Once the rotation is sorted out, this will have been a very successful offseason for a Mariners team still searching for its first playoff appearance since 2001.
 
Grade: B+

Notable MLB Additions: CF Dexter Fowler, RP Brett Cecil, C Eric Fryer, OF Todd Cunningham, RP Jordan Schafer
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Chris Ellis (23), SP John Gant (26), SP Kendry Flores (29)
 
Notable Losses: OF Matt Holliday, SP Jaime Garcia, 1B/OF Brandon Moss, RP Jordan Walden, RP Seth Maness, RP Jerome Williams, C Brayan Pena, OF Jeremy Hazelbaker, SP Tim Cooney, RP Dean Kiekhefer
 
Offseason Review
A center fielder and a left-handed setup man were the two obvious needs for the St. Louis Cardinals when the offseason began.
Fast forward two months and they've signed arguably the top lefty setup man on the market and a true difference-maker to man center field and sit atop the lineup.
Brett Cecil was the first addition on a four-year, $30.5 million deal as he was signed to fill the void left behind when Zach Duke was lost for the season to Tommy John surgery.
Cecil struggled early in 2016, but he has a long track record of late-inning success and he finished the year strong so there's no reason to think he won't be worth the significant investment.
Then shortly after the winter meetings concluded, they inked Dexter Fowler to a five-year, $82.5 million deal, exacting some revenge on the Chicago Cubs after they watched Jason Heyward and John Lackey head the other way last winter.
He'll give the team a different dynamic out of the leadoff spot and the outfield defense as a whole should be significantly improved with Randal Grichuk now sliding over to left field.
The only other addition of note has been catcher Eric Fryer, who will presumably serve as the backup to Yadier Molina, allowing Carson Kelly more time to develop in the minors.
They still have work to do bridging the gap to the rival Cubs, and an extension for Carlos Martinez would be awfully nice, but the Cardinals have done what they needed to this offseason.
 
Grade: A+

Notable MLB Additions: C Wilson Ramos, OF Shane Peterson, RP Kevin Gadea (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: SP Dylan Thompson (30)
 
Notable Losses: 1B Logan Morrison, SS Alexei Ramirez, RP Kevin Jepsen, RP Steven Geltz, 1B/OF Richie Shaffer, OF Taylor Motter
 
Offseason Review
The Tampa Bay Rays picked up one of the biggest wins of the offseason when they got Wilson Ramos to agree to the second year of a two-year, $12.5 million deal.
Ramos will likely be sidelined until sometime around June or July, per Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times, as he continues to recover from a torn ACL suffered in September. That injury may limit him to DH duties upon returning, but the plan is still for him to return to the crouch once he's ready.
Provided he returns to his pre-injury form, that gives the Rays a year-and-a-half of top-tier production at the catcher position for about a third of what he might have earned had he not suffered that injury.
That's been the only major move of the offseason for the Rays, though, and if spring training rolls around without them moving a starting pitcher, it will have been a huge missed opportunity.
Chris Archer and Jake Odorizzi are undoubtedly the two most valuable trade chips on the staff, though it appears unlikely either will be moved.
Instead, Drew Smyly, Alex Cobb and Erasmo Ramirez look to be the starters on the block as the Rays explore their options, according to Topkin.
In this market, all three would fetch a significant return.
The decision to designate Richie Shaffer was also a head-scratcher.
A first-round pick in 2012, the 25-year-old has shown useful pop if nothing else, and for a team in need of right-handed power and a potential platoon partner for Brad Miller at first base he was a cheap solution.
The Ramos signing was one of the best of the offseason, but the Rays' activity as a whole this winter—or lack thereof—has been disappointing.
 
Grade: C-

Notable MLB Additions: CF Carlos Gomez (re-signed), SP Andrew Cashner, IF Will Middlebrooks, OF Jared Hoying (re-signed), SP Allen Webster, SP Tyler Wagner, SP Adrian Sampson, RP Mike Hauschild (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: CF Ian Desmond, DH Carlos Beltran, 1B Mitch Moreland, SP Derek Holland, SP Colby Lewis
 
Offseason Review
Letting Ian Desmond walk was one of the best decisions of the offseason by the Texas Rangers.
They instead opted to bring back Carlos Gomez on a one-year, $11.5 million deal, while watching Desmond sign a five-year, $70 million pact with the Colorado Rockies.
Gomez hit .284/.362/.543 with eight home runs and 24 RBI in 33 games with the Rangers last season after joining the team in August, while Desmond posted a .630 OPS with 15 extra-base hits after the All-Star break.
The need for a middle-of-the-rotation starter was addressed with the addition of Andrew Cashner.
The 30-year-old has always had the talent, but he's struggled with health and consistency and never really put it all together for a full season.
His upside was well worth a one-year, $10 million roll of the dice, though another starting pitcher for the sake of depth would be ideal.
The need that has not been addressed is the first base/designated hitter situation.
With Prince Fielder forced into an early retirement and both Carlos Beltran and Mitch Moreland walking in free agency, some combination of Ryan Rua, Jurickson Profar and Joey Gallo profiles to fill those two spots in the lineup.
There's obvious upside with that group and significant question marks as well. Too many question marks at a pair of premium offensive position for a team looking to contend for a title.
A reunion with Mike Napoli would be a good start.
 
Grade: B

Notable MLB Additions: DH Kendrys Morales, UT Steve Pearce, SP Brett Oberholtzer, SP T.J. House, RP Leonel Campos, RP Dominic Leone, RP Jeff Beliveau, RP Glenn Sparkman (Rule 5)
 
Notable Prospect Additions: IF Lourdes Gurriel (N/R)
 
Notable Losses: 1B Edwin Encarnacion, RF Jose Bautista, LF Michael Saunders, SP R.A. Dickey, RP Joaquin Benoit, RP Brett Cecil, SP Scott Feldman, SP Gavin Floyd, 1B/OF Chris Colabello, C Dioner Navarro
 
Offseason Review
The entire complexion of the Toronto Blue Jays roster stands to change this offseason.
Edwin Encarnacion has already found a new home in free agency and both Jose Bautista and Michael Saunders are likely to follow him, leaving the offense searching for a way to replace that production.
Signing Kendrys Morales and Steve Pearce was a nice start, but the team is still in serious need of at least one corner outfielder, and regardless of what they do the rest of the offseason, it's hard to see them not taking a step back offensively.
That being said, it's the starting rotation that was the strength of the team last season and there's no reason it shouldn't be among the best in the business once again.
However, shoring up the bullpen remains on the to-do list, as well, and the market is dwindling.
Jason Grilli will be back to set up closer Roberto Osuna, and Rule 5 pick Joe Biagini could step into a more prominent role, but the relief corps as a whole is weak after Brett Cecil and Joaquin Benoit signed elsewhere.
A patient approach to addressing some rather significant needs could come back to bite the Blue Jays when all is said and done.
 
Grade: D

Notable MLB Additions: CF Adam Eaton, C Derek Norris, OF Chris Heisey (re-signed), IF Emmanuel Burriss, SP Jacob Turner, RP Austin Adams, RP Jimmy Cordero, RP Tim Collins
 
Notable Prospect Additions: None
 
Notable Losses: RP Mark Melancon, C Wilson Ramos, IF Danny Espinosa, OF Ben Revere, IF Stephen Drew, SP Mat Latos, RP Matt Belisle, RP Marc Rzepczynski, RP Sean Burnett, RP Yusmeiro Petit, SP Lucas Giolito, SP Reynaldo Lopez, SP Dane Dunning
 
Offseason Review
The Washington Nationals gave up an unfathomable amount of prospect talent to acquire a complementary—it's as simple as that.
Yes, Adam Eaton had a 6.2 WAR in 2016.
And yes, he has a very team-friendly contract that runs through the 2021 season.
And who knows, maybe Lucas Giolito will be a flop and Reynaldo Lopez will eventually move to the bullpen.
We won't truly know how this deal turns out until years from now, but right now, it looks like a desperate mistake by a Nationals team that just wanted to do something after missing out on Chris Sale.
And if the Eaton trade signals an all-in move by the Nationals to try to win in 2017, then why not go sign Matt Wieters to fill the hole at the catcher position?
Derek Norris is a clear downgrade from Wilson Ramos and a fringe starter in general if his production is anything like we've seen the past two seasons.
Then there's the closer spot, which the Nationals have failed to address following the departure of Mark Melancon.
Shawn Kelley has the stuff to step into the role and succeed, but again, if the team is set on winning, you need a proven arm in that spot.
They still look like one of the best teams in the National League, but it's been a puzzling offseason to say the least for the Nationals.
 
Grade: F
 
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Projected salaries courtesy of MLBTradeRumors. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted.
Some of this slideshow's analysis originally appeared in MLB Teams' Updated To-Do List.

Whether it's at the lowest levels of amateur baseball or in MLB, few positions have a bigger impact on a team's success—or lack thereof—than catcher. Not only are these players expected to contribute offensively, but they must masterfully handle a pitching staff and control the opposition's running game.
Teams spend years trying to develop them and, when they develop a keeper, are hesitant to let one get away. For it can take years to find a suitable replacement. Just ask the Chicago White Sox, a team that has yet to recover from A.J. Pierzynski's departure as a free agent following the 2012 season.
Keep in mind that this isn't a list or ranking of the best catchers in baseball—that'll come as we get closer to Opening Day. Rather, this is a look at catchers who, for a variety of reasons, are among the most intriguing at their position as spring training approaches.
It's a list that includes current (and former) highly thought of prospects, as well as players who are working their way back from injuries. There's even one catcher who, thanks to his athleticism and his team's needs elsewhere, could transition from a full-time backstop into a utility player, the likes of which we've never seen before.
About whom, and what, are we talking? Let's take a look.

The centerpiece of the package Philadelphia got from Texas in the Cole Hamels trade, Jorge Alfaro managed to stay healthy and put together a solid showing for Double-A Reading in 2016, enough to get his first taste of the big leagues after rosters expanded in September.
But with Cameron Rupp and Andrew Knapp ahead of him on the organizational depth chart and veteran journeyman Bryan Holaday in camp on a non-roster invite, it would seem that Alfaro's path to regular playing time in the big leagues is blocked.
That said, Philadelphia general manager Matt Klentak acknowledges that, at some point in the upcoming season, the team is going to have to find out what it has in the 23-year-old backstop. 
“Andrew Knapp just finished his age 25 season in Triple A,” Klentak told CSNPhilly.com's Jim Salisbury in early December. “At some point for both he and Alfaro, we’re going to have to find out what those guys can do at the big-league level. During the 2017 season, we’ll have to find out — not just about those two guys — but others."
Nobody would dispute that Alfaro has the highest upside among the group, which begs the question: Could he play his way onto the Opening Day roster with a strong showing this spring?

It wasn't that long ago that Christian Bethancourt and Austin Hedges were considered two of the best catching prospects in baseball. Come spring training, we could see Hedges catching Bethancourt, who San Diego is trying to turn into a hybrid player who can catch, play the outfield and pitch.
In other words, the Padres are turning the 25-year-old into a baseball unicorn.
Dennis Lin of the San Diego Union-Tribune was the first to report on the team's plans for Bethancourt back in October, while the Padres' Bill Center confirmed as much recently in a piece he wrote for MLB.com, noting that the 25-year-old will be pitching in the Panamanian Winter League, which begins Jan. 6.
With Hedges seemingly entrenched as the team's starting catcher and Rule 5 draft pick Luis Torrens set to back him up (more on Torrens shortly), Bethancourt's athleticism and willingness to become more versatile could lead to a bigger role than he'd have as a backup catcher.
Could we see Bethancourt start a game behind the plate, trot out to a corner outfield spot halfway through the contest and then disappear beyond the outfield wall, only to re-emerge in the late innings as a relief pitcher?
It'll be fascinating to see how this all plays out in spring training.
 

Even if Chicago was still trying to contend in 2017, Zack Collins, the team's first-round pick in last year's MLB draft probably wasn't going to break camp with the White Sox. But with the team rebuilding, he's destined to start 2017 back in the minors.
"If he was a bat-only player he would come more quickly because the bat is more mature, more closer to big league ready than the receiving," GM Rick Hahn told CSNChicago.com's Dan Hayes. "However, we think he has a very good chance to be an everyday catcher with a premium bat and we're going to take the time to bring along the defense at the rate it requires."
How he handles himself while catching big league pitching early this spring will go a long way toward dictating what that rate is. More importantly, it'll serve as a good indication as to whether Chicago's seemingly never-ending search for its "catcher of the future" is finally over.
Given Collins' advanced approach at the plate, it's not inconceivable that he could begin to move quickly through the team's farm system if he shows enough improvement behind the plate in what limited playing time he'll receive in spring training.
 

Devin Mesoraco looked like one of baseball's best young catchers and a foundational piece that Cincinnati could build around in 2014, a season that saw him hit .273 with 25 home runs, 80 RBI and a .893 OPS while making his first All-Star appearance.
But injuries have limited him to just 36 games since, and the 28-year-old knows that this spring might be his last chance with the Reds. “They’re not going to wait around forever,” Mesoraco told the Cincinnati Enquirer's Zach Buchanan last month. “I’ve got to be out there playing."
Tucker Barnhardt did a respectable job in place of Mesoraco last season, and the Reds also have veteran journeyman Rob Brantly and Rule 5 draft pick Stuart Turner as potential fallback options. Mesoraco must not only stay healthy but show that he hasn't lost his touch after nearly two years on the sidelines.
“If I’m healthy and playing the way I’m capable of that’s somebody you want in the lineup,” Mesoraco told Buchanan. "I realize this may the last time I have an opportunity to be an everyday player and establish myself as one of better catchers in the game, the guy the organization invested in and knew they had."

Wilson Ramos won't be much more than a limited participant in his first spring training with the Tampa Bay Rays, as the 29-year-old is still working his way back from the torn ACL that ended his 2016 season—and ultimately his tenure—with the Washington Nationals.
But Ramos says that he's at least a month ahead of where he should be in his rehabilitation and believes he can start contributing far earlier than expected.
"The pace of my rehab, at the very least, I expect to be available for the team, getting at-bats, DHing, really from the beginning of May," Ramos said in mid-December, per Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times. "The people doing my therapy (in South Florida) have been really impressed."
Tampa Bay would be really impressed—and downright ecstatic—if Ramos was able to return to action so soon. As Topkin points out, the team wasn't expecting to have him available until right around the All-Star break, if not later. He'd be ready more than two months earlier in this scenario.
Finding out just how far along he is in his recovery—and how close he is to a return—makes Ramos one of the must-watch catchers this spring. 

Baltimore's addition of Welington Castillo all but ensured that top prospect Chance Sisco won't have any chance of breaking camp with the club in spring training. But Castillo's presence shouldn't be seen as a knock against the 21-year-old.
"We have a good left-handed hitting prospect in Chance Sisco,'' general manager Dan Duquette told the Baltimore Sun's Peter Schmuck in early December. "A lot of clubs would like to have Chance Sisco and we're glad we have him. I'm not sure he's going to be ready to start the season."
Sisco, who has played only four games at Triple-A, would certainly benefit from an extended run at the minors' highest level. But how he fares this spring will give the Orioles a good idea of just how much more seasoning he needs.
With the Orioles facing a potential free-agent exodus over the next two years (Chris Tillman after the 2017 season; Zach Britton, Adam Jones and Manny Machado a year later), Baltimore knows its window to contend could soon be closing.
If Duquette and manager Buck Showalter believe he gives the team its best chance of winning, it's not crazy to think that Sisco could become the left-handed part of a platoon with Castillo, bumping veteran Caleb Joseph out of the picture entirely.

Jason Castro's departure as a free agent should have, in theory, opened the door for Max Stassi to get more regular playing time in Houston. But the Astros went out and traded for Brian McCann, who along with Evan Gattis, will handle the team's catching duties.
Houston also signed Juan Centeno to a minor-league deal and has prospect Garrett Stubbs working his way through the upper levels of its farm system. That seems to leave Stassi, 25, as the odd man out and a candidate to lose his spot on the team's 40-man roster.
Injuries have limited Stassi's development, but he's young enough and has shown enough promise in limited playing time to be of interest to other teams. A strong showing in spring training could expedite his departure from Houston via trade, especially if another team suffers an injury behind the plate.
 

Blake Swihart's days as an outfielder are over, according to WEEI.com's Rob Bradford, with the 24-year-old returning to a full-time catching role in 2017. Problem is, Boston already has two catchers ahead of him on the MLB depth chart—starter Sandy Leon and backup Christian Vazquez.
That wasn't lost on former Red Sox GM Mike Hazen, who currently holds the same title in Arizona and recently contacted his former employer about the availability of Swihart and Vazquez, per the Arizona Republic's Nick Piecoro. He was told that Boston was "unlikely" to move either player.
You can't blame the Red Sox for wanting to hang onto their catching depth, especially when you consider that none of the three are sure things. Leon was terrific in 2016 but lacks a track record of success; Vazquez has yet to hit consistently (career .602 OPS); and Swihart hasn't been great defensively.
Of that trio, Swihart has the biggest upside. Could a strong showing this spring push him ahead of Leon or Vazquez? Or is he destined to start the season in Triple-A, seeing as how he still has minor-league options remaining?
You don't typically see a 20-year-old make the jump from Single-A to the majors, but that's precisely what Luis Torrens will be trying to pull off this spring. 
"He's a guy that, overall, has a chance to be a quality receiver, throwing out runners," Padres GM A.J. Preller told MLB.com's A.J. Cassavell. "He can control the strike zone and has a good swing. You're always looking for catching."
Selected by Cincinnati in the Rule 5 draft from the New York Yankees, San Diego traded for Torrens, sending infield prospect Josh VanMeter and cash to the Reds. While VanMeter isn't an elite prospect, he's more than a throw-away player. That leads Cassavell to believe the Padres intend on keeping Torrens around. 
It's a conclusion that's hard to find fault with in light of what we know the team has planned for Christian Bethancourt, who otherwise would be San Diego's full-time backup catcher, making the trade for Torrens unnecessary.
Like Bethancourt's transition to a super-utility player, it'll be fascinating to see whether Torrens can make such a big leap and break camp with the Padres.

Mike Zunino showed enough in 2016 for Seattle manager Scott Servais to proclaim his season an "absolute success" and "unbelievable" while a guest on 710 ESPN Radio's "Brock and Salk Show," per Brent Stecker of MyNorthwest.com.
But was it really? 
Zunino didn't arrive in the big leagues until July, and his first 33 games were impressive—14 extra-base hits (nine home runs), 22 RBI and a .906 OPS. But his final 22 games were forgettable, with just five extra-base hits (three home runs), nine RBI and an .621 OPS with 31 strikeouts.
Can he build upon what he showed in July and August? Or are his late-season woes a sign that, try as he might, Zunino still isn't ready to take the next step in his development? How he looks in spring training will give us a good indication of which way he's headed.
                                                                                       
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

Got a talented homegrown pitcher? Might want to hold on to that. Could be valuable someday.
Sound advice under any circumstances. And possibly growing sounder by the day.
Seemingly everyone wants controllable pitching this winter, and the asking prices reflect as much. You've probably heard the Chris Archer and Jose Quintana rumors. You certainly heard about the Chris Sale trade.
That was a big one, all right. The Chicago White Sox sent the remainder of the lefty ace's five-year contract to the Boston Red Sox for a four-player package headlined by MLB.com's No. 1 prospect, Yoan Moncada.
Jeff Sullivan of FanGraphs calculated that Sale has $84.5 million in surplus value on top of his remaining contract. Craig Edwards, also of FanGraphs, calculated that the White Sox actually got "something like" $100 million in surplus value.

Sale thus went for even more than his sticker price. It wouldn't be surprising if the same thing happened in trades of Quintana and Archer.
According to Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, the White Sox want "something similar" to what they got for Sale in a Quintana trade. That's not too big an ask given that he's one of baseball's best left-handers. And while Sale's contract controls him through 2019, Quintana's controls him through 2020.
Meanwhile, Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times reported that the Tampa Bay Rays want even more for Archer than the White Sox got for Sale. Understandable, given that he's an elite strikeout artist with a contract that controls him through 2021.
Certainly, it's not just ability and controllability that netted a huge trade package for Sale and which could do the same for Quintana and Archer. 
Including guaranteed years and options, Sale's, Quintana's and Archer's contracts owe them less than $40 million. Fair market value for elite starters (see Clayton Kershaw, Max Scherzer, David Price and Zack Greinke) is something like $30 million per year. You could say Sale, Quintana and Archer are making chump change, but even that's a stretch.
Of course, they can't be blamed for agreeing to their contracts in the first place.

They signed after they had established themselves as rising stars but before they were eligible for arbitration. They cashed in on their early success rather than risk their earning power disappearing on the road to free agency. Them being pitchers, said risk was real.
The impulse on the part of young starters to cash in ASAP isn't going away. Neither is the willingness on the part of teams to offer them the chance to do so.
For them, early extensions are a means to cost-control arbitration years and buy out free-agent years, which typically cover prime seasons in a pitcher's late 20s, at way-below-market rates. That's all the incentive teams need to pursue early extensions. Just within the last four years, this is how Sale, Quintana, Archer, Julio Teheran, Yordano Ventura and Corey Kluber got locked up.
The way things are now, though, teams must ask if they suddenly have an extra incentive to pursue early extensions for their homegrown arms. Are they worth it not just for controllability and cost-control purposes, but as a means to a major trade chip in the long term as well?
This depends on the huge demand for controllable starters having lasting power beyond the present, which is admittedly less than 100 percent guaranteed.

For one thing, there has indeed only been one major trade this winter. The asking prices for Quintana and Archer may be fair relative to that one trade, but for now, asking prices is all they are.
For another thing, there are special circumstances that contributed to the demand for Sale and which are now contributing to the demand for Quintana and Archer. Teams are always in search of top-of-the-rotation starters during the offseason, and it's never been a secret that this offseason offered none of those on the free-agent market.
The next two winters look less grim on this front. Jake Arrieta, Yu Darvish, Danny Duffy and Chris Tillman are slated for free agency after 2017. Kershaw, Price, Matt Harvey, Dallas Keuchel and Garrett Richards could all be free agents after 2018.
However, it's also not 100 percent guaranteed that the huge demand for controllable starters will dry up as soon as the free-agent market is stocked with arms again.
The presence of Price, Greinke and Johnny Cueto on last winter's market didn't stop the Atlanta Braves from making a killing in the Shelby Miller trade. He didn't even have a pre-arbitration extension, and yet the Braves still got a No. 1 pick (Dansby Swanson), a top pitching prospect (Aaron Blair) and a controllable outfielder (Ender Inciarte) for Miller's final four years of club control.

Without that trade to point to, the San Diego Padres might not have been able to swap two-and-a-half years of Drew Pomeranz for elite pitching prospect Anderson Espinoza over the summer. The Miller trade also looks like a prototype for the Sale trade.
Perhaps the Miller trade shifted the market for young, controllable starters on accident. Or, perhaps something like it was inevitable. Perhaps there's now an attitude that trading for cheap pitchers in their 20s is a better use of assets than signing expensive pitchers in their 30s.
Oh, there just might be. If we use fielding independent pitching—the most basic of the popular ERA estimators—as a measuring stick, we see that the performance gap between under-30 starters and over-30 starters has shifted in favor of the former since 2013:
 
The same effect appears when comparing xFIP and SIERA. Young pitchers have a clear edge these days.
And since it's been going on for four years, it looks more like a trend than a fluke. This could keep the demand for controllable starters cranked to 11, which could indeed be an extra excuse for teams to want to do early extensions.
The list of pitchers who could benefit is equal parts extensive and impressive. Set to qualify for arbitration in 2018 are Noah Syndergaard, Kyle Hendricks, Aaron Sanchez, Carlos Rodon and Robbie Ray. After 2019, Michael Fulmer, Lance McCullers, Steven Matz, Jon Gray and Vince Velasquez will be ready for their shots. After 2020, it will be Julio Urias, Alex Reyes, Blake Snell and Jameson Taillon.
That's a lot of candidates for pre-arbitration extensions. If for no other reasons than controllability and cost control, their teams should want to get them done.
The possibility of these contracts one day being worth a fortune on the trade market could now be the proverbial cherry on top.
      
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked.

BREAKING: Nolan Arenado and his family will live stream their #NewYearsEve Day Wiffle Ball game today!

1st pitch will be in 15-20 minutes. s://t.co/bc1Cf0x9O1
Colorado Rockies All-Star Nolan Arenado can celebrate a successful 2016, during which he hit .294/.362/.570 with 41 home runs and won his fourth straight National League Gold Glove Award.
The 25-year-old counted down to 2017 by partaking in a family whiffle ball contest. Before you cite the MLB star's clear advantage, know that his cousin, Josh Fuentes, hit 13 home runs in Colorado's farm system last season.
Fuentes created a live stream of their New Year's Eve game for Instagram users. The 23-year-old corner infielder has previously shared snippets of his makeshift batting practice (warning: videos contain NSFW language):
A photo posted by Josh fuentes (@jfuent19)
A photo posted by Josh fuentes (@jfuent19)
Let's see how Arenado fares outside of the notoriously hitter-friendly Coors Field.
[Josh Fuentes, h/t Colorado Rockies]

Former San Diego Padres catcher Chris Cannizzaro—who was the organization's first All-Star in the 1969 season—died Thursday night, according to Kirk Kenney of the San Diego Union-Tribune. 
He had lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
"He taught me a lot about pitching and how to be a professional baseball player," pitcher Randy Jones, Cannizzaro's former teammate, told Kenney. "He was hard-nosed, old-school. He fit me perfectly, to tell you the truth."
Jones added:
He wasn’t afraid to take charge. Like young (pitchers) could be stubborn, might say, ‘My curveball’s my best pitch.’ He’d say, ‘Well, you better learn how to use the fastball.’ Chris Cannizzaro would make you learn how to use it, and he’d stay on you. He’d push you. That’s old school, and you needed that. I always enjoyed that. He loved to compete and play.
Cannizzaro was a .235 career hitter in a 13-year career that included stints with the St. Louis Cardinals, New York Mets, Pittsburgh Pirates, Padres, Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Dodgers. He was an original member of the 1962 Mets and was "regarded as a hard-nosed defensive catcher with a strong arm," per Kenney.
In the 1969 All-Star Game, the National League needed a catcher to serve as Johnny Bench's backup. Cannizzaro—who was batting .245 with two homers and 23 RBI at the time—got the nod, although he didn't see the field.
"I was hoping I would get to play, but it was a thrill just to be on the team," Cannizzaro said at the time, per Kenney. "It was something I'll never forget."
After his playing career, Cannizzaro decided to coach. He was the Atlanta Braves bullpen coach from 1976-78. He also coached in the minor leagues and at the high school and college levels.  

If baseball is America's favorite pastime, the country's second favorite is making New Year's resolutions—and breaking them. Doing so might result in some extra pounds in the spring or more clutter in the garage, but typically, it's nothing that's going to impact our 2017 negatively.
The same can't be said for each of Major League Baseball's 30 teams.
Some of these resolutions revolve around adding (or subtracting) pieces to a team's roster. Others have to do with ensuring a team can keep its best player—or players—around for the foreseeable future. There are even a few that have nothing to do with the on-field action.
But one thing is for sure: Not following through on these resolutions will have consequences, some that resonate well past the upcoming season.

Shortly after signing Fernando Rodney to serve as Arizona's new closer, general manager Mike Hazen proclaimed he was happy with the team's bullpen as constructed.
"Very comfortable with the group we have right now," Hazen told FanRag Sports' Jack Magruder. "I still think we need to add depth to the bullpen. We’d love to get a little more left-handed overall, for the short and long term, and continue to build competition in various spots."
The D-backs selected Tyler Jones, who pitched to a 2.17 ERA while fanning more than 13 batters per nine innings in Double-A last season, from the New York Yankees in the Rule 5 draft. He could provide competition and depth, but the 27-year-old has never pitched above Double-A. He's far from a sure thing.
It's hard to take Hazen at his word when, of the relievers who remained with the club, Jake Barrett is the only one who has pitched to an ERA below 4.00 (3.49 ERA, 1.26 WHIP). The Diamondbacks have more work to do before they can feel like they've substantially reinforced their relief corps.
As luck would have it, there are still a number of quality relievers sitting on the free-agent market for the Arizona to target. Some, such as Greg Holland and Boone Logan, may prove to be too expensive for the team's liking. But others, including Santiago Casilla and Neftali Feliz, could be more affordable.

On paper, the Atlanta Braves look like a team that could surprise a whole bunch of people and find itself in contention in 2017. That doesn't mean much, of course: Many said the same thing about Arizona heading into 2016, and the Diamondbacks proceeded to lose 93 games.
But there's no disputing that general manager John Coppolella and president of baseball operations John Hart have done a terrific job setting up the Braves for a brighter future. They've bolstered the rotation with veterans Bartolo Colon, R.A. Dickey and Jaime Garcia.
The lineup—at least the top half, which will likely feature Ender Inciarte, Dansby Swanson, Freddie Freeman and Matt Kemp—could do some serious damage. And the bullpen, per FanGraphs, posted the sixth-highest WAR (4.1) among National League relief corps in 2016 without a true marquee reliever among the group.
When you take all of that into consideration, plus the fact that the Braves boast one of the game's best farm systems, the temptation to make a bold move is tempting. But Atlanta isn't one star attraction away from making a 2017 World Series run.
Patience and shrewd moves have served the club well thus far during its rebuilding process. Sticking to that plan is imperative for the Braves to continue building toward a brighter future, one that isn't too far off.

Zach Britton, Adam Jones, Manny Machado and Chris Tillman will all able to depart as free agents over the next few years, so there should be a sense of urgency around Oriole Park at Camden Yards. Baltimore's window of contention won't stay open for much longer.
That sense of urgency should revolve around plugging the team's gaping holes in right field and at the designated hitter spot. 
Re-signing American League home run champion Mark Trumbo seems like the most obvious solution to the latter problem. While the O's remain interested in a reunion, talks between the two sides stalled, and Baltimore pulled its offer off the table earlier this month, per MASNsports.com's Roch Kubatko.
More recently, Kubatko reported the O's have interest in a variety of right field options, including Michael Bourn, Rajai Davis, Angel Pagan and Michael Saunders. Any of those players would be an upgrade over Dariel Alvarez and Joey Rickard, the team's best internal options.
But, eventually, all those players are going to come off the market. Baltimore must ensure it's not picking out of the bargain bin right before spring training begins in February.

Boston's free-spending ways in the past have finally caught up with the Red Sox.
Xander Bogaerts is arbitration-eligible for the first time, and Mookie Betts is set to follow suit next winter. So now would be an ideal time for the Red Sox to work out long-term extensions for the pair. But as the Providence Journal's Brian MacPherson pointed out, the way MLB calculates luxury tax makes that difficult:
A hypothetical -- and probably conservative -- Bogearts extension might earn him salaries of $5 million, $10 million and $15 million for the next three seasons and then $25 million to buy out his first three potential free-agent seasons, accounting for inflation. That would be a total package of $105 million over six seasons, an average annual value of $17.5 million per season. He'd count for an extra $12.5 million against the team's luxury-tax calculation next season without actually earning more money. That would eat up almost all of the team's available room under the threshold by itself.
"I can assure you that we'd like to have them in the organization for many years," president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski told MacPherson, adding: "[Luxury-tax] ramifications are huge with those types of deals nowadays."
How do the Red Sox get around this? Shed salary when possible, creating more wiggle room between the team's calculated luxury tax and the threshold. 

Working out an extension with one of Scott Boras' clients is never an easy task, but it's possible, contrary to popular opinion. "I always tell teams when they talk long term, we're always happy to stay long term," Boras told CSN Chicago's Patrick Mooney in August.
Boras plans on discussing a long-term pact for Jake Arrieta when he meets with the Chicago Cubs next month to discuss his client's final year of arbitration eligibility, according to ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers.
Arrieta wasn't nearly as dominant in 2016 as he was during his march to the National League Cy Young Award in 2015, but he's gone a remarkable 50-19 with a 2.42 ERA, 0.97 WHIP and 593 strikeouts over 583 innings of work over the past three years.
While the Cubs might be hesitant to commit to a pitcher who will be in his mid-30s at the end of his next deal, Arrieta has thrown fewer than 1,000 innings over the course of his career. That lack of wear and tear bodes well for sustained success moving forward. 
Considering the lack of high-upside pitching prospects in Chicago's farm system who are close to contributing, extending Arrieta is in the team's best interest. 

Chicago received a slew of young, controllable talent in exchange for Adam Eaton and Chris Sale, but the White Sox can't afford to stop wheeling and dealing now. Not when the club still has a number of veteran pieces whose greatest value to the rebuilding franchise is in the return they'd bring back in a trade.
Staff ace Jose Quintana tops that list, and there's been no shortage of speculation regarding his next landing spot. Most recently, USA Today's Bob Nightengale reported the New York Yankees and Pittsburgh Pirates were his most aggressive suitors.
Closer David Robertson, third baseman Todd Frazier and left fielder Melky Cabrera are among the other players the White Sox could deal before Opening Day or at the non-waiver trade deadline.

Cincinnati has four players—Zack Cozart, Dilson Herrera, Jose Peraza and Brandon Phillips—to fill two spots in the middle of its infield. While it's good to have depth, the continued presence of the erstwhile veterans is inhibiting the continued development of the youngsters.
The Reds tried—and failed—to trade Cozart and Phillips at the winter meetings, setting up a situation where both Herrera and Peraza could start the year at Triple-A. That wasn't lost on newly minted general manager Dick Williams, who spoke with the Cincinnati Enquirer's Zach Buchanan in early December:
Two of the guys have options, so if you need to option them down and play, you could do that. The other two are in their last year. If they’re not going to be here beyond this year, they can take a more limited role. We still have to go through six or seven weeks of playing to see who’s playing well and see that everybody’s healthy. Then we’ll deal with having to divvy up playing time if everybody’s healthy and playing well.
Having Herrera and/or Peraza spend half of their time on Cincinnati's bench does little to help their continued development. They need regular playing time. If that's only available at Triple-A to start the season, so be it. 

Now that Edwin Encarnacion is in the fold, taking a cautious approach with Michael Brantley isn't quite as easy as it first appeared to be. No longer does Cleveland manager Terry Francona have the option to deploy Brantley as his designated hitter more often than not to protect his surgically repaired shoulder.
That's not to say signing Encarnacion was a mistake—far from it. Rather, it just makes it all the more important for Francona and the Tribe to treat the 29-year-old, who was emerging as a perennial MVP candidate before shoulder issues limited him to just 11 games in 2016, with kid gloves moving forward.
Maybe that means slowly easing him into action during spring training. Or perhaps he starts the season as part of a platoon in left field with Abraham Almonte, assuming he's healthy enough to be on the Opening Day roster.
Whatever path the Indians choose, the goal remains the same: Having a healthy, productive Brantley in the lineup down the stretch and in the playoffs, not necessarily in April and May.

Signing Mike Dunn to replace the pictured Boone Logan was a lateral move, but Colorado can still bolster a bullpen that pitched to an MLB-worst 5.13 ERA in 2016. Yes, Rockies relievers were even more inept than their counterparts in Cincinnati (though not by much).
The Rockies are interested in former Kansas City closer Greg Holland, with GM Jeff Bridich telling MLB.com's Thomas Harding earlier this week that the Rockies had "checked in (on the free agent), like most teams, I imagine."
Signing Holland, who was one of the best closers in baseball before undergoing Tommy John surgery in late 2015, makes sense for the Rockies, who currently figure to have Adam Ottavino handling things in the ninth inning. 
Santiago Casilla, Neftali Feliz, Jonathan Papelbon, Sergio Romo and Drew Storen are among the free-agent relievers with closing experience who remain available, while there is a slew of non-closing options that could be of interest to the Rockies as well. 

So far, the only cost-cutting move Detroit has been able to pull off was unloading Cameron Maybin's $9 million salary when the club traded him to the Los Angeles Angels in exchange for pitching prospect Victor Alcantara.
Doing so may have saved the Tigers some money, but it created a hole in center field that the club has thus far been unable to fill. While there's been speculation surrounding the rest of the team's high-priced veterans, including Ian Kinsler, it doesn't appear as if the Tigers will pull off another significant trade.
While getting under the luxury-tax threshold with a younger, cheaper roster is the team's ultimate goal, it's not going to happen in 2017. 
Taking on another burdensome long-term contract isn't in the cards, but if the opportunity to improve the roster materializes where they'd have to take on an expensive player in the final year of his deal, why not do it?
There's too much talent on the roster for the Tigers to tank, and they're closer to contending than they are to finishing in last place. Making one more run with the roster they've got is the only move that makes any sense at this point.

Dallas Keuchel, Collin McHugh, Mike Fiers and Lance McCullers Jr. comprise a formidable foursome in Houston's rotation. But four quality starters isn't nearly enough to get a team through the rigors of a 162-game regular season, especially when one, McCullers, figures to be working on an innings limit.
The Astros have been linked to a number of starting pitchers this offseason, most recently Kansas City's Danny Duffy and Yordano Ventura, per a report from MLB.com's Brian McTaggart earlier this month.
"We do have ongoing discussions that may materialize over the course of the next week or so," GM Jeff Luhnow told McTaggart at the close of the winter meetings. "I don't know how to handicap it, but we're certainly attempting to do everything we can to make sure we improve what is already a pretty good pitching staff."
While those discussions have yet to lead to a move, the Astros, who still boast one of baseball's better farm systems, have the prospects to trade for the pitcher they seek.

Trading All-Star closer Wade Davis to the Chicago Cubs for outfielder Jorge Soler was only the first in what figures to be a slew of moves made by the Kansas City Royals. Consider the list of players they stand to lose as free agents after the 2017 season:
There's just no way a midmarket team like the Royals can afford to keep all of those players, specifically Cain, Hosmer and Moustakas, all of whom figure to be in line for significant multiyear deals. There's going to be a drastic turnover of the roster, whether the Royals like it or not.
While the club is surely going to try to make one more run with the group that, along with Davis, won the team's first World Series crown in 30 years in 2015, the Royals could very easily find themselves on the contention fence—or out of contention—as the non-waiver trade deadline approaches.
Should that be the case, the Royals need to be prepared to move quickly and make moves geared toward bringing back as much MLB-ready, controllable talent as possible. Reloading, not rebuilding, should be the club's ultimate goal in 2017 if they fall short of a playoff run.

Here's a simple math problem for you: What do you get when you add five and two together? If you answered seven, you're wrong.
The answer is one, as in one playoff appearance in the five years that Mike Trout has been a full-time player for the Los Angeles Angels, during which time he's taken home two American League Most Valuable Player awards.
Half a decade is more than enough time for a team to figure out how to build a winner around the best player in baseball. The Angels, time and time again, have failed to do just that.
With all due respect to Matt Joyce and Ben Revere, two of the team's "big" additions this winter, they've got about as much chance of solving what ails the Angels as adding James Joyce and Paul Revere would: None.
If the Angels aren't able, due to finances or incompetence, to surround Trout with enough talent to become perennial contenders, they owe it to him and their fans to do something else: Trade him and start over.

While the Los Angeles Dodgers have one of the game's deepest farm systems, the Dodgers are firmly operating in World Series-or-bust territory. Years of failing to reach the Fall Classic have taken a toll on both the franchise and its fanbase, and the club's current window won't stay open forever.
In fact, we can put a two-year window on that window, as Clayton Kershaw can opt out of his contract after the 2018 season. While it's hard to envision him wearing a different uniform, it'd be ridiculous to think that he wouldn't leave L.A. for a fresh start elsewhere.
Adding some right-handed power to a lineup that leans heavily to the left would go a long way toward improving the team's chances of making a deep playoff run. Minnesota's Brian Dozier, whom the Dodgers have been linked to for weeks, makes the most sense, as he'd bring the right-handed pop and fill a hole at second base in the process.
But as FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reports, the two sides have reached a standstill in those trade talks. They've agreed on pitching prospect Jose De Leon, but can't settle on the other pieces that would accompany him to Minnesota.
Should those efforts continue to stall, the Dodgers could check in with Detroit about outfielder J.D. Martinez, who is entering the final year of his deal. Milwaukee's Ryan Braun could be another option.
One way or another, the Dodgers must add the right-handed pop that their lineup sorely needs if they've got any chance of finally reaching the lofty expectations that have surrounded the team for years.

The emotions and grief associated with Jose Fernandez's tragic death is something that isn't going away anytime soon in Miami. But as Marlins president Michael Hill told ESPN's Jerry Crasnick in November, the loss of the team's ace and leader can't be used as an excuse. 
"You never forget the human [side] or what happened, but you know you have a job to do. We're never going to replace Jose, but we have to try to move forward. The memory of him will always be with us and be a part of who we are. That's a bond we'll all have forever.''
Miami has done what it can to bolster its roster this winter, adding veterans Jeff Locke and Edinson Volquez to bolster the rotation, Junichi Tazawa and Brad Ziegler to strengthen the bullpen and catcher A.J. Ellis to help J.T. Realmuto guide the pitching staff.
With the bulk of the team's core returning—Dee Gordon, Marcell Ozuna, Giancarlo Stanton and Christian Yelich—the Marlins are poised to contend in 2017. They might not be ready to overtake the New York Mets or Washington Nationals in the division, but a wild-card berth looks to be well within their reach.
The pieces are in place. It's up to the players to rally around each other—to rally around the memory of their fallen teammate—and make 2017 a season to remember.

While Milwaukee finished the 2016 season more than 30 games behind the Chicago Cubs in the NL Central, it wasn't a completely lost season for the Brewers. Top prospect Orlando Arcia got his first taste of the big leagues, while fellow prospect Zach Davies cemented himself as a part of the team's rotation.
There's more help on the way, with outfield prospects Lewis Brinson and Brett Phillips, along with pitching prospect Josh Hader, getting closer to becoming permanent fixtures on the Brew Crew's 25-man roster.
Their eventual arrivals, along with the offseason additions of Travis Shaw and Eric Thames—while not game-changing talents—should help the Brewers improve upon their 73-89 record from a season ago and get closer to a return to relevancy.
Nobody's expecting Milwaukee to contend in 2017, but it's not crazy to think the club could come close to a .500 record.

Few teams have as valuable a trade chip as the Minnesota Twins do with second baseman Brian Dozier.
He offers big right-handed power at a premium position, is still in his prime and comes on one of the most team-friendly deals in baseball for an established player, as he's due just $15 million through the 2018 season.
Players with two full years of control, especially those on contracts like Dozier's, are far more valuable than those with one year, or a year and a half of control. 
As previously noted, discussions between the Twins and Dodgers have reached a standstill. But the pitching-starved franchise is assured of getting an MLB-ready, front-of-the-rotation arm in that proposed deal (Jose De Leon), and the Dodgers have enough prospects for the two sides to find a middle ground.
Minnesota isn't going to contend while Dozier remains under its control, and there's little chance the Twins would be willing to match the kinds of offers he'd likely receive as a free agent following the 2018 campaign.
The time to trade Dozier is now.

The New York Mets have five outfielders—Jay Bruce, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto, Curtis Granderson and Juan Lagares—to fill three spots. So, of course, the Mets went out and looked into potentially acquiring another outfielder, Pittsburgh's Andrew McCutchen, per a report from MLB.com's Anthony DiComo.
While those McCutchen talks haven't led anywhere, the club's outfield glut is something that needs to be addressed. It's an untenable situation, and something has to give.
Before Christmas, MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported that Toronto had interest in both Bruce and Granderson. With both of them entering the last year of their respective contracts, moving one makes the most sense for the Mets, who figure to be seeking relief help in return.
A deal may not materialize until spring training when injury robs another club of a corner outfielder it was counting on. But a deal must get done.

While his teammates certainly played a part, it was rookie catcher Gary Sanchez who essentially put the New York Yankees on his back last season and nearly carried the Bronx Bombers into the playoffs. Can you imagine the outcry in New York if Sanchez had done that wearing a different uniform?
The Bronx would most assuredly be burning.
With last season's trades of Carlos Beltran, Aroldis Chapman and Andrew Miller, along with this offseason's trade of Brian McCann, the Yankees have stockpiled one of the most impressive groups of prospects in the game. Arguably, the team's farm system has never been in better shape.
That's going to go a long way toward helping the club continue to supplement its roster as the contracts attached to high-priced veterans continue to expire and, ultimately, reach its goal of getting under the luxury-tax threshold.
So far this winter, GM Brian Cashman has resisted the urge to package those prospects, such as outfielder Clint Frazier and shortstop Gleyber Torres, in deals for premier starting pitchers, whether it be Chris Sale or Jose Quintana.
He needs to remain steadfast in that resolve. One day, dealing from its farm system for an established big league talent will make sense. But that day isn't on the upcoming calendar.

On the heels of a career-worst season that saw him go 5-11 with a 5.69 ERA and 1.50 WHIP over just 22 starts, Sonny Gray's trade value this offseason is nonexistent. Oakland could trade him, of course, but it'd be giving away one of the game's brightest young pitchers.
The A's aren't about to do that. But they're not about to contend in the AL West, either, and the quickest way to infuse the club with the offensive talent it needs is to capitalize on Gray's value when he's at his best.
Assuming the 2016 season was an aberration and Gray returns to his usual Cy Young form—injuries played a part in Gray's struggles—Oakland should be looking to make a deal once the dog days of summer arrive.
Contenders and noncontenders alike would love to add a controllable, front-of-the-rotation stud like Gray, and would be willing to pay a hefty price to secure his services.

Christmas arrived early in Philadelphia this year as the Phillies were able to sign center fielder Odubel Herrera to a five-year, $30.5 million extension that will keep the 25-year-old in uniform through the 2021 season.
Next up: 26-year-old second baseman Cesar Hernandez, who was a "hot name" in trade talks at the general manager meetings in November, according to CSN Philly's Jim Salisbury. Hernandez doesn't have Herrera's pop, but he's a contact hitter who knows how to get on base consistently and plays excellent defense at a premium position.
Doing so will not only keep Philadelphia's long-term costs down when it comes to retaining its own talent but continue to afford the club plenty of payroll flexibility, which it can use to make a huge splash in the free-agent bonanza of 2018-19.

Whether Andrew McCutchen reverts to his All-Star form or not, his time in Pittsburgh is coming to an end.
Austin Meadows is Pittsburgh's future in center field, and both Starling Marte and Gregory Polanco are signed to team-friendly deals that will keep them in black and gold for years to come. With two years of team control left, McCutchen isn't part of the long-term plan in the Steel City.
The Pirates don't have to trade McCutchen now. Like Oakland's Sonny Gray, he's coming off a career-worst season—one in which injuries played a part—and as a result, his value as a trade chip has been severely compromised.
That said, a team could come along with an offer the Pirates don't feel they can refuse.
Should that not happen, waiting until midseason isn't the worst thing in the world, either. Assuming he's back to his usual form, contenders would line up for a chance to add him to their lineups. That he'd be more than a short-term rental, with a reasonable $14.5 million team option for 2018, only adds to his value.

You know things have gotten out of control when MLB is forced to suspend a team's general manager.
Such was the case with San Diego's A.J. Preller, who was suspended for 30 days (and the team fined) after MLB determined that he knowingly withheld medical information about Drew Pomeranz, who he traded to the Boston Red Sox in exchange for pitching prospect Anderson Espinoza.
That suspension ultimately led to MLB standardizing the medical information that teams now must share when discussing a potential deal. Call it the "A.J. Preller Rule."
If that wasn't bad enough, another one of Preller's deals had to be partially walked back by the commissioner's office after Colin Rea, who had been part of a multiplayer deal with Miami, left his first start as a Marlin with an elbow injury that resulted in Tommy John surgery.
While Preller wasn't found to have been deceptive in that deal, having those two strikes against him makes it hard, if not impossible, for other teams to believe a word he says in trade negotiations moving forward.
It's on Preller and the Padres to repair their image, and reputation, among their contemporaries around the game.

Signing Mark Melancon to a four-year, $62 million deal was a good start in repairing a San Francisco bullpen that was among the least reliable in 2016. But it can't stand as the only addition the Giants make to their relief corps.
There's some leftover talent to be sure. George Kontos, Derek Law, Will Smith and Hunter Strickland are all competent relievers who are capable of shutting down the opposition. But more reinforcements are needed.
Like Arizona and the other teams we've touched on who are in need of bullpen help, free agents Greg Holland and Boone Logan are likely at or near the top of San Francisco's wish list. But there are plenty of capable arms still available, one of which has to find his way to the Bay Area before Opening Day.

King Felix still sits on his throne in the Emerald City, and both Hisashi Iwakuma and James Paxton are his loyal sidekicks standing alongside him in Seattle's rotation. As things stand now, Nate Karns and Ariel Miranda are slotted to fill things out.  
That's not nearly enough starting pitching.
General manager Jerry Dipoto prefers to trade for the players he needs rather than sign free agents, as he explained to MLB.com's Greg Johns recently. That helps to explain why he hasn't made a run at free-agent Jason Hammel, a Washington native who seems like a perfect fit as a No. 4 starter.
But aside from outfielders Kyle Lewis and Tyler O'Neill, the Mariners lack the prospects other teams covet. That makes trading for a starter difficult, given the high prices teams are asking in a market that's thin on quality arms.
Ultimately, Dipoto may have no choice but to dip his toes into the free-agent waters to get the arm his team sorely needs.

Of the 10 teams in baseball that committed at least 100 errors in 2016, only one, the Chicago Cubs, made it to the playoffs. The St. Louis Cardinals were one of the nine that were forced to watch the Cubs' march to the World Series at home, partly due to their inability to field the ball cleanly.
While advanced metrics were down on Dexter Fowler's center field defense last season, his addition should go a long way toward improving the Cardinals defense up the middle. But the players who remain from last year's club, such as shortstop Aledmys Diaz— whose 16 errors were the seventh-most by a shortstop—need to be focused on fielding the ball cleanly and making strong and accurate throws.
In a division with the Cubs and Pittsburgh Pirates and a wild-card field that continues to get more crowded, the Cardinals can ill-afford to be giving games away due to avoidable defensive miscues. A recommitment to the fundamentals can only help them get back into the postseason picture.

It's no secret that Tampa Bay is deep in starting pitching, with an assortment of arms that other clubs covet to varying degrees. Trading staff ace Chris Archer would bring back the biggest haul, but the likes of Alex Cobb, Jake Odorizzi, Erasmo Ramirez and Drew Smyly (pictured) all have varying degrees of trade value.
With a number of teams on the hunt for rotation reinforcements, dealing one of their arms—most likely Cobb, Ramirez or Smyly—would bring back a decent enough return to make it worth the fiscally constrained franchise's while to pull off a deal.

Just when it looked like Joey Gallo was finally going to get a chance to prove himself at the big league level with regular playing time as a designated hitter, along comes news from MLB.com's T.R. Sullivan that the Rangers are in talks with free agent Mike Napoli on a two-year deal.
Adding Napoli makes plenty of sense for Texas, but it throws another obstacle in Gallo's path. While the 23-year-old is far from a complete player, the only conceivable way he's going to improve his approach against big league pitching is to face it on a daily basis.
With Napoli in the fold, Gallo would be relegated to splitting time with Jurickson Profar at the DH spot or, more likely, spending much of the 2017 season back in Triple-A. If Texas isn't going to play Gallo, the time has come to trade him.
Teams still covet his otherworldly power, and another season at Triple-A isn't going to do anything to increase his value. The Rangers could perhaps add the pitching they need, either at the back end of the rotation and/or in the bullpen with a deal centered around the slugging corner infielder.

Kevin Pillar has center field covered in Toronto, while the combination of Ezequiel Carrera and Melvin Upton Jr. is more than capable of holding things down in either left field or right field. It's the other corner outfield spot for which the Blue Jays have an answer—yet there are plenty of possibilities.
Maybe it's a reunion with Jose Bautista, with whom the club is said to be in "active discussions" with, according to Morosi. Maybe it's a trade for New York's Jay Bruce or Curtis Granderson, which we touched upon earlier when looking at the Mets' resolution. Or maybe it's a player nobody's thought of yet.
Whomever the answer might be, the Blue Jays need to ensure that they fill that void. Otherwise, the club will have little to no chance of making a return trip to the postseason for the third consecutive season.

As the Washington Post's Chelsea Janes recently wrote, Washington's search for a reliable closer goes back nearly a decade. That the club missed out on not only Aroldis Chapman, Kenley Jansen and Mark Melancon but lesser options like Fernando Rodney and Brad Ziegler only amplifies the issue.
She goes on to note that the Nats may ultimately have no choice but to look in-house for their ninth-inning solution. But that doesn't necessarily have to be the case, as there are still a handful of free-agent relievers available who have closing experience.
Greg Holland sits atop that list, followed by Santiago Casilla, Neftali Feliz and Sergio Romo, among others. Signing one of those players wouldn't necessarily preclude the Nationals from going with an internal option, but it would give manager Dusty Baker another potential choice late in games.
    
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

Much of the Major League Baseball offseason picture has been painted, yet it still looks incomplete.
Though we have a better idea of how the remainder of the winter—and, subsequently, the 2017 season—may play out, there are still questions left unanswered.
Let’s try to tackle what remains to be asked about this offseason and what these questions mean for players and teams alike heading into the 2017 season.

For the most part, there’s little opportunity left for teams to greatly impact their respective rosters. That means it’s now an appropriate time to handicap the 2017 MLB season.
The Chicago Cubs should be the favorites to win the World Series again. But the randomness of baseball allows for upsets, and there are a handful of talented National League teams capable of beating the Cubs in a playoff series.
But who among them might be most equipped? Expect that to be the San Francisco Giants, whose signing of closer Mark Melancon may end up as the most impactful of this offseason.
Given that the Giants blew two saves in the 2016 National League Division Series—including one in that decisive Game 4—it seems only natural that they would be able to give the Cubs an even tougher challenge in 2017 now that they have one of the best closers in baseball over the last three seasons.
Teamed with the starting tandem of Madison Bumgarner and Johnny Cueto, the Giants now have a pitching staff capable of shutting down any team—and here’s the key part—at any time in the game.

In 2015, then-Toronto Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista smashed 40 homers and 114 RBI and led the American League with 110 walks. A year removed, now a free agent, interest in the right-handed power hitter is far less than was expected.
So much so that Yahoo Sports’ Jeff Passan reported that the 36-year-old outfielder/designated hitter is considering signing a one-year deal.
That’s a drastic switch from the public position he took in spring training, telling reporters that he would not offer the Blue Jays a hometown discount. And that has caused Toronto to re-engage in talks to re-sign Bautista, according to MLB Network’s Jon Morosi.
Bautista has several factors working against him that have damaged his value, most notably his age. Most teams are looking for more long-term answers in the middle of their lineups, and Bautista’s initial contract demands may have mirrored those of younger hitters with a similar profile.
Also, over the past two seasons, Bautista has been outlandish on the field. Though he was a model teammate in Toronto, antics such as his famed bat flip in the 2015 American League Division Series have rubbed certain teams the wrong way.
The Baltimore Orioles, for one, removed themselves from the Bautista sweepstakes because of how he is perceived, according to Eduardo A. Encina of the Baltimore Sun. Naturally, that lessened the market for him, thus causing a decrease in demand.

Chicago White Sox left-handed starter Jose Quintana is unquestionably on the trading block, as reported by USA Today's Bob Nightengale early in December. But as we head into 2017—about a month-and-a-half from pitchers and catchers reporting, believe it or not—it’s fair to question whether a deal will get done before spring training.
The White Sox are clearly in rebuilding mode after dealing outfielder Adam Eaton and starting pitcher Chis Sale. So moving Quintana for prospects would make sense from Chicago’s perspective.
Though it wouldn’t be surprising if trade negotiations spilled into February, a deal is still likely to get done this offseason.
With Sale off the market, Quintana is now the best starting pitcher available this offseason. So as any good seller would do—and the White Sox have been an adept one this offseason—Chicago is likely doing its best to widen the market for Quintana.
That means talking to any team interested in upgrading its starting rotation. By doing so, the White Sox can get teams to engage in a bidding war over the 2016 All-Star.
Furthermore, as the calendar inches closer to the 2017 season, teams get more desperate. And that desperation could net the White Sox an even bigger return for Quintana.

Following the NFL’s successful venture into London, MLB is considering skipping the pond to play games overseas, according to a report from the Boston Herald’s Michael Silverman.
The report suggests the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox could play a series there, which makes sense given the rivalry's rich history and each city’s colonial ties.
MLB is considering putting it on the schedule for the 2018 season. There are numerous factors to consider, though, namely logistics.
There would likely need to be scheduled days off around the series given that it takes a day to travel to London from either location. The time change is also a factor, and jet lag could put both teams at a disadvantage in series immediately following one played in London.
MLB also needs to give consideration to lost gate receipts and concessions for whichever club would lose home games.

Though baseball is coming off a successful postseason, MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred continues to champion changes in the game that would impact pace of play.
In an interview with John Harper of the New York Daily News, Manfred reiterated his desire to institute a 20-second pitch clock, something that has been implemented in various levels of minor league baseball.
But he went on to discuss more drastic options like limiting the use of relief pitchers, which he noted needs to be examined further in terms of how it would affect competition. He also talked about defensive shifts, which seem to limit the action in games.
Ultimately, Manfred is concerned with bettering the product, whether that be through taking measures to add action or reduce pace of play. Expect imminent changes on both fronts.
Manfred has only become more bullish on such changes and appears to be introducing more ways to affect pace of play.

Last winter, the Chicago Cubs signed Jason Heyward to an eight-year, $184 million contract. Less than 11 months later, they won their first World Series since the Teddy Roosevelt administration.
Here's the rub: They did it as much in spite of Heyward as because of him.
Heyward played 142 games in his first season on the North Side and won a Gold Glove for his work in right field. His exploits in the batter's box, however, defined abysmal.
He hit .230 and set career lows in on-base percentage (.306) and slugging percentage (.325). It's not as if his stat line was undone by one cold stretch, either.
Heyward spread his mediocrity across the season, hitting above .250 in only one calendar month (June, when he hit .257) and posting an especially anemic .213/.270/.308 slash line after the All-Star break.
He did little to redeem himself in the postseason, going 5-for-48 with 13 strikeouts and starting the first three games of the World Series on the bench.
It was a disastrous season for the former All-Star. After getting paid like a superstar, Heyward hit like a scrub.

At the same time, he's still just 27 years old. In 2015, he slashed .293/.359/.439 with 13 home runs and 23 stolen bases for the St. Louis Cardinals. On the strength of his bat and superlative glove work, Heyward ranked 13th in baseball with 14.6 WAR between 2013 and 2015, according to FanGraphs' measure. 
There's a reason the Cubs gave him all that cash.
Now, the question becomes: Can Heyward bounce back? And if he does, how much more dangerous can this already potent Chicago lineup become?
Even though Heyward swung a soggy chicken strip, the Cubs ranked third in MLB in runs scored (808) and OPS (.772). 
After leading both leagues in strikeouts in 2015 with 1,518, they cut that number to 1,339 in 2016 and fell to ninth. 
The bats went cold for a worrisome stretch in the National League Championship Series, but stars such as first baseman Anthony Rizzo found their stroke in time to exorcise the billy goat. 
The Cubs will return with nearly the same lineup intact. Rizzo joins National League MVP Kris Bryant, shortstop Addison Russell, second baseman Javier Baez and veteran Ben Zobrist to form an enviable core.
The Cubs can also look forward to a full season from Kyle Schwarber, who was lost to a knee injury in early April and didn't return to action until the Fall Classic, when he provided an inspirational boost at the plate.

Schwarber alone should move the offensive needle northward. He flashed big-time power in his 2015 rookie campaign, cracking 16 home runs in 69 games, and is entering his age-24 season.
That means the Cubs could probably endure another anemic year at the plate from Heyward. Even after trading Jorge Soler to the Kansas City Royals for closer Wade Davis, they have a crowded outfield depth chart that features Schwarber, Zobrist, Albert Almora Jr., Matt Szczur and newly signed Jon Jay. 
Heyward's serving as a $28 million-and-change part-time defensive specialist strains credulity, though. The Cubs want more out of him.
It's safe to assume Heyward wants more, too. He has an opt-out after 2018; a couple of strong seasons could equate to an even bigger payday. 
Cubs mental skills coordinator Darnell Howard showcased Heyward's new, more upright swing in an Instagram post. Here's a look at it next to Heyward's swing from last season, via Corey Freedman:
@WhatTheMicah @DEvanAltman best I can do rn. Hard to find a longer side angle from 2016 showing full swing/load. s://t.co/NbNK4E4WzJ
Will it yield better results? We won't know until Heyward deploys it against big league pitching, but at least it shows he's trying something.
It's worth noting that Heyward has done this disappearing act before and rebounded. In 2011, after an All-Star rookie year, he hit just .227. The following season, he hiked his average to .269 and set career highs in home runs (27) and RBI (82).
The projection systems are bullish. Steamer foretells a .269/.348/.415 line with 14 home runs. The Cubs would take that with a smile.
Speaking of smiles, Heyward apparently kept his chin up through his 2016 struggles and famously delivered a rain-delay pep talk in Game 7 of the World Series. 
After the season, he earned optimistic praise from Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein, per Patrick Mooney of CSN Chicago:
He's got a great attitude about everything. It's just hard to make the kind of adjustments for some players in-season, because things are going so fast and you're trying to compete.
But the offseason is a great opportunity to take a deep breath, slow things down, look at video, work with your coaches, really think about the swing. Think about the bat path and make some adjustments and develop some muscle memory, work on your feel and then take it into games.
We believe in Jason Heyward and his ability to tackle things head-on and make the necessary adjustments. And I think you're going to see a much different offensive player next year.
None of this means anything until Heyward proves it between the lines. If you're the glass-half-full type, however, there are reasons to swill the Kool-Aid.
Imagine a reinvigorated Heyward and healthy Schwarber mixed with a Cubs lineup that lost leadoff man Dexter Fowler but retained everyone else of significance. Factor in the possibility that young hitters such as Baez and Russell could make a leap forward.
Heck, even Bryant, who turns 25 in January, may be climbing toward his ceiling.
There's a scenario where this offense goes from very good to scary great. More hitting from Heyward would be a key piece of that puzzle.
Chicago already won a title without much from him. Now, he has a chance to contribute to trophy No. 2.
   
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs and MLB.com unless otherwise noted.

Catcher Matt Wieters remains among the top players available in free agency, but his market appears to be heating up, as multiple teams are showing interest.
Continue for updates.
Nationals the Favorite to Land Wieters
Tuesday, Feb. 21
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, citing sources, reported Tuesday morning that the Washington Nationals were close to landing a deal with Wieters. The New York Post's Joel Sherman reported the same and added that the contract is expected to be for two years with an option.
Heyman first reported Dec. 29 that the Nationals were among Wieters' top suitors.
Brewers Reportedly Interested in Wieters
Friday, Jan. 27 
Tommy Stokke of FanRag Sports reported the Milwaukee Brewers have taken an active interest in signing Wieters.
Braves Among Teams Vying for Wieters
Wednesday, Jan. 11
Heyman of FanRag Sports reported Dec. 29 that the Braves were interested in Wieters.
According to Heyman, Atlanta has long stood out as a landing spot for Wieters, but the Nats have jumped in to replace some of the production lost with the departures of catcher Wilson Ramos and infielder Danny Espinosa.
Heyman also named the Colorado Rockies, Arizona Diamondbacks and New York Mets as possible fits, although they may all be content with their current catching situations. On Wednesday, Heyman reported that the Los Angeles Angels are also considering Wieters.
Wieters a Reliable Veteran Option at Catcher
Wieters is coming off a 2016 season that saw him hit .243 with 17 home runs and 66 RBI for the Baltimore Orioles. He was also named to his fourth All-Star team in eight MLB seasons.
The 30-year-old veteran boasts considerable power for the position, posting three seasons of 20 or more home runs, and is also capable defensively with two Gold Gloves to his credit.
Staying healthy has been Wieters' biggest issue in recent years, as he appeared in just 101 games combined in the 2014 and 2015 seasons.
Wieters bounced back to play in 124 contests last season and is easily the best backstop still available.
It is understandable that teams would be cautious when it comes to offering Wieters a big contract in both money and length, considering his durability issues, but he is a solid, reliable presence behind the plate when healthy.
Strong all-around catchers are at a premium in Major League Baseball, and both the Braves and Nationals would receive a significant boost by signing him.
     
Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter.

Fact—New Year's Eve is fast approaching. Fiction—all of MLB's big-name free agents who remain unsigned will find new homes before the ball drops.
As you'd expect, having so many notable players still in search of employment has led to increased activity in the rumor mill. Now that Edwin Encarnacion has come off the board, some of those players who were seemingly in holding patterns are finally seeing significant interest from multiple suitors.
Free agents aren't the only ones receiving attention, though, as the trade market remains active with plenty of speculation surrounding a pair of the American League Central's best.
Will Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier or Chicago White Sox pitcher Jose Quintana be traded? Will Matt Wieters wind up spending the 2017 season close to where he played his college ball? Where will the "Party at Napoli's" break out next?
We'll hit on all that and more in this week's edition of "Fact or Fiction."

The majority of B/R's MLB team (myself included) believed that free-agent catcher Matt Wieters would end up with the Atlanta Braves, and recent comments from Braves general manager John Coppolella have done nothing to make that prediction seem misguided.
"Matt (Wieters) is a talented player," Coppolella said recently on SiriusXM's MLB Network Radio. "It would come down to price and years. We're happy with what we have now." What the Braves have now—Tyler Flowers and Anthony Recker—is a pair of serviceable backups.
While he's not the superstar many believed he'd become and, per Baseball Prospectus, has posted four consecutive seasons of below-average pitch framing, Wieters would represent a significant upgrade over that duo.
That he's a local product, having played his college ball at Georgia Tech, only adds to his appeal for the Braves, who are set to move into their new home, SunTrust Park, in 2017.

With 39 home runs, 135 RBI and an .802 OPS, Justin Bour has quietly put up some solid numbers over parts of three seasons with the Miami Marlins. But the bulk of that production has come exclusively against right-handed pitching, with the 28-year-old posting a measly .564 OPS against left-handers.
So while Michael Hill, Miami's president of baseball operations, was likely telling the truth when he told the Sun Sentinel's Tim Healey that finding a right-handed platoon partner for Bour was "not a priority," the Marlins would be foolish not to do just that.
It's not as if there aren't any right-handed corner infielders available. Former Marlin Chris Johnson, Trevor Plouffe and the reigning National League home run champion, Chris Carter, all remain unsigned and aren't likely to command more than one-year commitments.
One option who would likely command a multiyear deal is Mike Napoli. And while the team has spoken to the veteran free agent, Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald reported that Miami "isn't pursuing him" at the moment. We'll hit on Napoli a bit more later. 
Regardless of whom the right-handed first baseman is, adding one makes more sense for the Marlins than playing catcher J.T. Realmuto at first base against southpaws, something Hill told Healey is a possibility heading into the 2017 season.

Twice over the course of his 11-year career, Mike Napoli has found himself with the Texas Rangers—not by choice, but by trade. First in 2011, when the Toronto Blue Jays dealt him to the Rangers for reliever Frank Francisco; then again in 2015, when the Boston Red Sox shipped him to Texas in exchange for cash or a player to be named later.
A free agent whose previous employer, the Cleveland Indians, replaced him with slugger Edwin Encarnacion, Napoli is looking for a new home. Rejoining the Rangers, a move that would be his choice for the first time in his career, appears to be a real possibility.
MLB.com's T.R. Sullivan reported that Napoli and the Rangers have discussed a potential two-year deal, with sources telling him both sides are "highly motivated to get a deal done." That said, Texas isn't alone in its pursuit, with FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reporting a "mystery team" (the Oakland Athletics, perhaps) remains in the mix.
Ultimately, Napoli's decision will be to return to a contending team with which he's familiar. With Prince Fielder (retired) and Mitch Moreland (Boston) gone, Napoli would get the bulk of the playing time at first base in Texas, something he may not be able to find elsewhere.

It's the rumor that won't stop: The Chicago White Sox's Jose Quintana is heading to the New York Yankees. But Tuesday saw conflicting reports emerge on just how much truth there is to that speculation.
USA Today's Bob Nightengale tweeted that the Yankees and Pittsburgh Pirates are the "most aggressive teams" in pursuit of the 27-year-old southpaw, adding that the clubs had discussed a three-way deal between them.
Shortly after that, Joel Sherman of the New York Post cited multiple sources who insisted the Yankees are not working on a deal for Quintana or David Robertson, the White Sox's current (and New York's former) closer.
The truth lies somewhere between the two reports. It makes sense that the Yankees would check in on Quintana and Robertson. It costs the team nothing to have that discussion. But the White Sox are going to insist on either shortstop Gleyber Torres or outfielder Clint Frazier in any potential deal.
That's a deal-breaker for the Yankees, who have steadfastly refused to trade their best young talent thus far. While Quintana and Robertson would improve the club's pitching staff, they wouldn't catapult the Yankees to the level of Boston or Cleveland, the favorites to represent the American League in the World Series.
Quintana and Robertson might get traded before Opening Day, but neither one will be heading to the Bronx as anything but a visiting player.

More conflicting reports emerged over the past few days in regard to the Minnesota Twins' slugging second baseman, Brian Dozier.
Due only $15 million through 2018, the 29-year-old is a financial bargain, though the cost in prospects it'll take to pry him loose may be seen as prohibitive to some.
That includes the Los Angeles Dodgers, who are willing to trade prized pitching prospect Jose De Leon as part of a deal but, according to Heyman, refuse to include first baseman and outfielder Cody Bellinger or pitchers Yadier Alvarez and Walker Buehler.
Are the Dodgers being "stingy" with their prospects, as Heyman said some have alluded to? Absolutely. But there's no other suitor for Dozier's services at the moment. ESPN.com's Mark Saxon shot down the notion of the St. Louis Cardinals being involved; the Washington Post's Chelsea Janes did the same for the Washington Nationals.
The Twins don't have to trade Dozier, but his value is never going to be higher than it currently is. Players with two years of control are more valuable than those with just one year—or one-and-a-half years, were they to trade him at next season's non-waiver trade deadline.
Eventually, Minnesota will come to its senses, back off its demands for one of those three prospects to be included along with De Leon and reach an agreement with the Dodgers, who can supply the Twins with a greater quantity of quality prospects than most other teams.
                  
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

The first year Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens appeared on the Hall of Fame ballot, I voted "not now."
OK, technically I just didn't vote for them, but as I explained then in a column for CBSSports.com, it was more of a "not now" vote than a "not ever" vote.
"They may never get in," I wrote, "but my guess is eventually they will."
Eventually is coming.
It likely won't happen this year based on early voting numbers tracked so carefully by Ryan Thibodaux. But Bonds' and Clemens' numbers went up last year after the Hall of Fame made changes in the electorate, and Thibodaux's tracking numbers suggest they'll rise even more significantly this time around.
Some votes switched after a Hall of Fame committee decided to enshrine Bud Selig, the commissioner who oversaw baseball's steroid era. Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports talked to some of those voters and explained why they switched.
The Selig decision didn't affect my vote. I've voted for Bonds and Clemens since 2014 for reasons I explained then on Facebook.
Three years later, I feel the same way. And just as I did in 2014, I used the maximum 10 spots on this year's ballot.
Here they are in alphabetical order (as they're listed on the ballot), with the reasons why each one belongs.

Jeff Bagwell fell 15 votes short of getting in last year, and one of the votes he missed was mine. I wrote then that I would give Bagwell and three other near-misses another look 12 months later, and I have.
What I see now is a player who compares well with others I've voted for. Bagwell's career OPS+ of 149, as calculated by Baseball-Reference.com, is higher than that of Mike Piazza's (142), who got in (with my vote) last July. As the persistent @Bags4HoF regularly reminds me on Twitter, Bagwell had a 10-year period in which he ranked among the league leaders in many offensive categories.
He's still a borderline case, but I'm comfortable now putting him on the right side of the border.

Asked last summer about his legacy, Bonds had this to say: "I entertained you guys, so why are you asking me? If you feel I did something that entertained you to the point you were happy, you should write that. If you feel I didn't, you should write that."
If only it were that simple.
Bonds did entertain us. He amazed us. But he also disgusted us, with the bloated body, bloated stats and bluster emblematic of the steroid era.
Some voters may say he had Hall of Fame numbers before he began using, but I don't care about that. I'd feel comfortable excluding him for cheating, if only we had enough evidence to separate those who cheated from those who didn't.
Everyone in baseball enabled the cheaters, not just Selig, but also every player whose union helped stand in the way of testing. In a way, they're all guilty.
Was Bonds guiltier than others? Probably so, but he was also better on the field than others. He might be the living symbol of the steroid era, but he was also the era's best player.
Unless we're going to eliminate an entire era from Hall of Fame consideration, the era's best player belongs in there.
Yes, Barry, I was happy watching you. No, Barry, I'm not entirely happy voting for you.
But once again, I have.

Bonds and Clemens are linked in much of the Hall of Fame discussion, but their cases aren't identical. Clemens has received a handful more votes than Bonds, perhaps because he's better liked or a touch less demonized.
My buddy Jon Heyman wrote last year on CBSSports.com why he was willing to vote for Bonds but not Clemens. Heyman said he believes the story that Bonds began juicing in response to the attention Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa received in 1998 but doesn't believe anything Clemens has said.
I see them as more similar, the best hitter and the best pitcher of their generation, both tainted by almost-certain drug use. I vote for Clemens for the same reason I vote for Bonds; his accomplishments demand it, and I'm not willing to punish him for his drug transgressions while voting for others who likely cheated too.
If you go strictly by what he did on the field, Clemens is the easiest of choices. He was a seven-time Cy Young winner who also won an American League MVP. From 1986-98, he led the majors in wins (217) and was second to Greg Maddux in ERA (2.87). His 2,953 strikeouts in that 13-year span were 600 more than anyone else had.
I could go on, but why bother? No one is keeping Clemens out of the Hall of Fame with an argument that he didn't do enough. The only argument against him is off the field and whether he did too much.
As with Bonds, I hold my nose and accept it.

Over a decade, from 1998-2007, Vladimir Guerrero was one of the most dangerous hitters in the game. He had a high batting average (.327 over those 10 years, .318 over his full career). He hit home runs (449 in his career) and drove in runs (1,496). He even had a season with 40 stolen bases.
As a right fielder, he had one of the best arms in baseball. At the plate, he was one of the best bad-ball hitters of all time. He was dangerous because he could do damage, but also because he did it even when pitchers were trying to work around him.
He could hit anything, and perhaps because of that, he swung at everything. If there's any negative on Guerrero's credentials, it's that he rarely walked. He led the league in intentional walks five times, but in 2006, he had as many intentional walks (25) as unintentional walks.
The intentional walks boost his case by showing what opposing managers thought of him. The lack of unintentional walks means Guerrero does a little worse with modern analytics.
Paul Swydan of FanGraphs wrote a well-argued column saying that while he considers Guerrero deserving, he believes Larry Walker is even more so. Walker does better with analytics, thanks in part to his career .400 on-base percentage and also to ranking better on defensive metrics.
I've seriously considered a Walker vote each of the last two years but haven't yet voted for him. I did vote for Guerrero, believing him to be the more dominant player.

In this winter, where closers have been richly rewarded, it feels right to vote for the only guy other than Mariano Rivera with 600 career saves. In fact, Trevor Hoffman and Rivera are the only two closers with even 500 career saves. Since the active leader, Francisco Rodriguez, has just 430 and turns 35 in January, nobody's catching Hoffman and Rivera anytime soon.
Save totals are obviously controlled in part by circumstances, but Hoffman was impressively consistent and was dominant in other categories too.
My buddy Jayson Stark of ESPN.com makes a compelling argument that Billy Wagner is Hoffman's equal in many of those other categories, and Stark voted for both Hoffman and Wagner last year. I voted for Hoffman and not Wagner last year and have done the same this year. Saves aren't everything, but they are what we celebrate for relievers. Hoffman had a lot more of them and thus had a lot more fame. (It is the Hall of Fame, after all.)
Besides, a closer's primary job is to preserve the lead, and Hoffman's career save percentage of 88.8 ranks fourth (behind Craig Kimbrel, Joe Nathan and Rivera) among the 48 pitchers with 200 or more saves. Wagner is 10th, at 85.9 percent.
Hoffman got 67.3 percent of the vote last year, his first on the ballot. That suggests he'll get in eventually, and it may even happen this year.
In a year when Major League Baseball named its National League Reliever of the Year award after Hoffman (with the American League award named after Rivera), Hoffman belongs as much as ever.

Every year Edgar Martinez has appeared on the ballot, I've stared at his stats, looking for the kind of dominance that would make up for not playing defense.
I looked at the stats again this year, but I also looked back at who Martinez was. I covered the American League during almost his entire career, and without fail, opponents considered him one of the best hitters in the game.
He hit for average. He had extra-base power. He drove in runs. He had an OPS of .993 or better in six consecutive seasons.
I wish he'd led the league more times in more categories. I wish he'd finished higher in MVP voting. I wish he hadn't torn his hamstring so badly in 1993, forcing him into the full-time designated hitter role.
But we have to judge Martinez on who he was and what he did. I've come around to the idea that what he was and what he did are good enough to get my vote.

Back when I was making the case for Jack Morris, I wrote that Hall of Fame voters had become too tough on starting pitchers.
"Only one of the last 21 players elected to the Hall was a starting pitcher—Bert Blyleven—and he retired 20 years ago," I said in that December 2012 column.
With Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz, Pedro Martinez and Randy Johnson, the balance has been restored. But something else I wrote in that Morris column still holds. We still haven't elected a starting pitcher who pitched his entire career in the American League in the designated hitter era.
Mike Mussina not only did that, but he spent his entire career in the AL East at a time when the division had the toughest lineups in the game.
Mussina doesn't have a slam-dunk case. He never won a Cy Young (he finished second to Martinez in 1999). He won 20 games just once (although he won 18 or more five other times). His 3.68 ERA would be the highest of any Hall of Fame pitcher since World War II.
But let's put that ERA in context of the league and the ballparks Mussina pitched in. Baseball-Reference.com's ERA+ attempts to do that, and Mussina's 123 matches the career ERA+ of Hall of Famer Juan Marichal. It's better than the career ERA+ of Hall of Famers Glavine (118), Bob Feller (122) and Warren Spahn (119), among others.
I never did succeed in getting Morris into the Hall of Fame. He peaked at 67.7 percent of the vote in 2013.
Mussina jumped to 43 percent last year, his third year on the ballot. He should gain votes this year. I know of at least one vote he has added.
Mine.

Just as with American League starting pitchers, leadoff hitters have been underrepresented in Hall of Fame voting. It's as if we've been comparing everyone to Rickey Henderson while being unwilling to vote for anyone who doesn't completely match up.
Tim Raines wasn't Henderson, but he was very, very good over a career that spanned 23 seasons. Voters seem to have picked up on this; Raines got only 22.6 percent of the vote in his second year on the ballot but rose to 69.8 percent in 2016, his ninth year.
Raines is down to his last chance, but early-voting totals compiled by Ryan Thibodaux suggest he will get in. With just over 30 percent of the ballots already accounted for, Thibodaux has Raines at 90.1 percent.
Raines scored 1,571 runs in his career (54th all time) and stole 808 bases (fifth). He made the All-Star team seven straight years.
Five players who played for the Montreal Expos have already made it to Cooperstown, New York (Gary Carter, Andre Dawson, Tony Perez, Pedro Martinez and Randy Johnson). This year's ballot includes two more who should make it—Guerrero (in his first year of eligibility) and Raines (in his last).

He was the best catcher of his era, perhaps the best of any era.
He could hit, he could throw, and he even got better at handling pitchers and calling games (an early criticism) later in his 21-year career. He made the All-Star team 14 times and won 13 Gold Gloves, the most of any catcher and as many as Ozzie Smith won at shortstop.
There's simply no way you can look at Pudge Rodriguez's career and say he wasn't a Hall of Famer.
Well, there is one way. Jose Canseco, in his 2005 book Juiced, alleged he personally injected Rodriguez with steroids when the two were teammates with the Texas Rangers. If you're a PED hardliner, unwilling to vote for any player who has been accused, you can justify lumping Pudge in with the rest of the cheaters.
I'm not willing to make that judgment. When I saw Pudge Rodriguez play, I always felt I was watching a Hall of Famer. When I look at his stats and his accomplishments, I see a Hall of Famer.
He easily gets my vote.

Curt Schilling the person would not get my vote.
Curt Schilling the pitcher deserves it.
He's loud. He's offensive. He called a T-shirt advocating the lynching of journalists "awesome," an interesting move for someone who presumably would like journalists to vote him into the Hall of Fame.
Schilling said in a radio interview with WPRO (via Alex Reimer of Forbes) he wants to run for Senate from Massachusetts. We can only guess what he'll advocate for the voters of that state.
But the Hall of Fame voting rules don't provide for a test of intelligence or common sense. They do use the word "character," which some of my fellow voters have used to deny Schilling their vote. According to Ryan Thibodaux's vote tracker, Schilling has lost an amazing 18 votes from those who supported him a year ago.
He kept mine because I was voting for the Hall of Fame, not for president or the Senate.
He was one of the dominant pitchers of his era. His context-inclusive ERA+, as calculated by Baseball-Reference.com, was the same as Bob Gibson's and Tom Seaver's and higher than Jim Palmer's or Juan Marichal's.
And in an era where reputations are made in a three-tiered postseason, Schilling was 11-2 with a 2.23 ERA in 19 postseason starts and even better (4-1, 2.06) in the World Series.
He never won a Cy Young (but finished second three times) and won just 216 games. But Pedro Martinez won 219 and got 91.1 percent of the vote in his first year on the ballot.
Schilling won't come close to that. He shouldn't.
But Curt Schilling the pitcher earned his way to Cooperstown.
Curt Schilling the person could still keep himself out of it.

The Hall of Fame limits us to 10 votes. Some would like to see that changed. I don't mind it.
It's not fair, because nothing says there can't be more than 10 deserving players on the ballot at one time. But the 10-vote limit sharpens your thinking because it requires you to carefully choose.
Most years, I don't get all the way to 10. This year, I did.
I might have even gotten to 11 had it been allowed because Larry Walker has been among the final players I considered each year he has been on the ballot. So far, he's fallen just short.
I looked seriously at others, including Jeff Kent, Fred McGriff, Manny Ramirez, Gary Sheffield, Lee Smith and Sammy Sosa.
For most of those, I felt their career accomplishments fell just behind the 10 I voted for. For Ramirez, I felt his suspension for using performance-enhancing drugs took him out of serious consideration. Unlike others, such as Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, he got caught after baseball began to take steroid cheating seriously. To me, that's a much worse offense.
Sosa didn't get caught, at least not for drug use. But his only real Hall of Fame qualifications are a seven-year power span that was almost certainly steroid-driven. I feel comfortable leaving him off while still voting for Bonds, Clemens and the rest.

So, here it is. We've come to it at last. The point in the MLB offseason where the baseball news cycle is emptier than our holiday cookie jars.
This winter more than most, it was bound to come sooner rather than later. Trades are all well and good, but they're the side dishes of the hot-stove season. The main course is free agency, and it was never a secret that it wouldn't have much to offer this winter.
To wit, the best pitcher was a 36-year-old who was recently seen pitching in independent ball. Arguably the best position player was a 31-year-old outfielder who's had only two great seasons. "This year's free-agent class might be the worst I've ever seen," wrote ESPN.com's Keith Law. I can't refute that.
I will say this, though: In the parlance of our times, the 2016-17 free-agent class could have been yuuuuuuuuuuuuge.
Officially, it takes six major league seasons to qualify for free agency. Realistically, it's more like six and change. Subtract six and change from 2016, and you're looking at players who broke into the majors in 2010.
As Matt Eddy wrote in introducing Baseball America's all-rookie team, 2010 was "a banner class" for rookies. Among those who made the team were San Francisco Giants catcher Buster Posey and starting pitcher Madison Bumgarner, as well as Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton. 
Already a pretty good list! And it's just the tip of the proverbial iceberg.

Bumgarner wasn't the only future ace who first broke through in 2010. That was also the year Chris Sale debuted with the Chicago White Sox, and when Stephen Strasburg made his (quite memorable) debut with the Washington Nationals.
Those are three legit No. 1s who would have been ticketed for free agency this winter. That beats the number actually available, which was zero. 

Meanwhile, Posey and Stanton weren't the only star hitters to establish themselves in 2010. Freddie Freeman joined the Atlanta Braves late in the year. Jonathan Lucroy joined the Milwaukee Brewers. Carlos Santana joined the Cleveland Indians. Although he wouldn't find his footing until 2012, 2010 was also the year the Indians gave Michael Brantley his first big taste of the majors.
Santana would have been yet another slugger for a free-agent pile that also included Edwin Encarnacion, Jose Bautista and Mark Trumbo. Lucroy would have been a better catching option than Wilson Ramos or Matt Wieters. Even after his injury-shortened 2016, Brantley would have been the kind of consistent and athletic hitter this winter's market sorely lacked. 
As for Posey, Stanton and Freeman, they're true superstars when healthy. That's debatable with Yoenis Cespedes and a discussion that can't really be had about Justin Turner, Encarnacion and others.
And while nobody began the winter lamenting the lack of free-agent closers—Aroldis Chapman, Kenley Jansen and Mark Melancon had that market covered—there could have been yet another elite relief ace for the taking. Craig Kimbrel made his Braves debut even before Freeman did.
This isn't even counting the more established veterans who were ticketed to become free agents after 2016 until, all of a sudden, they weren't. That list is headlined by three third basemen: Adrian Beltre, Evan Longoria and Martin Prado.
Add it all up, and this winter could have had enough free-agent talent to match even last winter's class. That's saying something, as David Price, Zack Greinke, Jason Heyward, Justin Upton, Chris Davis, Johnny Cueto and others made that arguably the best free-agent class in history.
The historic quality of this winter's free-agent class is a discussion we're not having, of course, because of extensions.

It's easiest to remember Strasburg's contract extension. Not just because it's a seven-year, $175 million whopper that he signed in May with free agency mere months away, but also because of the reaction to it. Everyone saw it as a killing blow for an already thin free-agent class.
But that's not what killed it. This was a case of death by a thousand extensions, a result of MLB's rapidly changing landscape.
According to Maury Brown of Forbes, the nearly $10 billion MLB pulled in this year is just the latest stop in a trend that's been going sharply upward since the early 2000s. Much of the new money is coming from new national television deals that were signed in 2012 and from local TV deals that, as FanGraphs' Craig Edwards highlighted, have become en vogue in the 2010s.
In the meantime, there's been a change in which players deserve this money. Neil Paine of FiveThirtyEight wrote in 2014 about how MLB's star power has shifted sharply toward younger players. Also in 2014, Dave Cameron of FanGraphs noted that teams have responded by allocating less payroll space to players in their 30s and more to players in their 20s.
It was between 2010 and 2014 that the status quo really took hold. Per MLB Trade Rumors, between 1996 and 2009, teams handed out a total of 124 contract extensions of at least four guaranteed years. Between 2010 and 2014, they doled out 100 such extensions.
The great players who arrived in and around 2010 got caught up in that. And while Stanton's record 13-year, $325 million contract stands out, others fell prey to the essential reality of why teams became willing to hand out long-term extensions: They're good investments that are also relatively cheap.
Nowadays, the jig may be up.
Young stars have continued to stream into the majors, but only 18 extensions of four or more years have been signed since 2015. The young stars may be getting the sense that trading free-agent years for early financial security isn't necessarily a fair trade.
If such a feeling is indeed out there, you can't help but wonder how much more pronounced it would be if many (or all) of the players named above had reached free agency this winter. 
While the contracts they signed established a trend of teams locking up their own talent, they weren't needed to set the going rate for superstar talents. The max was set at roughly $25 million per year for a while, and nobody made it across the $200 million plateau without at least a nine-year contract.

But then, in 2014, Clayton Kershaw and Miguel Cabrera bumped the bar up to $30 million per year with extensions. They also needed just seven and eight years, respectively, to clear space in their bank accounts for over $200 million. 
That paved the way for Max Scherzer to follow suit in free agency after 2014 and for Price and Greinke to do the same last winter. Thus, the way was paved for even more lavish spending this winter.
Jeff Todd of MLB Trade Rumors wrote in July that "there isn't any question whatsoever" Bumgarner would have found over $200 million in free agency. The same likely would have been true for Sale, and possibly Strasburg as well. Of the position players, Posey and Freeman would also have been in line to pull in over $200 million. Despite his recent injury woes, Stanton might also have had a shot.
Elsewhere, Kimbrel might have made like Chapman and Jansen and landed a contract worth north of $80 million. Brantley, Santana and Lucroy would have been in for nice paydays as well. And of the veterans who could have hit the market, Longoria might have had a chance at earning over $100 million.
This offseason thus could have been a continuation of last offseason, which shattered previous records with nearly $2.5 billion spent on free agents (h/t Todd), and perhaps a necessary stepping stone to even more earth-shattering contracts in the insanely loaded free-agent class of 2018-19.
Of course, we'll never know. But in lieu of real things to think about, thinking about what might have been will have to do.
    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. 


As always, it's been a busy offseason around Major League Baseball, with teams already crossing off a number of items on their winter shopping lists.
Earlier this offseason, a piece entitled "All 30 MLB Teams' Blueprint to an 'A' Grade in the 2016-17 Offseason" was written by yours truly as a to-do list of sorts for each team to follow.
As we get set to flip the calendar over to 2017, now seems like the perfect time to look back on that piece and provide an updated look at what each club has accomplished and still needs to accomplish before the start of spring training.
Ahead you'll see the same to-do list we offered up for each team back on Nov. 10, with certain items crossed out based on what additions have already been made and a full breakdown of each item.
Also included are a few new shopping-list items for some teams, which are noted with a "New Addition" mention.

Updated To-Do List
Add a closer
Fernando Rodney was signed to a one-year, $2.75 million deal that includes up to $4 million worth of incentives to serve as the team's closer, according to Jack Magruder of FanRag Sports.
The 39-year-old has 261 career saves and was an All-Star last season, though he was considerably less effective following a midseason trade to the Miami Marlins, so this was a cost-conscious roll of the dice in a sky-high market for relief arms.
 
Add multiple relievers
With Brad Ziegler, Daniel Hudson and Tyler Clippard all gone from last year's bullpen, the Diamondbacks could still use a few more proven arms to join Rodney, Randall Delgado and Jake Barrett.
Rule 5 pick Tyler Jones should have a good chance of winning a roster spot, and Arizona Fall League standout Jared Miller will get a long look as well, but expect at least a couple non-roster invitees to be added to the mix.
 
Extend Jean Segura
Segura was shipped to the Seattle Mariners in the first major trade of the offseason, with the D-Backs picking up right-hander Taijuan Walker and shortstop Ketel Marte in return.
 
Add a catcher (*New Addition*)
The somewhat surprising decision to non-tender Welington Castillo leaves the catcher position as a question mark.
Veteran Jeff Mathis was signed to fill the backup role and the versatile Chris Herrmann could see more time behind the plate after bouncing around last year.
Still, there are a number of viable veteran backstops on the free-agent market, including Kurt Suzuki, Nick Hundley and Jarrod Saltalamacchia so they could still look to bring someone in.

Updated To-Do List
Add multiple starting pitchers
Bartolo Colon (one-year, $12.5 million) and R.A. Dickey (one-year, $7.5 million plus $8 million option for 2018) were both signed to short-term deals to take some pressure off the young staff and help in their development going forward.
Bounce-back candidate Jaime Garcia was also acquired from the St. Louis Cardinals with one year and $12 million left on his contract, with the hope that he can emerge as an attractive trade chip come July.
 
Add a catcher
It's looking more and more like the Braves will be content with some combination of Tyler Flowers, Anthony Recker and Tuffy Gosewisch manning the catcher position this coming season.
That said, Georgia Tech alum Matt Wieters remains on the team's "target list" this offseason, according to Jim Bowden of ESPN.
 
Add a right-handed bench bat
The Braves found their righty bench bat when they signed the versatile Sean Rodriguez to a two-year, $11.5 million deal on the heels of a career year offensively.
The 31-year-old posted an .859 OPS with 16 doubles, 18 home runs and 56 RBI in 342 plate appearances while playing everywhere in the field other than catcher and pitcher.

Updated To-Do List
Add a corner outfielder
While a reunion is still a possibility, the Orioles pulled their four-year offer to slugger Mark Trumbo, according to Roch Kubatko of MASNsports.com.
Michael Saunders is another free agent the team has been linked to, per Kubatko, and one way or another they will need to find some sort of upgrade with Joey Rickard (282 PA, .696 OPS) currently penciled in as the starting right fielder.
 
Add a starting pitcher
The O's starting rotation ranked 24th in the majors with a 4.72 ERA last season and was universally identified as the team's biggest weakness.
Despite that mediocrity, the front office appears content to head into 2017 with the same stable of arms.
"Our starting pitching is all right going into the season. They've all won more than they've lost over the course of their career. We have six starters going in, which is something we haven't had," general manager Dan Duquette told Brittany Ghiroli of MLB.com at the start of the offseason.
 
Add a catcher
A replacement for longtime backstop Matt Wieters was found in the form of recently non-tendered Welington Castillo, who signed a one-year, $6 million deal that includes a $7 million option for 2018.
That will give top prospect Chance Sisco further time to develop in the minors, with Caleb Joseph once again serving as the backup.
 
Add speed
The Orioles stole just 19 bases as a team last season and they've done little to add more of a speed element so far this offseason.
Rule 5 pick Aneury Tavarez is the one notable exception, as he had 13 triples and 18 stolen bases at the Double-A level last season.
 
Shop Zach Britton
So far this offseason there's been no indication that the Orioles would even entertain the idea of selling high on closer Zach Britton after his brilliant 2016 season.
He's projected to earn $11.4 million in arbitration and is controlled through the 2018 season.

Updated To-Do List
Add a power bat to replace David Ortiz
While the Red Sox didn't directly replace David Ortiz, the addition of first baseman Mitch Moreland plugs that hole on the roster.
Moreland will take over as the primary first baseman and Hanley Ramirez will move into the DH spot.
He's not on the same level as Big Papi, but Moreland has reached the 20-homer and 60-RBI marks in three of the past four seasons and he should be a marked improvement over Ramirez defensively.
 
Add a setup reliever
The departures of Brad Ziegler, Koji Uehara and Junichi Tazawa left the Red Sox in need of at least one quality setup man and they found one in Milwaukee Brewers right-hander Tyler Thornburg.
The 28-year-old is controllable through the 2019 season and fresh off a brilliant campaign where he posted a 2.15 ERA, 0.94 WHIP and 12.1 K/9 with 13 saves and 20 holds in 67 appearances.
He didn't come cheap, with third baseman Travis Shaw and prospects Mauricio Dubon and Josh Pennington heading to Milwaukee in the deal.
 
Explore the third base market
With Shaw and top prospect Yoan Moncada both traded, it appears the Red Sox are putting their eggs in the Pablo Sandoval basket as far as the third base position is concerned.
That said, utility man Brock Holt is capable of stepping into a starting role there if Sandoval struggles again or hits the disabled list, and the team is also showing interest in free agent Trevor Plouffe, according to Evan Drellich of the Boston Herald.
Plouffe could platoon at both corner infield spots and would provide valuable insurance.

Updated To-Do List
Add a late-inning reliever
The biggest move of the offseason so far for the defending champs was acquiring All-Star closer Wade Davis from the Kansas City Royals in exchange for outfielder Jorge Soler.
Davis is in the final year of his contract and dealt with some forearm issues last season, but he's more than capable of being one of the league's best relievers if he's healthy.
 
Add a left-handed reliever
The Cubs have an in-house option to take over as the primary lefty reliever in Rob Zastryzny (8 G, 1.12 ERA, 9.6 K/9) and they've also added a pair of outside arms in veteran Brian Duensing and Rule 5 pick Caleb Smith.
Boone Logan and Jerry Blevins are still available on the free-agent market if the team wants to bring in more of a sure thing, but there are options if they stand pat.
 
Add a swingman or starting pitching depth (*New Addition*)
With Jason Hammel departing in free agency and Mike Montgomery moving to the starting rotation, the Cubs are currently lacking a swingman/spot-starter type.
Adam Warren, Trevor Cahill and Travis Wood all began last season in the bullpen while providing the ability to start if needed.
As it stands there's no clear-cut "next man up" if a starter were to go down with injury, so look for them to bring aboard some cheap veteran depth to fill out the Triple-A rotation and provide insurance.
 
Explore a Jake Arrieta extension
According to Jesse Rogers of ESPNChicago.com, agent Scott Boras expects to open extension talks regarding Jake Arrieta when the two sides exchange arbitration figures in January.

Updated To-Do List
Decide what direction the franchise is going and act aggressively on that decision
This item was crossed off and then some during the winter meetings when the White Sox shipped out ace Chris Sale and right fielder Adam Eaton for a bevy of high-end prospect talent headlined by Yoan Moncada and Lucas Giolito.
It's clear now that rebuilding efforts are underway for the South Siders.
 
Trade David Robertson (*New Addition*)
The most obvious remaining trade chip on the roster is closer David Robertson.
There's been no shortage of interest on the trade market and the White Sox have little use for a veteran reliever set to earn $25 million over the next two seasons.
If they can save even half of that remaining money, moving him makes sense with Nate Jones waiting in the wings to take over ninth-inning duties.
 
Evaluate who else has positive trade value and explore the trade market (*New Addition*)
Starter Jose Quintana and Robertson are the two most talked about names on the trade market now that Sale and Eaton have been dealt.
Now the team needs to decide who else could be worth shopping.
First baseman Jose Abreu, third baseman Todd Frazier, infielder Brett Lawrie, outfielder Melky Cabrera and starter James Shields immediately jump to mind.

Updated To-Do List
Trade Zack Cozart
The Cincinnati Reds have yet to find a taker for shortstop Zack Cozart, who is entering his final season of arbitration and does not appear to figure into the team's long-term plans.
With Jose Peraza set to step into a more prominent role, Cozart could find himself on the bench if he's not traded this winter. Flipping him for any sort of return at this point would seem to be in the team's best interest.
 
Add a cheap veteran starter
Anthony DeSclafani, Dan Straily, Homer Bailey and Brandon Finnegan appear to be locked into the first four spots in the starting rotation, with a host of young arms set to compete for the No. 5 starter job.
Robert Stephenson, Cody Reed, Tim Adleman, Tyrell Jenkins and prospects Amir Garrett and Rookie Davis will all get a look this spring, but adding a cheap veteran to that mix makes sense if only to eat some innings and allow that group to start the season in the minors.
 
Fill out the bullpen
Tony Cingrani, Michael Lorenzen and Raisel Iglesias give the Reds an exciting young trio at the back of the bullpen, but there's still plenty of room for improvement filling out the relief corps around them.
Jumbo Diaz and Blake Wood are the only other relievers on the roster who saw significant time at the MLB level last season, and we're talking about a team that ranked 29th in the majors with a 5.09 bullpen ERA.

Updated To-Do List
Re-sign Mike Napoli
There was some mutual interest in a reunion with Mike Napoli at the start of the offseason and through the winter meetings, before the Cleveland Indians set their sights a bit higher.
They wound up addressing the need for a right-handed power bat by signing Edwin Encarnacion to a three-year, $60 million deal that includes a fourth-year option at $20 million with a $5 million buyout.
While Napoli was a fantastic clubhouse presence and wildly productive on a one-year, $7 million deal, there's little question EE is a significant upgrade to the lineup.
 
Add an outfielder
The Indians' need for an outfielder is directly linked to the health of Michael Brantley, so they may wait until spring training to make an addition here if the need arises.
Ideally, the team would line up with Brantley in left field, Tyler Naquin in center field and a platoon of Brandon Guyer and Lonnie Chisenhall in right field.
Abraham Almonte would serve as further depth, and top prospect Bradley Zimmer could be knocking on the door by June.

Updated To-Do List
Add multiple relievers
The Colorado Rockies have made one notable addition to the bullpen, signing left-hander Mike Dunn to a three-year, $19 million deal.
That said, this is a team that ranked last in the majors with a 5.13 bullpen ERA last season while converting just 37 of 65 save chances, so another quality relief arm or two certainly wouldn't hurt.
 
Add a first baseman
It wasn't the addition anyone expected, but the Rockies appear to have found their first baseman in Ian Desmond, who was signed to a massive five-year, $70 million deal during the winter meetings.
Keith Law of ESPN.com called the signing "baffling," and he was not alone in panning the surprising move to spend on a redundant hitter when the perennial need on the roster is more pitching.
While the signing may yet facilitate a trade of someone like Charlie Blackmon or Carlos Gonzalez, for the time being, Desmond is penciled in as the starting first baseman.
 
Explore the catcher market
The Rockies appear content with a platoon of Tom Murphy and Tony Wolters holding down the catcher position this coming season, following the departure of veteran Nick Hundley.
"Talking to our guys, they are high on Murphy and Wolters," new manager Bud Black told Patrick Saunders of the Denver Post. "High on their makeup, their aptitude, their work ethic, what they believe in, what they need to do to help our pitchers."

Updated To-Do List
Trade J.D. Martinez
According to Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com, it's "been a challenge" for the Detroit Tigers trying to find a trade partner as they shop outfielder J.D. Martinez.
The team is seeking "young, controllable talent" and may have a hard time finding it in exchange for an outfielder entering his final season of team control and coming off an injury-shortened season where he played just 120 games.
 
Explore other trade options
Justin Verlander, Miguel Cabrera and Ian Kinsler were always unlikely to be dealt this winter.
However, someone like lefty reliever Justin Wilson could bring a nice return after generating significant interest during the winter meetings, according to MLB Network's Jon Morosi.
With one of the worst farm systems in baseball and a team that looks like a fringe contender at best, the Tigers need to be actively looking for ways to add young talent.
 
Add a cheap center fielder
Tyler Collins, JaCoby Jones, Anthony Gose and non-roster invitee Alex Presley are currently the leading in-house candidates to man the center field position this coming season.
Look for them to add a veteran like Austin Jackson, Michael Bourn or Coco Crisp on a cheap, one-year deal to at least compete for the job.
 
Add a catcher
Alex Avila returned to the Tigers on a one-year, $2 million deal to serve in either a backup or platoon capacity with James McCann.
The 29-year-old spent last season with the Chicago White Sox after his first seven seasons in the league were played in a Tigers uniform.

Updated To-Do List
Add a center fielder
It looks like George Springer will slide over to center field after the team signed right fielder Josh Reddick to a four-year, $52 million deal.
Springer played center field in college and during his time in the minors, so it should be a relatively smooth transition and one that could improve the outfield defense as a whole.
 
Add a power bat
Carlos Beltran (29 HR, 93 RBI) and Brian McCann (20 HR, 58 RBI) were both added to the lineup, as well as the aforementioned Reddick who has a 30-homer season to his credit.
So while they may not have added a premier basher like Edwin Encarnacion, there is undoubtedly more power in the lineup top to bottom than there was a year ago.
 
Add a catcher
McCann is entering his age-33 season and his skills have declined across the board from the All-Star level he was at during his time with the Atlanta Braves.
However, he's still a good bet for 20-plus home runs, does a nice job handling the staff and grades out as an above-average pitch-framer, according to Stat Corner.
Evan Gattis will also continue to see a couple starts per week behind the dish.
 
Add a left-handed reliever
After signing a three-year, $18 million extension last offseason, left-hander Tony Sipp saw his ERA climb from 1.99 in 2015 to 4.95 in 2016.
At the very least that leaves the team in need of a second viable southpaw option in the bullpen.
Ashur Tolliver is the only other lefty reliever on the 40-man roster and C.J. Riefenhauser will be in camp as a non-roster invitee, but another proven arm would be nice.
 
Explore the front-line starter trade market
With Dallas Keuchel taking a step back and Lance McCullers struggling to stay healthy, the missing piece of the puzzle right now for the Astros appears to be a front-line starter.
Brian McTaggart of MLB.com took inventory of the team's potential targets following the winter meetings:
The Astros are trying to land a starting pitcher, but aren't willing to trade [Alex] Bregman. That has made things rather difficult. Among some of their targets are Jose Quintana, Jake Odorizzi, Chris Archer, Danny Duffy and Yordano Ventura. The team has the prospects to get a deal done and is likely to make a move at some point.
The White Sox's asking price of Francis Martes, Joe Musgrove and Kyle Tucker for Quintana was rebuffed earlier this offseason, per baseball reporter Peter Gammons.

Updated To-Do List
Trade Wade Davis
Despite some arm issues last season, the Kansas City Royals had no trouble finding a taker for closer Wade Davis, flipping him to the Chicago Cubs for outfielder Jorge Soler.
Davis had a $10 million option exercised at the start of the offseason and is set to hit free agency next winter.
 
Add a starting pitcher
Danny Duffy and Ian Kennedy look like the only sure things in the Royals' starting rotation.
Yordano Ventura, Jason Vargas, Mike Minor and Chris Young are also options, and rookie Matt Strahm will get a shot at starting this spring after excelling in the bullpen.
Still, it wouldn't hurt to add another low-cost arm or two capable of stepping into the rotation.
 
Re-sign or replace Kendrys Morales
Soler figures to take over as the primary DH where he can focus on his offensive game and perhaps avoid the hamstring issues that have plagued him in recent years.
There's still legitimate 30-homer potential in his bat, and with four years of team control remaining, acquiring him was a risk-reward move worth making for the small-market Royals.

Updated To-Do List
Add a second baseman
Shortly after the Washington Nationals acquired Adam Eaton during the winter meetings, infielder Danny Espinosa voiced his displeasure about returning to a super utility role with Trea Turner set to displace him as the starting shortstop.
It didn't take the Nationals long to rectify the situation as he was shipped to the Los Angeles Angels where he'll represent a massive upgrade at the second base position.
Angels second basemen hit a paltry .235/.275/.345 last season with 10 home runs and 47 RBI.
 
Add a starting pitcher
A healthy Garrett Richards figures to give the Angels' staff a significant boost, but there was still a need for starting pitching help with Andrew Heaney and Nick Tropeano both recovering from Tommy John surgery.
Jesse Chavez was signed to a one-year, $5.75 million deal that includes $2.5 million worth of incentives for games started, according to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports.
The 33-year-old worked mostly as a starter in 2014 and 2015, pitching to a 3.83 ERA and 1.33 WHIP over 303.0 innings, before spending all of last season pitching out of the bullpen.
 
Add a leadoff hitter
The addition of speedy Ben Revere gives the Angels another leadoff option outside of Yunel Escobar, who hits for a solid average but profiles better as a No. 2 hitter given his limited speed.
Revere will likely platoon with Cameron Maybin in left field, though it's not out of the question to think he could play his way into a larger role if he bounces back from a rough 2016 season.
 
Add a setup reliever
The Angels moved quickly to re-sign Andrew Bailey at the start of the offseason, but the only significant addition to the bullpen so far has been claiming Kirby Yates off waivers from the New York Yankees.
Keep an eye on prospect Keynan Middleton, who was added to the 40-man roster in the offseason after posting a 3.41 ERA, 1.14 WHIP and 12.0 K/9 over three minor league levels last season. He could make an impact in 2017.

Updated To-Do List
Re-sign Justin Turner
With few other viable options on the free-agent market and no clear in-house replacement, the Dodgers brought Turner back on a four-year, $64 million deal.
 
Re-sign or replace Kenley Jansen
The Miami Marlins made a strong push to sign Jansen, but the Dodgers won out in the end.
He returns on a five-year, $80 million deal that includes an opt-out after the third year.
 
Add a setup reliever
Bringing back Jansen was obviously huge for the Dodgers' bullpen, but they could still use another proven setup man with Joe Blanton reaching free agency.
Pedro Baez and Blanton were leaned on heavily in bridging the gap to Jansen last season, and unless the team trusts the combination of Grant Dayton and Josh Fields to step into more significant roles, a veteran addition will need to be made.
 
Add a second baseman and trade Howie Kendrick
Howie Kendrick was shipped to the Philadelphia Phillies shortly after this article was written the first time, honoring his wishes to be traded rather than serving in a part-time role.
The team has yet to find a starting second baseman for 2017, though.
Bringing back Chase Utley is still a very real possibility, though the team's No. 1 target at the moment appears to be Minnesota Twins slugger Brian Dozier.
The two teams have been actively discussing a swap, though deciding what prospects to include along with right-hander Jose De Leon has been a sticking point, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.

Updated To-Do List
Trade for a controllable starting pitcher
The Miami Marlins have opted against trading from their MLB core and flipping someone like Marcell Ozuna for a starting pitcher, at least to this point.
Instead, the focus this offseason has been on building up the bullpen in hopes it can prop up the rotation.
Brad Ziegler and Junichi Tazawa were signed to join A.J. Ramos, Kyle Barraclough and David Phelps to form what should be one of the better relief corps in the National League.
 
Add another starting pitcher
As for the additions the team has made to the starting rotation, Edinson Volquez and Jeff Locke were signed to fill out a staff that will also include Wei-Yin Chen, Adam Conley and Tom Koehler.
Both pitchers offer some upside relative to their cost and 2016 performance, and the team has plenty of young depth should one or both falter.
 
Add a left-handed reliever
Losing free agent Mike Dunn leaves the Marlins without a left-handed reliever in the projected bullpen, per Roster Resource.
"Handedness didn’t come into play as much as finding the highest quality [reliever]," team president Michael Hill told Tim Healey of the Sun Sentinel.r
Playing in an NL East division that includes left-handed sluggers like Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy, Freddie Freeman, Curtis Granderson and Jay Bruce, among others, they may want to rethink that.
 
Find a platoon partner for Justin Bour
First baseman Justin Bour has a .223 average and .564 OPS against left-handed pitching, so finding him a platoon partner would make sense.
The team appears open to the idea of giving him more exposure against southpaws, though.
"There’s not that clear-cut complement at first base, but I think in the growth and maturation of Justin Bour, [Mattingly has] talked about trying to challenge him more and expose him more to left-handed pitching," Hill told Healey.

Updated To-Do List
Trade Ryan Braun for a significant return
There's been essentially nothing in the way of Ryan Braun rumors so far this offseason.
The Brewers have no reason to trade him unless someone comes along with a huge offer, so expect him to stay put, at least until the deadline.
 
Add a third baseman
The Brewers landed a nice return for setup man Tyler Thornburg, including third baseman Travis Shaw.
The 26-year-old posted a .726 OPS with 34 doubles, 16 home runs and 71 RBI over 530 plate appearances last season and is under team control through the 2021 season.
 
Add multiple relievers
The Brewers have not exactly made a splash on the relief-pitcher market this winter, but they have added a number of possible options for the relief corps.
Left-hander Tommy Milone is capable of starting and could serve in a swingman capacity, while Ryan Webb, Steven Geltz and Andy Oliver all saw time at the MLB level last season.
 
Add a closer (*New Addition*)
With the ability to offer a clear path to the closer's role, the Brewers could be an attractive landing spot for someone like Sergio Romo, Santiago Casilla, Neftali Feliz or Greg Holland.
Corey Knebel, Carlos Torres and Jacob Barnes are the leading in-house candidates to take over ninth-inning duties, according to Adam McCalvy of MLB.com.

Updated To-Do List
Add a catcher
The market moved quickly for Jason Castro, and the Minnesota Twins ended up landing the veteran catcher with a three-year, $24.5 million deal.
Castro is one of the best in the business at pitch-framing and he has decent pop for the catcher position with double-digit home runs in each of the past four seasons.
His presence leading the staff should help prospects like Jose Berrios, Stephen Gonsalves and others make a smoother transition to the MLB rotation.
 
Add a closer
Similar to the Milwaukee Brewers, the Twins could emerge as an attractive destination for pitchers with closer experience as they have a relatively clear path to the ninth-inning job.
Brandon Kintzler did an admirable job holding down the fort last season, converting 17 saves in 20 chances and posting a 3.15 ERA over 54 appearances. He's better suited for a setup role, though, as he lacks swing-and-miss stuff.
 
Trade Trevor Plouffe
The Twins released Plouffe on Nov. 18 when they were unable to find a taker on the trade market.
An $8.2 million projected price tag in his final year of arbitration was obviously the motivating factor in cutting ties with the 30-year-old.
 
Shop Ervin Santana
So far this offseason there's been no indication that the Twins would even entertain the idea of flipping Santana in a market devoid of quality starting pitching.
That seems like a missed opportunity for a team that likely won't be in a position to contend over the final two years of his contract.

Updated To-Do List
Re-sign Yoenis Cespedes
The Mets brought Cespedes back on a four-year, $110 million deal to once again serve as an anchor in the middle of their offensive attack.
 
Trade Jay Bruce (*New Addition*)
Successfully re-signing Cespedes leaves the Mets with an outfield logjam that will need to be addressed before the start of the season.
Jay Bruce, Curtis Granderson, Juan Lagares and former top prospects Michael Conforto and Brandon Nimmo will all be vying for playing time, and trading Bruce—who is entering the final year of his contract—seems like the obvious solution.
The 29-year-old doesn't have a ton of trade value as a one-dimensional power threat, so the Mets can't expect much of significance in return.
 
Add a setup reliever
Despite the domestic violence charges against him being dropped, closer Jeurys Familia is still expected to be suspended at least 30 games, according to Kristie Ackert of the New York Daily News.
Addison Reed will presumably step into the closer's role in his absence, leaving the Mets bullpen weakened as a whole, so adding another setup option to the mix would go a long way in helping the team get through that first month.
 
Re-sign or replace Jerry Blevins
Blevins was an integral part of the relief corps this past season with a 2.79 ERA, 1.21 WHIP, 11.1 K/9 and 16 holds in 73 appearances.
He's the top lefty option on the free-agent market along with Boone Logan, and the Mets are lacking a quality left-hander in the bullpen if he signs elsewhere, so bringing him back seems like a no-brainer.

Updated To-Do List
Add a starting pitcher
The New York Yankees have three spots in the starting rotation decided with Masahiro Tanaka, Michael Pineda and CC Sabathia at the top.
That leaves some combination of Chad Green, Luis Severino, Bryan Mitchell and Luis Cessa to fill out the staff, and while all four are capable of being quality MLB starters, ideally they would be competing for one spot and not two.
Jason Hammel is still an option on the free-agent market, but at this point, it appears the Yankees are content to go with their in-house options.
 
Add multiple relievers
The Yankees brought back flame-throwing closer Aroldis Chapman on a five-year, $86 million deal—a new record contract for a relief pitcher.
That's the only notable addition to the relief corps so far this offseason, though.
Trading for Tyler Clippard and re-acquiring Adam Warren in July were nice under-the-radar moves that will help bolster the pen for the upcoming season, but there's still room to add another veteran arm or two.
 
Explore the market for a power bat
The Yankees found a power bad and their new DH in Matt Holliday, who signed a one-year, $13 million deal after having his option declined by the St. Louis Cardinals.
The 36-year-old played just 110 games last season after suffering a hand injury, but still managed to tally 20 doubles, 20 home runs and 62 RBI with a .782 OPS over 426 plate appearances.
He's a nice short-term addition who will help in 2017 without bogging down the payroll going forward.

Updated To-Do List
Add a center fielder
As it stands, the Oakland Athletics would enter the season with a platoon of Brett Eibner and Jake Smolinski manning the center field position.
The team made a run at signing Edwin Encarnacion so it appears there's money to be spent on the right player, though the free-agent market for center fielders is down to names like Rajai Davis, Michael Bourn and Austin Jackson.
The A's were strongly linked to Kansas City Royals outfielder Jarrod Dyson during the winter meetings, according to Joel Sherman of the New York Post, so perhaps those talks will rekindle in the days and weeks to come.
 
Add a starting pitcher
The A's have plenty of options for the starting rotation. It's just that they are relatively inexperienced behind ace Sonny Gray, who will be looking to rebound from a dreadful season.
Kendall Graveman (26) and Sean Manaea (24) are locks for two of the remaining spots, while Andrew Triggs (27), Jharel Cotton (24), Jesse Hahn (27), Daniel Mengden (23), Dillon Overton (25) and Frankie Montas (23) will all get a look this spring.
Bringing in a veteran or two would provide some competition and perhaps some assistance in those young starters' development.

Updated To-Do List
Add an outfielder
Assuming Cesar Hernandez and Freddy Galvis both stay put, Howie Kendrick will be the Philadelphia Phillies' everyday left fielder and Odubel Herrera will once again man center field.
That leaves right field as one spot where the team could look to make a splash in free agency, perhaps by signing someone like Jose Bautista.
Aaron Altherr and Tyler Goeddel, prospects Roman Quinn and Nick Williams and non-roster invitee Daniel Nava are the leading in-house candidates to man the position.
 
Add a veteran starting pitcher
The Phillies turned to the trade market to shore up the starting rotation last offseason, hitting on Jeremy Hellickson and missing on Charlie Morton who made just four starts before undergoing season-ending hamstring surgery.
They'll be hoping to hit once again after acquiring Clay Buchholz from the Boston Red Sox.
The 2016 season as a whole was not pretty for Buchholz, who struggled early and lost his rotation spot, but a strong finish is reason for optimism.
He was 5-1 with a 3.22 ERA and 1.11 WHIP in 58.2 innings after the All-Star break, including a strong month of September in which he rejoined the rotation and went 3-0 with a 3.14 ERA and four quality starts in five games.
 
Shop Vincent Velasquez
There was some talk of a potential deal that would send Velasquez to the Texas Rangers leading up to the trade deadline, according to Jim Salisbury of CSN Philly, but his name has not come up in any notable rumors so far this offseason.

Updated To-Do List
Add a starting pitcher
The Pittsburgh Pirates starting rotation took a huge step backward last season, going from fifth in the majors in starters ERA (3.53) to 22nd (4.67).
With an inexperienced stable of arms behind ace Gerrit Cole, bringing aboard at least one veteran arm to help take some pressure off the youngsters seemed like a must, and the team did that earlier this week by re-signing Ivan Nova to a three-year, $26 million deal.
Nova was 5-2 with a 3.06 ERA, 1.10 WHIP and a 52-to-3 strikeout-to-walk ratio in 11 starts with the Pirates after coming over at the trade deadline.
 
Add a right-handed setup reliever
Replacing right-handed setup man Neftali Feliz in a bullpen that already features a pair of quality left-handers in Tony Watson and Felipe Rivero was also a must.
Daniel Hudson was the answer, agreeing to a two-year, $11 million deal to replace Feliz and give the team a potential closer option if Watson winds up traded at some point in the near future.
 
Re-sign or replace Matt Joyce
After breaking camp with the team as a non-roster invitee last spring, Joyce landed a two-year, $11 million deal from the Oakland Athletics this winter.
With utility man Sean Rodriguez also departing for greener pastures, it appears the Pirates will turn to the young duo of Adam Frazier and Alen Hanson to replace them on the bench.

Updated To-Do List
Add multiple starting pitchers
The San Diego Padres starting rotation is not going to be a strength in 2017, that much is abundantly clear.
Looking to fill out the staff with warm bodies alongside Luis Perdomo, Christian Friedrich and Paul Clemens, the team re-signed left-hander Clayton Richard and brought aboard Jhoulys Chacin on matching one-year, $1.75 million deals.
The team has also been linked to veterans Jered Weaver and Jake Peavy, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
 
Add a late-inning reliever
Given the penny-pinching they are doing when it comes to filling out the starting rotation, it's unlikely the Padres will make any significant additions to the relief corps.
As it stands, the group of Kevin Quackenbush, Brad Hand, Ryan Buchter and Brandon Maurer actually has a chance to be one of the strengths of the team.
 
Decide if Luis Sardinas is the answer at shortstop
"The Padres have checked in with just about every team that may have a SS available," tweeted AJ Cassavell of MLB.com earlier this offseason.
Whether the team is looking for an insurance policy for Sardinas or a legitimate replacement remains to be seen, but the 23-year-old has earned an extended look after he hit .287/.353/.417 in 120 plate appearances last season.
 
Dump Derek Norris
Norris was shipped to the Washington Nationals in exchange for 19-year-old right-hander Pedro Avila, who did not appear among the top 30 prospects in the Washington system last season, according to the Baseball America Prospect Handbook.
The path is now clear for Austin Hedges to take over as the starting catcher.

Updated To-Do List
Add a closer
From the start, it looked like Mark Melancon was the San Francisco Giants' No. 1 target in their search for a closer, and they got their guy during the first day of the winter meetings.
Melancon, 31, inked a four-year, $62 million deal which looks like a relative bargain alongside the massive five-year pacts signed by Aroldis Chapman and Kenley Jansen.
 
Add multiple other relievers
To this point, Melancon is the only significant addition to the bullpen.
The team does have some intriguing non-roster invitees lined up, including Bryan Morris, Josh Dominguez and Neil Ramirez.
They'll be leaning heavily on left-hander Will Smith and young righties Derek Law and Hunter Strickland as things currently stand, though.
 
Add a left fielder
It doesn't sound like the Giants have the money to make a significant addition in left field, per John Shea of the San Francisco Chronicle:
The Mark Melancon signing pretty much ended any talk of the Giants adding another player with a big contract.
The only way the team could take on that type of player — J.D. Martinez, anybody? — is by moving a player with a similar salary, according to general manager Bobby Evans.
That likely means a platoon of Jarrett Parker and Mac Williamson manning the position in 2017.

Updated To-Do List
Add an outfielder
The big addition this offseason for the Seattle Mariners has been shortstop Jean Segura and they also picked up a potential starting outfielder in that deal in Mitch Haniger.
"Haniger could end up being the most important player in that trade," one opposing scout told Ryan Divish of the Seattle Times.
The 26-year-old hit .321/.419/.581 with 34 doubles, 25 home runs and 94 RBI between Double-A and Triple-A last season.
 
Add a left-handed reliever
The market for left-handed relievers has been booming this winter and the Mariners jumped in the middle of it when they signed Marc Rzepczynski to a two-year, $11 million deal.
The 31-year-old posted a 2.64 ERA with 11 holds over 70 appearances last season.
 
Add a first baseman
Dan Vogelbach has earned a shot at the starting first base job after hitting .292/.417/.505 with 23 home runs and 96 RBI in Triple-A last season.
Given his struggles against left-handed pitching, a platoon partner was a must and the Mariners found one when they acquired Danny Valencia from the Oakland Athletics.
 
Explore starting pitching depth
The Mariners need to do more than just explore starting pitching options after shipping Taijuan Walker to the Arizona Diamondbacks in the aforementioned Segura deal.
With Felix Hernandez, Hisashi Iwakuma, James Paxton, Ariel Miranda and Nathan Karns currently penciled in as the projected rotation, at the very least they'll need to add some viable depth.

Updated To-Do List
Add a center fielder
The Cardinals filled their biggest need and exacted some revenge on the rival Chicago Cubs—who signed away Jason Heyward and John Lackey last offseason—by adding Dexter Fowler on a five-year, $82.5 million deal.
That will allow Randal Grichuk to slide over to left field, which improves the outfield defense as a whole. It also gives the Cards two of the best on-base threats in the game in Fowler and Matt Carpenter.
 
Add a left-handed reliever
The market was set on what's been a crazy offseason for quality left-handed relievers when the Cardinals gave Brett Cecil a four-year, $30.5 million deal.
That's a steep price to pay for a non-closer, but the Cardinals had a clear need with Zach Duke undergoing Tommy John surgery and Kevin Siegrist boasting reverse platoon splits.
Cecil struggled early in 2016, but he recovered nicely and there's no question he's been one of the game's premier lefty setup men for years.
 
Extend Carlos Martinez
The Cardinals and Martinez have mutual interest in an extension, according to Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
Second baseman Kolten Wong signed his five-year extension on March 2, so perhaps something will get done during spring training.

Updated To-Do List
Trade SP Drew Smyly or Jake Odorizzi for a bat
So far the Rays have held on to their remaining controllable pitching trade chips after sending Matt Moore to the San Francisco Giants at the trade deadline.
Drew Smyly, Alex Cobb and Erasmo Ramirez are the most likely arms to be dealt if the team does pull the trigger on a deal, according to Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times.
Smyly was discussed with the Seattle Mariners during the winter meetings, per Ryan Divish of the Seattle Times.
 
Add a catcher
After years of mediocre production and a revolving door, the Rays finally made a significant investment in the catcher position, signing Wilson Ramos to a two-year, $12.5 million deal.
Ramos is expected to return from the torn ACL he suffered in September sometime around June or July, per Topkin, and while he may DH at first the plan is to return him to catching once he's ready.
 
Add a right-handed power bat
Ideally, Ramos can serve as a right-handed power bat in the middle of the lineup.
However, this bullet point was speaking more to the need for a right-handed platoon option who could pair with Brad Miller at first base and/or Corey Dickerson in right field as neither hits left-handed pitching particularly well.
A reunion with Steve Pearce would have been ideal, but he's since signed with the Toronto Blue Jays.
 
Add cheap bullpen help
Rule 5 pick Kevin Gadea is the only notable addition to the relief corps so far this offseason.
The 22-year-old has yet to pitch above the Single-A level, posting a 2.36 ERA, 1.02 WHIP and 12.5 K/9 last season.

Updated To-Do List
Add a No. 3 starter
Andrew Cashner was the Texas Rangers' solution to shoring up the starting rotation, signing a one-year, $10 million deal prior to the winter meetings.
The 30-year-old has always had front-line stuff, he's just never been able to produce over a full season and injuries have certainly played a role.
There's still some question whether Cashner, Martin Perez and A.J. Griffin can hold down the back of the rotation for a team trying to contend for a title, but it's a solid addition at a reasonable cost.
 
Add a center fielder
The Rangers brought back Carlos Gomez on a one-year, $11.5 million deal, opting to let Ian Desmond walk in free agency.
There's a chance Gomez could slide over to left field if Delino DeShields bounce back, which would allow the team to move Shin-Soo Choo into a full-time DH role.
Either way, the outfield situation is resolved by re-signing Gomez, who hit .284/.362/.543 with eight home runs and 24 RBI in 33 games with the Rangers last season.
 
Add a first baseman or DH
Some combination of Joey Gallo, Jurickson Profar and Ryan Rua is currently positioned to fill the DH and first base spots that were vacated by the retirement of Prince Fielder and the free agency of Carlos Beltran and Mitch Moreland.
While there's no shortage of potential with that group, none is anywhere close to a proven commodity, and bringing in someone like Mike Napoli could bring some clarity to the situation.

Updated To-Do List
Re-sign DH Edwin Encarnacion
While the Toronto Blue Jays did not bring back Edwin Encarnacion, they found his replacement in Kendrys Morales.
Morales signed a three-year, $33 million deal after back-to-back productive seasons with the Kansas City Royals that saw him post an .821 OPS while averaging 26 home runs and 100 RBI.
 
Add a corner outfielder
The Blue Jays added someone capable of playing the corner outfield in Steve Pearce, but he'll likely bounce around with significant time spent in a platoon role with Justin Smoak at first base.
That leaves some combination of Melvin Upton Jr., Ezequiel Carrera and Dalton Pompey to fill the corner outfield spots on either side of center fielder Kevin Pillar.
There's still a chance the team brings back Jose Bautista and there are plenty of other mid-level options on the free-agent market, including Michael Saunders, so expect some sort of further addition before the offseason is over.
 
Add a setup reliever
Jason Grilli returns to team with Roberto Osuna at the back of the bullpen, but after losing Joaquin Benoit and Brett Cecil in free agency, the Blue Jays relief corps looks like a clear weakness.
Rule 5 pick Joe Biagini is capable of stepping into a more high-leverage role after an impressive rookie season, but adding a quality left-hander and another proven veteran would go a long way.

Updated To-Do List
Re-sign or replace RP Mark Melancon
Despite being involved on the closer market, the Nationals have yet to add a proven ninth-inning option to the back of the bullpen.
Shawn Kelley has the swing-and-miss stuff to succeed in the role and will likely get the first chance if no one is added before the offseason is over.
Blake Treinen, Sammy Solis and Koda Glover are also candidates for save chances.
 
Add a catcher
Derek Norris was acquired on the cheap from the San Diego Padres following the departure of Wilson Ramos in free agency, but it's hard not to view that move as more of an insurance policy than an answer.
Earlier this month, Jamal Collier of MLB.com reported that the Nationals are "still in the mix" for free agent Matt Wieters, so that's something worth keeping an eye on as his market continues to develop slowly this winter.
 
Decide on a position for Trea Turner
Acquiring Adam Eaton was a clear decision that Trea Turner would be moving back to his natural position of shortstop this coming season, and trading Danny Espinosa a few days later clinched it.
 
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Projected salaries courtesy of MLBTradeRumors. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted.

It makes sense that to improve a Major League Baseball club, a player could not have been on the team last season.
Though the Los Angeles Dodgers' re-signings of Kenley Jansen, Justin Turner and Rich Hill were monumentally important, they didn't improve the club from its standing in 2016.
Instead, players who signed with new teams have the chance to make an impact in their new settings. All signings are not created equal, so here are the most impactful among them. Each of them fills a need glaring for each club when the 2016 season concluded.

No team had a bigger hole to fill this offseason than the San Francisco Giants, who drastically needed to upgrade the back end of their bullpen.
Many thought San Francisco was the favorite in the National League West after the first month of the season, but it lost the division over the final two months because it didn't have a closer.
The Giants ended up four games back in the NL West and won the league's Wild Card Game, only to suffer a maddening defeat in the National League Division Series to the Chicago Cubs at the hands of—you guessed it—the bullpen.
The Giants blew two saves, ultimately winning one of those games, en route to losing the series 3-1.
They acted decisively this offseason, signing Mark Melancon, who has been one of baseball's best closers over the last three seasons. The righty saved 131 games over that span and will undoubtedly have a major impact on a Giants team that led MLB in blown saves last season.
On top of the Giants' quality starting pitching and a talented group of position players, Melancon could be the missing piece to a fourth World Series under manager Bruce Bochy.

There hasn't been a team in baseball more active this offseason than the Houston Astros, who are looking to make the playoffs after a disappointing 2016 season in which they finished third in the American League West.
Houston signed Carlos Beltran, whose switch-hitting bat could fit nicely between right-handers Carlos Correa and Jose Altuve, the team's shortstop and second baseman, respectively.
Last season, Beltran raked at a clip of .304/.344/.546 in 99 games with the New York Yankees before they shipped him to the Texas Rangers in a trade-deadline deal. His numbers dropped slightly, but he still finished the season with 29 homers and 93 RBI in stints with both clubs.
Beltran will turn 40 on April 24 but still appears to have the kind of bat that can impact a close division race. It's important to note that he brings a veteran presence to the clubhouse too.

The Cleveland Indians came as close as a team can to winning a World Series title without taking home the trophy. They made it to the 10th inning of Game 7 before losing to the Cubs.
Any move to improve the club—even the slightest—has a chance to put it over the top. Instead, the Indians made a big one, signing Edwin Encarnacion, who was perhaps the most coveted bat on the free-agent market.
The team did not extend a qualifying offer to Mike Napoli, who served as the first baseman and designated hitter for the club in 2016, looking to improve at the spot.
Encarnacion certainly offers the Indians a better bat, besting Napoli in every important statistical category in 2016. The former Toronto Blue Jay, who helped the team to back-to-back playoff appearances, slashed .263/.357/.529 with 42 homers and an AL-leading 127 RBI.
He'll slot into the middle of the Cleveland lineup, immediately impacting a team that should be a runaway favorite to repeat as AL Central champs.

Since the turn of the century, the St. Louis Cardinals have been arguably the best organization in baseball, contending for a World Series nearly every season by cultivating players like center fielder Dexter Fowler.
Fowler does less heralded—but still monumentally important—things well: play solid defense, work deep pitch counts, draw walks and run the bases effectively.
It's by this method that the Cardinals have made 12 of the last 17 postseasons, which includes a streak of five straight that ended this past season.
We can gush over Fowler's 2016 statistics with the Cubs, including a .276/.393/.447 slash line. But perhaps this acquisition is best qualified by saying Fowler plays the game the right way.
The same way the Cardinals have done for close to two decades.

The 2018-19 MLB offseason is going to be epic. Epic enough, in fact, to justify the use of that played-out adjective.
A galaxy of the game's brightest stars will hit the market. Front offices will throw around enough cash to exceed the gross domestic product of a few small nations.
MLB.com's Anthony Castrovince was already craning his neck toward the 2018-19 offseason in December 2015:
The continued escalation of baseball salaries can be hard for the common fan to wrap his or her head around, yet because of how rare it is for a premier player to reach the open market in his prime years, it's the cost of doing business.
But here's the deal about these deals: You ain't seen nothing yet.
Just wait until three years from now, when the free-agent pool looks to go from deep to downright historic.
As Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan put it, "There is a historic confluence of talent and money coming, and it's going to influence every single move of consequence made not just today but following the 2016 and '17 seasons, too."
Assuming neither signs an extension before then, Bryce Harper and Manny Machado will be available as they enter their age-26 seasons. By itself, that makes the hitting class a glistening treasure trove.  
Add ancillary names such as Josh Donaldson, Daniel Murphy, Brian Dozier and Adam Jones, and the offensive pickings are inarguably impressive.
What about the starting pitching? That's where the hype could exceed the haul. 
In fact, the closer you peer at the 2018-19 starting pitching pool, the shallower it looks.
We begin on a somber note: That's the offseason Jose Fernandez would have hit free agency (assuming, as in all these cases, the Miami Marlins didn't lock him up first).
Fernandez, like Harper and Machado, would have been entering his age-26 season. He paced qualified MLB starters with 12.5 strikeouts per nine innings in 2016 and seemed poised to elevate his already enviable game to the next plateau.
Now, after his tragic death in a September boating accident, we're left with a heap of regrets and unanswerable what-ifs.
To be fair, there could be other ace-level arms on the market. The gaudiest name is Clayton Kershaw, who could pull the opt-out ripcord after the 2018 season.

He'll be entering his age-30 season, and he missed more than two months with a serious back injury in 2016. At the same time, he posted a 1.69 ERA with 172 strikeouts in 149 innings. The three-time National League Cy Young Award winner and one-time NL MVP could well command a ludicrous contract.
It's nearly impossible, however, to imagine the Los Angeles Dodgers letting Kershaw get away. He is the face of the franchise. The Dodgers are the only big league club he's ever known and, much like Buster Posey with the San Francisco Giants, they are likely to be the only big league club he ever does know, at least until his prime is fully spent.
Odds are Kershaw's opt-out will merely be a chance to negotiate a raise, with the deep-pocketed Dodgers dutifully paying up.
If Fernandez and Kershaw are off the table, who does that leave?
There's 2015 American League Cy Young Award winner Dallas Keuchel, but he took a huge stumble back last season, posting a 4.55 ERA.
There's New York Mets right-hander Matt Harvey, but he's coming off a 4.86 ERA and surgery for thoracic outlet syndrome.
David Price could opt out of his deal with the Boston Red Sox. That's no guarantee, however, after Price surrendered an MLB-leading 227 hits in his first season in Beantown. Even if he does opt out, Price will be entering his age-33 season, making any long-term pact problematic. 
Cole Hamels could be available if the Texas Rangers don't exercise his $20 million option, but he'll turn 35 in December 2018.
There are other interesting names on the list, courtesy of Tim Dierkes of MLB Trade Rumors, including Garrett Richards and Carlos Carrasco, but none that leap out as can't-miss options worthy of bank-busting megadeals.
Add it up and you have less of a once-in-a-generation gold mine and more of a hodgepodge of aging veterans and reclamation projects.

What's the point of all this, other than a little simmering speculation to supplant the waning hot stove? At the least, it should be a wakeup call to teams planning to hoard their resources for post-2018.
Take the New York Yankees, who have restocked their farm system and have a glut of money set to come off the books. 
The Yanks should absolutely position themselves to be players for Harper and Machado, and possibly both. As they look to the rotation, however, they'd be wise to consider other avenues, including Chicago White Sox southpaw Jose Quintana, who is inked through 2020 with a pair of club options.
New York may have already gotten the message. It has been among the "most aggressive teams" on Quintana, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale. 
Whether that happens, the point stands: Franchises with starting pitching needs putting all their eggs in the 2018-19 basket should reconsider.
"With God as my witness, I don't know who is in the 2018 free-agent class," Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said in March, per Joel Sherman of the New York Post. 
If you believe that, I have a bridge in Brooklyn to sell you. When it comes to arms, though, it's probably the right mentality for Cashman and MLB's other 29 GMs to adopt.
Otherwise, the most epic part of that distant, fabled winter pitching class could be the letdown.
   
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

Joe Blanton is dangerously close to going into the new year without a new team, but it appears his market is heating up. 
Continue for updates.
Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported teams are expressing increased interest in Blanton with most elite relievers signed. He points to a return to the Los Angeles Dodgers as a possibility.
The 36-year-old converted starter posted a 2.48 ERA and 1.01 WHIP in 75 appearances last season in Los Angeles. He struck out a batter per inning while converting 28 holds as a setup man for Kenley Jansen.
The Dodgers already reportedly re-signed longtime closer Jansen earlier this offseason, per Jim Bowden of ESPN and Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports. Bringing back Blanton would solidify a back half that helped lead Los Angeles to within two games of a World Series berth.
The move to the pen, which began in 2015, gave Blanton a new lease on a career that appeared to be nearing an end. He retired from baseball in 2014 after failing to make the Oakland Athletics roster and following a four-year stretch of futility as a starter. 
"I had my time starting. Now it's kind of my second career and I've really enjoyed it," Blanton said in August, per Corey Seidman of CSNPhilly.com. "I'm proud of what I did [starting]. A lot of people had better careers and a lot of people had worse careers. But I'm proud of what I did, I did it for a long time. I'm happy with where I'm at right now."
Blanton shouldn't have any trouble finding a market for his services, even if he doesn't return to Los Angeles. His underlying numbers were generally pretty solid, though he did have times where he struggled with command. If his walk rate returns to his career average, Blanton should enjoy as much if not more success in 2017 as an eighth-inning option.

Despite being limited to 84 games in 2016, third baseman Trevor Plouffe has reportedly found a new home in the MLB.
Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal, citing sources, reported on Tuesday that Plouffe agreed to a deal with the Oakland Athletics. On Wednesday morning, FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported that the agreement is in the range of $5 million plus incentives. 
Rosenthal first linked Plouffe to the A's on Jan. 6, but Oakland wasn't the only team to express interest.
The Boston Herald's Evan Drellich reported on Dec. 27 that the Boston Red Sox were looking to potentially sign Plouffe, while the Boston Globe's Nick Cafardo reported on Jan. 7 that the Atlanta Braves and Kansas City Royals were also considering the infielder. 
Injuries interrupted Plouffe's 2016 campaign, and his offensive numbers suffered as a result. He batted a career-high .260, but his slugging percentage dropped from .435 in 2015 to .420. His 12 home runs and 47 runs batted in were his fewest since 2011, when he appeared in 81 games.
The 30-year-old's home and road splits do raise the question of whether he can be a productive hitter outside Target Field, per Baseball-Reference.com.
Rotoworld provided analysis on Plouffe's fantasy value for 2017: "Plouffe figures to see regular starts at third base against lefties in Oakland, but he's doubtful to hold relevance in standard fantasy leagues."

Major League Baseball's hot stove has cooled off in the aftermath of the winter meetings, but there's still some buzz circulating the rumor mill as the calendar gets set to flip to 2017. 
Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier has emerged as a legitimate trade candidate following a sensational 2016 season, and he's not the only infielder who could be available. 
Then there's the Tampa Bay Rays' Drew Smyly, who has continued to generate interest from teams in need of quality starting pitchers to round out their rotations. 
So as the rumblings get louder, here's a rundown of the latest rumors from across MLB. 
    
With so many big names off the market, all eyes are on Dozier and the Twins for the time being. And as it turns out, Minnesota may be more motivated to deal him than initially believed. 
According to 1500 ESPN's Darren Wolfson, the Los Angeles Dodgers are "still very much in it" when it comes to the chase for Dozier. Wolfson added the St. Louis Cardinals are also "very much in it," while the Washington Nationals and San Francisco Giants "remain in dialogue." 
Interest in Dozier, of course, is not a surprise. 
The 29-year-old put together a stellar 2016 campaign that saw him bat a career-best .268, smash 42 home runs and notch 99 RBI. Those 42 dingers were the most all-time by an American League second baseman, per CBSSports.com's Mike Axisa, and they evidently made several National League contenders take notice.
Chief among that group is the Cardinals, who represent a logical landing spot for the 2015 All-Star.  
"The Cardinals spent big to sign Dexter Fowler, and they were linked to Justin Turner before he agreed to re-sign with Los Angeles, so it's not [surprising] to hear they're in on Dozier," Axisa wrote. "St. Louis clearly wants another middle-of-the-order power bat and Dozier qualifies."
Regardless of which team comes out on top in the chase for Dozier, one thing is clear: The Twins are intent on maximizing return value for the rising star before he becomes an unrestricted free agent following the 2018 season. 
     

The Oakland A's don't appear thrilled with their situation at second base in the short term, and executive vice president of baseball operations Billy Beane has disclosed as much.
"It's a concern," Beane said, per CSN Bay Area's Joe Stiglich. "Long term, I think we feel like we have some options that probably aren’t quite ready yet. I think we prefer not to rush those options."
And while Jed Lowrie has proved his worth in the past, it seems the A's could look to ship him out of the Bay Area if they're able to show teams he has recovered fully from August's left foot surgery. 
"It’s believed they've at least gauged trade interest for him this winter, though his physical status could make it tougher to pull off a deal," Stiglich wrote. "He’s in the final season of a three-year deal that will pay him $6.5 million in 2017."
Dealing Lowrie over the offseason may not be particularly easy since interested parties will want evidence he's able to stay healthy once he returns to the diamond, but this is a situation worth monitoring as the spring approaches. 
    
Seattle Mariners starting pitchers ranked fourth in the American League with a 4.25 ERA last season, but the team's front office isn't content just yet. 
According to the Seattle Times' Ryan Divish, "A baseball source said the Mariners tried to work a deal for Rays lefty Drew Smyly during the winter meetings."
Divish added the following regarding Tampa Bay's motivations behind a potential deal involving Smyly: "Tampa seems more inclined to part with Smyly since he’s projected to make $6.8 million in his third year of arbitration and is a free agent after the 2018 season."
It remains unclear what the Mariners would part with to try and pry Smyly from the Rays, but there's no denying he'd be a quality pickup for a franchise looking to make its first postseason appearance since 2001. 
The 27-year-old southpaw owns a 3.74 lifetime ERA, and his mark of 8.7 strikeouts per nine innings would bolster the back end of a Mariners rotation that already boasts Felix Hernandez, Hisashi Iwakuma and James Paxton. 
    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com. 

Next year will soon be here, but the 2017 Major League Baseball playoffs are so far off that they might as well be in a whole 'nother year. You might be thinking it's too soon to go there.
Or is it?
The 2016-17 offseason still has some boxes to check, including homes for free agents like Mark Trumbo and Jose Bautista. But most of the big names on the open market have already found homes. There have been some blockbuster trades as well.
We thus know where most key pieces fit, making it safe to pretend like the offseason is over and call some early shots for the 2017 postseason. Let's cut this introduction and get on with it.
    
American League

AL East Champions: Boston Red Sox
With most of a 93-win team carrying over from 2016 to 2017, the Red Sox didn't need to do anything big this offseason to be the team to beat in the 2017 AL East race.
Instead, they went all-in.
Minor moves for first baseman Mitch Moreland and reliever Tyler Thornburg rounded out the team's depth. The blockbuster trade for lefty ace Chris Sale, meanwhile, was the Red Sox's upside move. They now have a starting rotation headlined by him and Cy Young winners Rick Porcello and David Price. 

Of course, the Red Sox have a David Ortiz-sized hole in their lineup after Big Papi's retirement. But Sale's arrival should mean they won't need as much offense in 2017.
And even if they do, their lineup should be up to the challenge. Moreland's arrival will keep Hanley Ramirez fresh at designated hitter, and there's all sorts of upside in the Red Sox's young Killer B's: Mookie Betts, Xander Bogaerts, Jackie Bradley Jr. and Andrew Benintendi.
Elsewhere in the AL East, it's hard to tell who's supposed to be Boston's primary challenger. The Toronto Blue Jays and Baltimore Orioles are missing key pieces from the 2016 rosters. The New York Yankees and Tampa Bay Rays are teams in transition.
    
AL Central Champions: Cleveland Indians
With the major difference being that they darn near won the World Series, the Cleveland Indians were in a similar position as the Red Sox heading into the winter. They didn't need to do anything big to carry over as favorites in the AL Central.
Instead, they signed Edwin Encarnacion on a three-year contract last week. With a .912 OPS and 193 home runs since 2012, he's an easy upgrade over Mike Napoli in the heart of Cleveland's batting order.

That's the only upgrade Cleveland needed to make. It had holes elsewhere at the end of 2016, but that was mostly due to injuries that should be healed in 2017.
Michael Brantley will be back in the outfield, and Carlos Carrasco and Danny Salazar will be back in the starting rotation. That's three All-Star-caliber players returning to the fold. Having Andrew Miller, acquired at the 2016 trade deadline, back for a full year will also help.
The concern is a possible hangover after playing so deep into the 2016 postseason. Miller and Corey Kluber are most likely to feel it, as manager Terry Francona asked the world of them last October.
On paper, though, the Indians look more than capable of beating last year's 94 wins. The same can't be said of any other team in the AL Central. Only the Detroit Tigers can match Cleveland's star power, and most of their stars are too long in the tooth to count on.
    
AL West Champions: Houston Astros
Finally, a division trophy that should change hands in 2017. 
The Texas Rangers won the AL West in 2016 but have hemorrhaged more talent than they've gained this winter. The Houston Astros have done the opposite, taking an 84-win roster and fitting it with the nuts and bolts it needed.
Houston needed to lengthen out a lineup that relied too heavily on Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa, George Springer and Evan Gattis in 2016. So, Josh Reddick and Carlos Beltran were signed on free-agent contracts, and Brian McCann was brought in on a trade.

The Astros will also have former top prospect Alex Bregman and Cuban sensation Yulieski Gurriel in their lineup for the whole year in 2017. After finishing in the middle of the pack in the AL in runs (eighth) and OPS (ninth) in 2016, there's a good chance the Astros will have an elite offense.
Their starting pitching staff is less of a sure thing. Charlie Morton might not be much of an upgrade over Doug Fister, and the trio of Dallas Keuchel, Collin McHugh and Lance McCullers have performance and durability questions to answer.
However, even more of the same would be good enough. The Astros finished fifth in the AL in ERA in 2016 despite their starting rotation issues. This was in part thanks to a bullpen that was quietly elite.
There could be as many as three other contenders in the AL West in 2017, but none match the legit championship aspirations of the Astros. Sports Illustrated could be right about them after all.
   
AL Wild Cards: Los Angeles Angels and Texas Rangers
Neither of this year's two AL wild cards, the Blue Jays and Orioles, are better now than they were before. The same goes for the Yankees and Tigers. The Kansas City Royals are geared up for a last hurrah, but their homegrown core is no longer surrounded by good depth.
This sets up the AL West to be the primary battleground for the 2017 AL wild-card race, with the main combatants being the Rangers, Los Angeles Angels and Seattle Mariners.
The Angels might seem like the odd team out after losing 88 games in 2016. But they've put some nice pieces alongside MVP Mike Trout this winter. Corinne Landrey of FanGraphs wrote about how the Angels targeted run prevention by going for Cameron Maybin, Danny Espinosa and Martin Maldonado. They will also be helped by Garrett Richards, Tyler Skaggs and Matt Shoemaker coming back healthy.
The Mariners have a star-studded offense but are lacking depth around it. The Rangers have a depth question in their starting rotation, but they have just the counterbalances for it.
Cole Hamels and Yu Darvish are an excellent one-two punch, and they'll be backed by a multitalented lineup and a deep bullpen. The Rangers may not win 95 games again, but they won't fall far enough to miss out on a third straight postseason.
    
National League

NL East Champions: Washington Nationals
The 2016 NL East race had a chance to be the National League's best. Instead, the Washington Nationals won it handily over the New York Mets. 
Expect more of the same in 2017.
While the Mets face questions about the health of their rotation and who the heck will play center field, the Nationals have all their big bases covered. The key was acquiring Adam Eaton to play center field, which freed up young phenom Trea Turner to go back to shortstop and set the Nationals up for a dynamic top-of-the-order duo.

"You got Turner and Eaton [at the top of the lineup], fairly similar style of play," catcher Derek Norris, another new addition, told Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post. "They’re scrappy, they get on base. They steal bags. They play great defense. That’s kind of what I envision."
Turner and Eaton will be setting the table for Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy, Anthony Rendon and Jayson Werth. That's a scary proposition under any circumstances. It'll be something else entirely if Harper recaptures his MVP form from 2015.
The Nationals are also returning pretty much everyone from a pitching staff that finished second in the NL in ERA in 2016, including staff aces Max Scherzer and Stephen Strasburg. The one exception is closer Mark Melancon. But new closers pop up all the time, and the Nats have two good in-house options in Shawn Kelley and Blake Treinen.
In all, there are no big reasons to believe the Nationals won't match or beat their 95 wins from 2016.
    
NL Central Champions: Chicago Cubs
Sorry to go with such an obvious pick, but...man, the Chicago Cubs are just really good.
When we last saw them, they were winning 103 games in the regular season before snapping a 108-year championship drought with a dramatic comeback in the World Series. That'll do as far as seasons go, and there was never any real threat of the magic going away this winter.

The Cubs did lose Dexter Fowler from center field and Aroldis Chapman from their closer spot. But Fowler should be replaced in the aggregate, defensively by Albert Almora and offensively by a healthy Kyle Schwarber. To fill Chapman's shoes, the Cubs traded for Wade Davis, who was baseball's most dominant reliever in 2014 and 2015.
Otherwise, the gang's all back for 2017. It'll still be Jon Lester and Jake Arrieta atop the rotation. It'll still be Kris Bryant, Anthony Rizzo and Ben Zobrist in the heart of the lineup. It'll still be Addison Russell and Javier Baez turning double plays up the middle. It'll still be Joe Maddon in the manager's chair.
Like with Cleveland, there is the possibility of a World Series hangover overtaking the Cubs. But the worst that might do is knock them down from 103 wins to 95 or so, which should still be plenty to win an NL Central race that doesn't feature another elite team.
    
NL West Champions: Los Angeles Dodgers
The Los Angeles Dodgers are an incomplete team. They don't have a second baseman. Their outfield and pitching depth charts are complex math problems.
And yet they're no worse than the team that won 91 games and a fourth straight NL West title in 2016.
There was a distinct possibility that the Dodgers would get a lot worse. They dodged that bullet by re-signing Justin Turner to play third base and Rich Hill and Kenley Jansen to help anchor their starting rotation and bullpen.

The various holes the Dodgers still have do stand out. But you can also look at them and see plenty to like.
On offense, the core of their lineup is populated by stable veterans Turner, Adrian Gonzalez and Yasmani Grandal and young guns in Corey Seager and Joc Pederson who might still have some untapped upside.
On the mound, Clayton Kershaw and Hill lead a stable of starters that's as deep as any in the league. Not to be lost in the shuffle is Julio Urias, the 20-year-old lefty who's ready for the next step.
The San Francisco Giants will give the Dodgers a run in 2017. But theirs is a top-heavy roster wherein the role players alongside the scrubs offer little upside.
    
NL Wild Cards: San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals
Picking up where we just left off, the Giants should have no trouble nabbing a wild-card berth as a consolation prize.
They're returning basically the same team that won 87 games in 2016, led by excellent pitching performances by Madison Bumgarner and Johnny Cueto and well-rounded performances from Buster Posey, Brandon Belt and Brandon Crawford. The difference now is that they have a real closer. Melancon should keep the blown-save problem that plagued the Giants in 2016 at bay in 2017.
After the Giants, it's the Mets who have the most upside in the 2017 NL wild-card race. But they also have too much downside to be trusted. Jacob deGrom, Steven Matz and Matt Harvey are all coming off surgeries, and they don't figure to get much help from a lousy defense.
The Pittsburgh Pirates and St. Louis Cardinals are the two teams most likely to benefit from the Mets falling short of expectations. The Cardinals don't have as many potential pitfalls as the Pirates. While there are real questions in Pittsburgh's pitching staff, the Cardinals answered the one big question they had by stealing Fowler from the Cubs.
At any rate, there are predictions for all 10 playoff teams for the 2017 MLB season. Now we find out if they can withstand 10 months of general baseball craziness.
    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. 


The week between Christmas and New Year's Day is typically a quiet one in the Major League Baseball universe. General managers are spending some much-needed time away from the office with their families, more focused on assembling the toys that Santa delivered for their kids than building a roster for the 2017 season. 
Yet they can't ever fully escape their day jobs. Conversations with other GMs are assuredly taking place, providing the rumor mill with just enough speculation to satisfy ravenous fans who want to know what their favorite teams are doing to improve. 
That speculation revolves around three big names—two bats and a pitcher—who have been the focus of trade rumors for weeks. We'll delve into potential deals involving that trio of game-changing talent on the pages that follow. 
Keep in mind these proposed deals are only ideas and speculation. Unless otherwise noted, there's no indication any of them have been discussed.

Pittsburgh Gets: RHPs Sean Reid-Foley, Conner Greene and Jon Harris, C Reese McGuire
Toronto Gets: OF Andrew McCutchen 
 
Rumor/Speculation
Toronto has "kicked around" the idea of trading for Pittbsurgh outfielder Andrew McCutchen, per ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick.
 
Why It Makes Sense for Pittsburgh
This might not be the premier package the Pirates were looking for, but Pittsburgh walks away from this deal with four prospects, one of which it's familiar with.
Reese McGuire, who was traded part of the ransom Toronto demanded (along with outfielder Harold Ramirez) in the trade salary dump of Francisco Liriano last season, returns to the organization that drafted and developed him. He returns to the position of heir apparent to Francisco Cervelli in Pittsburgh.
The Pirates also snag a trio of intriguing young arms. Of the three, Sean Reid-Foley has the highest upside (No. 2 starter), while Conner Greene and Jon Harris profile as solid mid-rotation options. Greene is probably the closest to the big leagues, though all three could contribute down the stretch in 2017.
 
Why It Makes Sense for Toronto
This deal only makes sense if McCutchen is the player who hit .284 with a .852 OPS over the final two months of the regular season. If the Blue Jays are getting the guy who hit .241 with a .717 OPS, they can find that kind of production at a much cheaper price. They could simply re-sign Michael Saunders.
Assuming Toronto is getting the late-season version of McCutchen, he'll fill two needs for the club. Not only will he give the Blue Jays an everyday left fielder (he's not going to bump Kevin Pillar out of center field), but also a dynamic middle-of-the-order bat, someone who can help replace Edwin Encarnacion's production.

Chicago Gets: 1B/OF Josh Bell, LHP Steven Brault, C Elias Diaz and RHP Tyler Glasnow
Pittsburgh Gets: LHP Jose Quintana
 
Rumor/Speculation
Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe wrote that even after re-signing Ivan Nova, Pittsburgh remains in the lead to obtain Chicago White Sox ace Jose Quintana. The White Sox are believed to be looking for a Chris Sale-like package for the controllable 27-year-old.
 
Why It Makes Sense for Chicago
Chicago gets a quartet of young, controllable, MLB-ready players, including the catcher of the future it's long searched for, in exchange for Quintana, the team's most valuable remaining veteran trade chip.
It's easy to forget that Josh Bell began his career as a right fielder, a position he can take over for the White Sox until Jose Abreu's long-term future is determined. A switch-hitter with power, Bell and Yoan Moncada will ultimately make for a scary combination in the middle of Chicago's lineup.
Steven Brault and Tyler Glasnow can both step into the White Sox rotation immediately. Glasnow has the stuff and makeup to be the ace of a big league rotation in the near future, while Brault is more of an innings-eating southpaw slotted toward the end of the staff.
Defense is Elias Diaz's calling card to the majors, but the 26-year-old makes enough consistent contact to contribute offensively. A terrific game-caller with a plus throwing arm, Diaz can, at the very least, platoon with Omar Narvaez behind the plate to start the year.
 
Why It Makes Sense for Pittsburgh
Due just $15.85 million through 2018 and with affordable $10.5 million and $11.5 million team options in 2019 and 2020, respectively, Quintana has the kind of team-friendly deal that Pittsburgh can afford to take on.
Quintana would join Gerrit Cole and Nova to form an impressive trio atop Pittsburgh's rotation, with some combination of Drew Hutchison, Mitch Keller, Chad Kuhl and Jameson Taillon rounding things out. 

Minnesota Gets: RHPs Sandy Alcantara, Junior Fernandez and Luke Weaver, 2B Kolten Wong
St. Louis Gets: 2B Brian Dozier
 
Rumor/Speculation
Darren Wolfson of 1500 ESPN in Minneapolis reported that along with the Los Angeles Dodgers, the St. Louis Cardinals are "very much in it" for Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier, while the San Francisco Giants and Washington Nationals "remain in dialogue."
 
Why It Makes Sense for Minnesota
In many ways, this could be a preferable deal for the Twins than what the Dodgers could offer.
Not only does Minnesota get a front-of-the-rotation arm in Luke Weaver, but also an immediate replacement for Dozier in Kolten Wong, who has big league experience, still has significant upside and is signed to a team-friendly deal that pays him $24.25 million through 2020 with a $12.5 million team option for 2021.
Really, Wong isn't all that dissimilar from Dozier. While he's yet to enjoy his breakout season, the 26-year-old has plenty of pop in his bat and enough speed to cause problems when he gets on base. Wong, however, has a chance to hit for average as well, something that has eluded Dozier so far.
Of course, that's not all the Twins get, as Sandy Alcantara and Junior Fernandez join the organization. Both have electric fastballs and a legitimate chance to start, but either one could find his development accelerated with a move to the bullpen. Fernandez, 19, has the higher ceiling as a potential ace.
 
Why It Makes Sense for St. Louis
Sure, his right-handed bat does nothing to bring balance to a lineup that's already heavy on righties, and the Cardinals, who led the National League with 225 home runs in 2016, don't necessarily need more pop in the lineup.
While Wong might be the better player over the long term, Dozier is the superior talent today and can help the Cardinals remain a perennial contender.
 
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

Starting in center field for the New York Mets...Andrew McCutchen.
Your reaction to that sentence—assuming you're a Mets fan—likely depends on your feelings about risk versus reward. Because, boy, does McCutchen offer plenty of both.
McCutchen is a member of the Pittsburgh Pirates as of this writing. His name has churned through the rumor mill this offseason, however, with the Washington Nationals and Toronto Blue Jays among his reported suitors. 
After the winter meetings, Pirates general manager Neal Huntington expressed a desire to keep McCutchen in black and yellow.
"Our intent coming in here was to have Andrew McCutchen in our lineup going forward. No one changed that," Huntington said, per MLB.com's Adam Berry. "It's unlikely that someone changes that going forward. We're not going to close the door, but we're not going to be making calls."
There's wiggle room in that statement. McCutchen may not be on the clearance shelf, but he's available for the right price.
The Mets have spoken with Pittsburgh about McCutchen at a "preliminary level," as Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported. 

There's no indication those talks have advanced past the tire-kicking stage, but it's worth exploring whether it would be a prudent move for New York.
On the reward side, McCutchen is a 30-year-old former National League MVP and five-time All-Star who accumulated 27.9 WAR between 2012 and 2015, second only to Mike Trout by FanGraphs' measure. 
He's also not a budget-buster, as he's due $14 million next season with a $14.5 million team option and $1 million buyout for 2018. 
If he approximates his peak production, that would be a bargain. The key word being "if."
McCutchen is coming off a disappointing season that saw him post career lows in batting average (.256), on-base percentage (.336) and slugging percentage (.430). 
Even more damningly, his defensive numbers plummeted. He posted minus-28 defensive runs saved and a minus-18.7 UZR, both career worsts.
It's not an anomalous blip, either. McCutchen's defense has been trending downward since 2013 according to the metrics. It's reasonable to ask if he's even a center fielder anymore, forget about a good one.

That's a big deal for the Amazin's, because they need a center fielder, as Rosenthal outlined:
The Mets' biggest position need is obvious.
They've got Yoenis Cespedes in left field. They've got Curtis Granderson, Jay Bruce and Michael Conforto as options in right. But their only true center fielder is Juan Lagares, whose career OPS against right-handed pitching—even after showing some improvement last season—is only .633.
To clear room for McCutchen in the outfield and on the payroll, the Mets could trade Granderson and/or Bruce, who are owed $15 million and $13 million next season, respectively. 
That leaves the question of whether McCutchen can capably patrol center, or at least rake enough to make up for his inconsistent glove work. 
Again, he's only 30. If he hits like he did as recently as 2015, he'd provide ample value for a Mets team that scored the fifth-fewest runs in baseball last season.
"I can't wait to get my feet back there on the field, get ready and show that I'm not washed up, I guess," McCutchen said, per Berry. "I'm only 30. It's not like I'm 40. And even that is possible, too—see what Papi [David Ortiz] did. Anything is possible in this game."
Norse god/staff ace Noah Syndergaard is coming off a superlative season. If at least three of Jacob deGrom, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz and Zack Wheeler return healthy and productive, the Mets' starting pitching will be elite.
Add a top-tier bat, and suddenly another NL pennant seems attainable.
Let's set aside the defensive concerns. Let's assume McCutchen will bounce back with the lumber, at least to the tune of the .283/.378/.470 slash line Steamer projects. 
What would it take for New York to get him?
A "possible deal" between Washington and Pittsburgh for McCutchen involved Lucas Giolito, the top pitching prospect in baseball according to MLB.com, as well as 2016 first-round pick Dane Dunning and a third player, per FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman. 
That means New York may need to dangle shortstop Amed Rosario, MLB.com's No. 11 overall prospect, plus a couple of high-upside ancillary pieces, assuming the Pirates' asking price hasn't budged.
That type of gut-the-farm machination makes sense if you're in full-blown win-now mode. 
The Mets aren't necessarily in that mode, though. Matt Harvey is the first of their core starting pitchers set to hit the market, and that won't happen until after the 2018 season. The same goes for closer Jeurys Familia. 
They re-upped Cespedes through 2020. There are nice young pieces on the roster, including the 23-year-old Conforto and 27-year-old catcher Travis d'Arnaud.

Mortgaging the future for the hope that McCutchen can play a passable center field, rediscover his MVP stroke and get New York over the championship finish line seems like an overreach born of desperation. 
NJ.com's Joe Giglio made the case for the Mets going all-in on McCutchen over other theoretically available outfielders such as the Kansas City Royals' Lorenzo Cain and the Colorado Rockies' Charlie Blackmon. 
New York, Giglio argued, "should take a risk and move the moon and stars [relatively speaking] for McCutchen."
It's intriguing. It has a certain ring. If you think the Mets' window is about to slam shut, it may even seem necessary.
But, boy, does it also sound like a big-time risk in the making.
           
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com, FanGraphs and MLB.com.

Each season, we are treated to a handful of out-of-nowhere breakout performances from around Major League Baseball as lesser-known players become significant contributors.
Position players like Aledmys Diaz (STL), Adam Duvall (CIN), Jake Lamb (ARI), Brad Miller (TB), Trevor Story (COL) and Jonathan Villar (MIL) were good examples this past season.
As for pitchers, Kyle Hendricks (CHC) ascended several levels to emerge as a Cy Young candidate, and starters Junior Guerra (MIL), Drew Pomeranz (SD/BOS) and Dan Straily (CIN), as well as reliever Alex Colome (TB), are also worthy of mentions.
So who will break through in 2017 and go from relative unknown to household name?
Ahead is a look at seven guys worth keeping an eye on.

2016 Stats
                  
Player Outlook
Offseason additions John Jaso and David Freese did respectable jobs holding down the first base position for the Pittsburgh Pirates last season, and both will return in 2017.
Neither figures to stand in the way of Josh Bell, though.
A top-15 talent in the 2011 draft who slipped to the second round due to signability concerns, Bell was given a $5 million bonus to forego his commitment to the University of Texas, a record for a player taken outside of the first round.
While his in-game power has been somewhat slow to develop, all the tools are present for him to be an impact, middle-of-the-order bat in Pittsburgh, and he has little left to prove in the minors.
The then-23-year-old kicked off his MLB career with a bang last July, singling in his first career plate appearance and then launching a pinch-hit grand slam in his second trip to the plate.
He returned in late August and saw semi-regular playing time down the stretch while splitting his time between first base and right field.
With 128 at-bats to his credit, he'll still be rookie-eligible heading into 2017, and with a chance to win a starting job out of camp, he belongs alongside Atlanta Braves shortstop Dansby Swanson as a co-favorite to take home National League Rookie of the Year honors.

2016 Stats
                  
Player Outlook
Chris Devenski may not be a proven commodity, but he's capable of being a real X-factor for the Houston Astros.
Throwing primarily out of the bullpen as a rookie last season, Devenski pitched to a 2.16 ERA and 0.91 WHIP over 108.1 innings of work to earn a fourth-place finish in American League Rookie of the Year voting.
He did make five starts along with his 43 relief appearances, posting a 4.01 ERA and 1.26 WHIP during his time in the rotation. However, those numbers were skewed by one rough outing on May 15 (2.0 IP, 5 H, 6 ER), and he pitched well in his four other starts.
With a solid four-pitch repertoire and the durability to stretch well beyond his inning total from a year ago, the Astros are set to give Devenski a long look for a rotation spot this spring.
"Devenski's going to have value for us one way or another, and he's going to be a multi-inning pitcher one way or another," general manager Jeff Luhnow told Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle. "Whether it's two or five or seven (innings), that remains to be seen. It kind of depends how the rest of our rotation shakes out."
Whether he wins a starting job or finds himself in the Andrew Miller role as a multi-inning fireman, look for Devenski to be a key piece of the puzzle on an Astros team with legitimate expectations for the upcoming season.

2016 Stats
                  
Player Outlook
Shortstop Jean Segura was the marquee name joining the Seattle Mariners in the blockbuster deal that sent Taijuan Walker and Ketel Marte to the Arizona Diamondbacks earlier this offseason.
He wasn't the only potential impact player the M's acquired, though.
Outfielder Mitch Haniger was also part of that deal, and it appears he'll have a legitimate shot at winning a starting job in the Seattle outfield this spring.
"Haniger could end up being the most important player in that trade," one opposing scout told Ryan Divish of the Seattle Times.
The 26-year-old is a .290/.370/.490 career hitter over five minor league seasons, but he had never tallied more than 13 home runs in a year prior to launching 25 in 2016.
That uptick in power is what has taken him from mid-level organizational prospect to potential impact MLB player.
Leonys Martin should see regular at-bats in center field, and right field is shaping up to be a platoon of Seth Smith and Danny Valencia, leaving the left field job ripe for the taking if Haniger can beat out Ben Gamel for playing time.
Want a dark horse for AL Rookie of the Year honors? Look no further.

2016 Stats
                  
Player Outlook
Austin Hedges has the classic post-hype profile.
A top-five prospect in the San Diego Padres system four years running from 2012 to 2015 and the No. 27 prospect in baseball heading into the 2014 season, per Baseball America, Hedges arrived in the majors with a thud in 2015.
Always known more for his defensive prowess than his offensive game, the Padres' presumptive "catcher of the future" hit .168/.215/.248 with 38 strikeouts in 152 plate appearances in his first taste of MLB action and was promptly shipped back to Triple-A to start the 2016 campaign.
Then a crazy thing happened last summer—he started to hit.
A lot.
With Derek Norris and Christian Bethancourt holding things down at the MLB level and the team slipping out of contention early, the Padres had no reason to rush Hedges, and he wound up posting a .951 OPS over 334 plate appearances for a stacked Triple-A team in El Paso.
Now all signs point to him being the starting backstop after Norris was shipped to the Washington Nationals.
"I think I'm extremely prepared, and I think that's what this offseason's for," Hedges told Dennis Lin of the San Diego Union-Tribune. "I've been at Petco every day, been in the weight room, talked with the guys, talked with the coaches, just trying to get on the same page. Trying to establish that role so when you get into the season everybody knows who our guys are. And I hope I am that guy. I'm ready to go."
If the 24-year-old comes anywhere close to duplicating his offensive breakout in the minors, he'll immediately be one of the best all-around catchers in the game.

2016 Stats
                    
Player Outlook
When a team finally decides to begin rebuilding and selling off veteran pieces, it often presents opportunities for complementary players on the roster to step into more prominent roles.
Case in point: Chicago White Sox setup man Nate Jones.
Veteran closer David Robertson is still on the roster, but the White Sox have little use for a high-priced bullpen arm, and there's no shortage of interest on the trade market.
If and when Robertson is moved, the door will swing open for Jones to step into the closer's role.
The 30-year-old is coming off a brilliant season in 2016 and has the stuff to shine in the ninth inning.
He tallied 28 holds with a 2.29 ERA, 0.89 WHIP, 1.9 walks per nine innings and 10.2 strikeouts per nine innings over 71 appearances last season, proving to finally be healthy after missing most of the 2014 and 2015 seasons following back surgery and Tommy John surgery.
With an average fastball velocity of 97.4 mph and a slider that opponents hit just .094 against with 66 strikeouts, per Brooks Baseball, he boasts the classic dominant two-pitch repertoire teams look for in the late innings.
A Robertson trade appears to be the lone remaining roadblock between Jones and stardom.

2016 Stats
                   
Player Outlook
Ideally, the Reds would have found a way to unload second baseman Brandon Phillips and shortstop Zack Cozart by now.
They have young middle infielders Dilson Herrera and Jose Peraza waiting in the wings, and neither of those veterans will be around beyond the 2017 season, let alone be part of the next contending Reds team.
Either way, expect Peraza to step into a more prominent role in 2017.
According to C. Trent Rosecrans of the Cincinnati Enquirer, general manager Dick Williams and manager Bryan Price are both committed to giving Peraza regular playing time during the upcoming season.
The speedy 22-year-old has earned it after a stellar offensive season while bouncing around between shortstop, second base and the outfield as a rookie.
Originally a top prospect in the Atlanta Braves organization, Peraza was traded twice in 2015, eventually landing in Cincinnati as part of the three-team deal that sent Todd Frazier to the Chicago White Sox, prospects from the White Sox to the Dodgers and more prospects from the Dodgers to the Reds.
A one-two punch of Billy Hamilton and Peraza at the top of the lineup could be shades of Juan Pierre and Luis Castillo during their heydays with the Florida Marlins.

2016 Stats
                
Player Outlook
The Kansas City Royals' homegrown pipeline has run a bit dry in recent years after churning out the likes of Salvador Perez, Eric Hosmer, Alex Gordon, Mike Moustakas, Greg Holland, Kelvin Herrera and Yordano Ventura, among others.
One name worth keeping an eye on is left-hander Matt Strahm.
A 21st-round pick in 2012, Strahm entered last season as the team's No. 8 prospect, according to Baseball America, and he quickly established himself as the team's top pitching prospect with a strong start in Double-A.
With the MLB bullpen in need of a reliable left-hander, Strahm made his debut on July 31 and wound up settling into a prominent spot in the pen with a 1.23 ERA and 12.3 K/9 over 21 appearances while tallying six holds.
Even as he was thriving out of the bullpen, the plan was always to return him to a starting role, with Rustin Dodd of the Kansas City Star reporting in August that Strahm would be competing for a rotation spot this coming spring.
For the record, Strahm doesn't seem to have a preference one way or the other regarding his role, as long as he's helping the team.
"I'll just pitch where they need me to pitch," Strahm told Dodd. "I like them both, so whichever one they see me helping the club with more."
In a rotation full of question marks behind Danny Duffy and Ian Kennedy, Strahm will have a chance to emerge as a key piece of the present and future for a Royals team at a crossroads.
                 
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs.com unless otherwise noted.
Tampa Bay Rays center fielder Kevin Kiermaier is trying something new this offseason: ice fishing. 
UNINTERRUPTED is a distributed media platform totally dedicated to athletes, fans and lovers of sport. UNINTERRUPTED is not journalism. Producing a wide range of unique, creative and captivating content, UNINTERRUPTED empowers athletes to let the world see what they see, develop their most creative ideas and tell the stories most important to them. As sports media and cultural influence continue to expand, UNINTERRUPTED is committed to the voice of athletes and the audience that wants to go deeper.

Not only are we still in the year 2016, but we also haven't even gotten past the holidays yet. Spring training is but a glimmer on the Major League Baseball horizon.
And yet, I can already make out some of the position battles people will be talking about.
While there's still plenty of hot stove wheeling and dealing for the league to take care of, enough has gone down to highlight positions that are settled and positions that are not. Let's focus our attention on the latter and preview 10 position battles that figure to be the most heated come spring training.
First, some ground rules. Position battles on contending teams carry more weight, so the list ahead consists exclusively of such battles. The rankings are unscientific but generally relate to the intrigue of the players and positions involved and the team overseeing it all.
Now then, let's take it away...

Dexter Fowler did good things in center field for the Chicago Cubs in 2015 and 2016. But he's gone now, having turned his coat and joined up with the St. Louis Cardinals.
Fowler leaving did seem like a foregone conclusion, however. The real question all along was how comfortable the defending champs would be with turning his job over to former first-rounder Albert Almora.
Not very, apparently.
"I wouldn't rule out the job being [Almora's], but I think it would be more likely that we would acquire someone to complement him and allow him to grow into the job more gradually," Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein said in November, via Carrie Muskat of MLB.com.
The solution was to sign Jon Jay, who's coming off two rough years but is also a career .287 hitter. He's low-risk insurance for Almora. Another option is to slide Jason Heyward over to center if need be.
Point being: Chicago's center field job is not so much Almora's to lose as it is his to earn. 
His glove should be up to the task, as he's widely regarded as an above-average fielder. But he'll need to show the Cubs he has the bat for the job, preferably by showing plate discipline that has thus far eluded him. He was a .290 hitter in the minors, but with only a .322 on-base percentage.

The San Francisco Giants blew all their hot stove spending money on Mark Melancon. That means no money to re-sign Angel Pagan to play left field, and maybe no money to trade for J.D. Martinez either.
So for now, the position belongs to the kids: Jarrett Parker and Mac Williamson.
Now, I say "kids" because they're not old. But at 27 and 26, respectively, they're not young either. It's no wonder the Giants are only half-committed to giving Parker and Williamson their shot.
"They're not getting any younger and they deserve an opportunity," Giants general manager Bobby Evans told Alex Pavlovic of CSN Bay Area. "But we also are not going to give them the jobs. They have to come out there and earn them and there will be competition and other options."
This also isn't an either/or battle. The left-handed-hitting Parker owns a .942 OPS against right-handers in the majors. Williamson is a right-handed swinger with a solid .722 OPS against southpaws. They profile as a decent platoon tandem.
Rather, the battle here is between Parker and Williamson and any better options that might be staring the Giants in the face this spring. Martinez could be one of them, and there could also be solid options still floating on the open market.

WARNING: This is subject to change. The Washington Nationals haven't signed or traded for a proven closer to replace Melancon yet, but it could only be a matter of time before they do.
But as Chelsea Janes covered at the Washington Post, an uncertain closer situation is nothing new for the Nats. If they don't mind living with the status quo, they'll move ahead and try to find an answer in house.
There's plenty of support on the internet for Shawn Kelley to fill Melancon's shoes, and for good reasons. He's always been a good strikeout pitcher, and is now coming off a 2016 season in which he had an outstanding 7.27 strikeout-to-walk ratio to go with his 2.64 ERA.
Also in the mix is Blake Treinen. He doesn't have Kelley's control or ability to miss bats, but he does limit damage with a mid-90s sinker that keeps his infielders busy. His career ground-ball percentage is over 60 and rising every year.
These are two good options for the vacant role. And while neither of them is anything close to a proven closer, here's your periodic reminder that anyone can become a proven closer.
Just within the last couple of years, Zach Britton, Wade Davis and Jeurys Familia became proven closers basically overnight. It's a job few guys do, but also a job anybody can do.

In the last few months, the Texas Rangers have lost Prince Fielder to an early retirement and Mitch Moreland and Carlos Beltran to free agency.
This sure sounds like an excuse to splurge on a free-agent slugger. But for now, the Rangers seem content to issue at-bats at first base and designated hitter to a ragtag group of in-house options.
Jeff Wilson of the Fort Worth Star-Telegram characterized it as a three-way battle between Ryan Rua, Joey Gallo and Jurickson Profar. The last two names ring all the bells due to their former status as elite prospects, but both face challenges.
With a swing-and-miss problem that's no longer even a small secret, Gallo may not be ready yet. Texas GM Jon Daniels told Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News that Gallo would ideally get "a little more time" in the minors to start 2017.
Profar, for his part, is a natural shortstop with limited experience at first base. His 184 games in the majors have also been a roller-coaster ride at the plate.
But while Profar's iffy fit and Gallo's questionable readiness would seem to give Rua the inside track at regular at-bats, he's no prize himself. With just a .712 career OPS and non-legendary defensive skills, all he has over Gallo and Profar is experience and some semblance of consistency. Not difficult things to overcome.

In quick succession, the New York Yankees traded Beltran and said goodbye to Alex Rodriguez and Mark Teixeira as they went into retirement.
That left a DH hole to fill, but the Yankees have since taken care of that by signing Matt Holliday. At first base and right field, they're now going to find out if the kids are alright. Greg Bird, Tyler Austin, Rob Refsnyder and Aaron Judge are all in play for regular playing time in 2017.
The Yankees' perfect-world scenario involves handing first base to Bird and right field to Judge. The former was a fast-rising prospect who debuted with an .871 OPS in 2015. The latter currently checks in at No. 22 on MLB.com's prospect rankings.
However, these two aren't sure things. Bird is coming off shoulder surgery that sidelined him for all of 2016. Judge is coming off a rough introduction to the majors in which he posted a .608 OPS in 27 games.
Bird could thus be pushed by Austin and Refsnyder, two well-regarded young talents in their own right, at first base. They also have the versatility to push Judge for playing time in right field, with 27-year-old Aaron Hicks looming as a threat to ascend from a projected fourth outfielder role.
Basically, the only youngster with a set job in New York's lineup is Gary Sanchez behind the plate. The others will duke it out.

The Los Angeles Dodgers lost Josh Reddick to free agency, but they haven't yet ditched the outfield surplus that has been following them like Michael Myers after Jamie Lee Curtis.
After putting up an .847 OPS with 25 home runs in 2016, Joc Pederson is safe in center field. He'll be platooned against left-handers, but there will be a right-hander on the mound more often than not.
The corner outfield spots are another matter. Yasiel Puig is still an iffy candidate to play every day, so that leaves time in left field and right field up for grabs between him, Andre Ethier, Andrew Toles, Trayce Thompson and Scott Van Slyke.
The Dodgers won't commit to an everyday player in either spot. But the pecking order of their platoons will have to come into focus this spring. Ethier and Toles will jockey for playing time against right-handers. Puig, Thompson and Van Slyke will do the same for playing time against left-handers.
This is assuming that the Dodgers are even committed to moving ahead with what they have. They might not be, so the in-house options will also be fighting to keep two job openings turning into one or even zero.

The Boston Red Sox began the winter with lots of depth at third base. But then they traded Travis Shaw and stud prospect Yoan Moncada and the thought became clear...
Holy moly, they're handing the job to Pablo Sandoval, aren't they?
Sure seems that way. The former Giants All-Star and World Series MVP is now No. 1 on Boston's third base depth chart. That's a risky proposition, given his terrible Red Sox debut in 2015 and the shoulder surgery that ended his 2016 season early.
At least Sandoval, 30, won't take up as much space in the dugout. As Dayn Perry chronicled at CBSSports.com, the offseason has brought update after update on Sandoval's much-improved physical condition. Meanwhile, his big boss sounds optimistic.
"One of the keys for us is going to be Panda," Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski told Jesse Yomtov of USA Today. "That's not to put it all on him, but here's a left-handed bat who is a proven guy and has every opportunity to make a major impact on our team this year."
Still, Sandoval will at least be battling heightened expectations when he takes the field this spring. If he doesn't own that battle, the Red Sox have the option of choosing Brock Holt's stability at third base rather than Sandoval's upside.

Every team in the majors will need to figure out the back end of their starting rotation in spring training. Most of the competitions aren't even worth talking about.
This one is.
The Red Sox did trade Clay Buchholz this week, and Paul Swydan of FanGraphs is right about that bringing more clarity to their rotation situation. But there are still two open spots behind the vaunted trio of Chris Sale, David Price and Rick Porcello, and Boston's three options aren't the standard back-end rotation fare.
One contestant is left-hander Drew Pomeranz, a 2016 All-Star with a nasty curveball. Another is right-hander Steven Wright, another 2016 All-Star with a GIF-able knuckleball. The other is Eduardo Rodriguez, a former top prospect with a mid-90s fastball.
These are three really good options, and right now the Red Sox aren't leaning in any particular directions for the final two spots. Dombrowski told Bill Chastain of MLB.com that the club would "just sort of sort through that as we go through."
Another thing to keep in mind: The Red Sox's starting pitching excess is a nice thing for them to have in market devoid of free-agent pitching talent. Another trade is highly unlikely, but not impossible.

When the New York Mets re-signed Yoenis Cespedes, they retained the power hitter they really couldn't afford to lose.
Of course, they also added another corner outfield type to an outfield loaded with corner outfield types. The Mets have Cespedes, Curtis Granderson, Jay Bruce and Michael Conforto lined up for regular action in 2017, none of whom is a true center fielder.
The Mets could solve this by making a few moves. But as Ken Rosenthal broke down at Fox Sports, doing so is no picnic. They'd have to move one or several of their incumbent outfielders, and Conforto may be the only one teams want. And simply by backing themselves into the corner they're in now, they haven't helped their leverage with teams that have center fielders to trade.
If the situation isn't resolved via trade, somebody in the Cespedes-Granderson-Bruce-Conforto circle is going to have to fall on the sword of being at least a semi-everyday center fielder.
What would be really interesting is if Juan Lagares gets hot this spring and re-establishes his bat to go along with his excellent glove. That would turn a cluster-mess into a...Well, what's above a cluster-mess?
Not sure. Maybe we'll find out.

At the outset of the winter meetings, it sure seemed like the Pittsburgh Pirates were this close to trading Andrew McCutchen and moving All-Star left fielder Starling Marte to center field.
But now things are awkward. McCutchen wasn't traded, and every indication is that the Pirates know they missed their window. But they're also not committed to keeping him in center field. Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported they want to discuss a possible move to left field or right field.
This is a defensible idea after the former National League MVP posted minus-28 defensive runs saved in 2016. But Mike Petriello of MLB.com wrote about how McCutchen may have been hurt by his positioning more than by aging athleticism. Also, the man himself hasn't been keen on moving.
"I don't see myself needing to move. I don't feel like I'm slowing down and hurting my team because of where I play," McCutchen told Adam Berry of MLB.com in October. "Playing center field is one thing, but being a leader out there is another. That's something we need."
It's unclear how the Pirates are going to play this situation. If they put their foot down and swap McCutchen and Marte before spring training, there will be no competition.
But if they throw McCutchen a bone and give him a chance to prove he deserves to stay in center field, two All-Stars will have their eyes on the same important position. Fun times.
 
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked.

The Los Angeles Angels have added free agent Ben Revere to their outfield mix for 2017.  
ESPN's Buster Olney and the Los Angeles Times' Mike DiGiovanna reported Revere's agreement with the Angels. Olney wrote Revere's deal is for one year and $4 million.
The Angels will be hoping Revere is due for a bounce-back season in 2017. The 28-year-old never got going last season with the Washington Nationals, suffering an oblique injury on Opening Day that kept him out until May 6. He wound up losing his starting spot to Trea Turner in the second half. 
Revere's performance when he did play was lacking. He hit just .217/.260/.300 in 103 games with an OPS more than 100 points below his career mark (.662), per Baseball-Reference.com. 
Despite his own numbers, Revere never caused problems for the Nationals. He told Jorge Castillo of the Washington Post in August that winning was all he focused on:
I don’t want to be the teammate pouting and everything. I want to do everything I can to be a good teammate, help him out in the outfield and feeling good at the plate. The main thing now for me to do is just anything I can to help this team win a championship. Get to the playoffs, win a championship. There will be some times when they may need me. If that case comes, I got to be ready.
The poor offensive numbers caused Revere's stock to plummet heading into free agency, though there are reasons to believe he can be successful for the Angels in 2017. 
Age isn't a problem for Revere, who is among the youngest free agents this offseason with other outfielders like Yoenis Cespedes and Dexter Fowler over the age of 30. He is just one year removed from posting a .306/.342/.377 slash line in 152 games for the Philadelphia Phillies and Toronto Blue Jays. 
Revere does have to prove his injury woes are a thing of the past. He's only reached the 150-game mark twice in six full MLB seasons. 
The Angels can plug Revere into a corner spot with Mike Trout entrenched in center, as he has played all three positions in his career. His ability to get on base and set the table for run producers like Trout, C.J. Cron and Kole Calhoun in the middle of the lineup gives Los Angeles' lineup more depth. 
There are plenty of questions for Revere to answer on this contract, but a successful season for the Angels would give him a chance to rebuild his value and hit free agency next winter at the age of 29. It's a smart short-term investment for both the player and team. 

The Atlanta Braves and outfielder Ender Inciarte agreed to a five-year, $30.5 million extension Friday that carries a club option for a sixth year.
"We are thrilled to announce an extension for Ender," Braves general manager John Coppolella said in a statement. "We feel that he's the best defensive center fielder in baseball and one of the best leadoff hitters in the game. Ender brings so much to our club, on and off the field, and we are happy to have him under club control for at least the next six years."
Jon Heyman of Today's Knuckleball reported the financial terms of the deal. Inciarte and the Braves were scheduled to head to salary arbitration if a deal was not completed.
Inciarte, 26, hit .291/.351/.381 with three home runs and 29 runs batted in last season. He came to Atlanta last winter with shortstop Dansby Swanson as part of the package the Arizona Diamondbacks sent back for right-hander Shelby Miller.
While his offensive numbers are middling, Inciarte has developed a reputation as one of the best defensive outfielders in baseball. He won his first Gold Glove in 2016 on the back of a series of spectacular catches that drew him comparisons to former Braves great Andruw Jones.
"It seemed like before, he had trouble getting jumps on balls and always made up for it with his speed," former Diamondbacks teammate Brad Ziegler told Mark Simon of ESPN.com. "But now he's gotten really good at reading the ball off the bat, and it's put him on another level. He's become a star player. He's a lot better at deciding when to go for the risky play. He's really special to watch."
FanGraphs' defensive metrics ranked Inciarte third among qualifying center fielders last season. Kevin Pillar and Adam Eaton both played more games than Inciarte's 131, so the Braves star might have been able to challenge both if it weren't for an early stint on the disabled list.
Inciarte also began showing signs of developing into a reliable hitter toward the top of the order. He hit for a solid average over his two years in Arizona (.292), but 2016 was the first sign he was beginning to learn patience at the plate. After drawing just 51 walks during his first two MLB seasons, Inciarte set a career high with 45 in 2016.
Even if he never develops much pop—13 home runs in 381 games indicates it's unlikely—Inciarte is a gem in what could become one of the best trades in Braves history.
     
Follow Tyler Conway (@jtylerconway) on Twitter.

The MLB offseason is still far from over, but most of the big dominoes have already fallen on another busy winter.
Mark Trumbo, Jose Bautista, Mike Napoli, Matt Wieters and Michael Saunders headline what's left of the position-player market, while Jason Hammel is the top unsigned starter and Neftali Feliz, Jerry Blevins, Boone Logan and Greg Holland are all capable of helping at the back of a bullpen.
In other words, there is still a lot to be done before pitchers and catchers report for spring training, but already teams may be left with a few regrets on how this winter has played out.
As we stand two months removed from the World Series, let's take a look at all 30 teams' biggest missed opportunity so far this offseason.
In some cases it's not too late to avoid regret, whether it's signing a still-available free agent, selling high on a trade chip or locking up a key player with an extension.
For other teams, like those that were targeting Chris Sale on the trade market or Edwin Encarnacion in free agency, the damage is already done.

The Arizona Diamondbacks have one of the worst farm systems in baseball, due in part to last offseason's ill-advised trade for Shelby Miller that cost them shortstop Dansby Swanson, among others.
Adding Taijuan Walker in a trade with the Seattle Mariners has given them an abundance of starting pitching options for the upcoming season. Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported that the team expects interest in controllable arms like Archie Bradley, Patrick Corbin, Miller and Robbie Ray to pick up as a result.
They'd be selling low on Corbin and Miller at this point and really don't know what they have yet in Bradley, but flipping Ray could make sense at the right price.
The 25-year-old was quietly the team's best pitcher in 2016.
His 4.90 ERA and 1.47 WHIP over 174.1 innings don't look great on the surface, but it came with a 3.76 FIP and 218 strikeouts to rank fourth in the NL.
With team control through the 2020 season, it's not out of the question to think the D-backs could land a significant prospect haul if they made Ray readily available.

The Atlanta Braves moved quickly to fill out their starting rotation this offseason, signing veterans Bartolo Colon and R.A. Dickey and landing bounce-back candidate Jaime Garcia in a trade with the St. Louis Cardinals.
They had their eyes on a significantly bigger prize at one point.
With the end of a lengthy rebuild now in sight, the Braves were very much in the mix to land Chicago White Sox ace Chris Sale before he eventually went to the Boston Red Sox.
According to Joel Sherman of the New York Post, the team was unwilling to part with shortstop Dansby Swanson in trade talks, which is understandable as he figures to be a key piece of the team's future plans in his own right.
However, the Braves were willing to move middle infielder Ozzie Albies as part of a bigger package. With one of the deepest farm systems in baseball, they had the pieces to put together a competitive offer.
In the end, they simply couldn't compete with the Red Sox's offer of Yoan Moncada and Michael Kopech without including Swanson.

During the general manager meetings in early November, Brittany Ghiroli of MLB.com reported the Baltimore Orioles were seeking a left-handed-hitting outfielder to fill one of the corner vacancies.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network took it one step further and named Josh Reddick as a specific target for the team as it sought a defensive upgrade over slugger Mark Trumbo.
Reddick looked like the perfect fit as a former 30-homer bat with a plus glove and a mid-level asking price, but the Orioles didn't move quick enough and he wound up signing with the Houston Astros on a four-year, $52 million deal.
Fast-forward nearly two months, and the Orioles are still looking for corner outfield help as they kick the tires on Colby Rasmus, per Roch Kubatko of MASNsports.com, in a dwindling market.

The Boston Red Sox had a clear No. 1 target in mind when it came to replacing David Ortiz.
"Heard from a major league source who characterized the Red Sox's interest in Carlos Beltran this way: 'They want him badly.' Might boil down to whether Beltran wants more than a one-year guarantee," wrote Scott Lauber of ESPN.com.
The market eventually developed into a three-team race between the Red Sox, New York Yankees and Astros, and Beltran wound up joining the 'Stros on a one-year, $16 million deal.
The switch-hitting veteran has a .335/.377/.555 career line in 167 plate appearances at Fenway Park and is fresh off another productive season that featured an .850 OPS with 29 home runs and 93 RBI.
Instead, the Red Sox wound up adding first baseman Mitch Moreland on a one-year, $5.5 million deal, shifting Hanley Ramirez to DH in the process.

The Chicago Cubs have done well in adding closer Wade Davis and setup man Koji Uehara to the bullpen so far this offseason, and it appears they had their sights set on another quality veteran arm.
According to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Cubs were "heavily involved" on sidearmer Brad Ziegler before he signed with the Miami Marlins on a two-year, $18 million deal.
The 37-year-old was terrific once again this past season while splitting his time between Arizona and Boston, posting a 2.25 ERA over 69 appearances with 22 saves and eight holds.
He also continued to be a ground-ball machine with a 63.3 percent rate that ranked fifth among pitchers with at least 60 innings of work and would have played really well in front of the Cubs' terrific infield defense.

There's still time for the Chicago White Sox to pull the trigger on another huge trade as plenty of teams are showing interest in left-hander Jose Quintana.
With the rebuild officially underway and the market starved for quality starting pitching, failing to move him this winter would no doubt constitute a missed opportunity.
Along with being one of the best pitchers in the AL last season when he went 13-12 with a 3.20 ERA, 1.16 WHIP and 181 strikeouts in a career-high 208 innings of work, he also boasts one of the most team-friendly deals in baseball.
The 27-year-old is owed $36.85 million over the next four years. With four consecutive 200-inning seasons under his belt, he's a safe bet to continue producing at a high level.
The Pittsburgh Pirates are the latest team making a push to acquire Quintana, per Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports, but it remains to be seen if anyone will meet the White Sox's asking price.
In talks with the Astros, they were seeking the team's top two prospects in right-hander Francis Martes and outfielder Kyle Tucker, as well as MLB starter Joe Musgrove, according to MLB reporter Peter Gammons.

The biggest issue the Cincinnati Reds have run into in their efforts to move shortstop Zack Cozart is a simple lack of teams looking to add someone at that position.
Otherwise, he likely would have already been dealt considering the best the free-agent market has to offer is the likes of Erick Aybar, Alexi Amarista, Alexei Ramirez and Stephen Drew.
Still, it makes sense for the Reds to unload Cozart for whatever they can get at this point.
The 31-year-old was nearly dealt to the Seattle Mariners at the deadline and was in the midst of a breakout season offensively at the time with a .779 OPS, 23 doubles and 15 home runs by the end of July.
He hit just .198/.274/.281 over the final two months of the season, though, missing the final two-plus weeks with a knee injury and torpedoing his trade value in the process.
With Jose Peraza pushing his way into the team's 2017 plans after a strong showing as a rookie, trading Cozart makes sense for the Reds beyond the fact that he's entering his final year of arbitration.

The Cleveland Indians entered the offseason with little to worry about as far as plugging holes, with the lone exception being the free agency of first baseman Mike Napoli.
A reunion with Napoli looked like a very real possibility shortly after the World Series wrapped up. But with the veteran looking for a multiyear deal and the Indians unwilling to go beyond one year, according to Jordan Bastian of MLB.com, the team was forced to turn its attention elsewhere.
After seemingly kicking the tires on everyone who could be labeled a "right-handed power hitter," the Indians finally went all-in on Edwin Encarnacion, signing him to a three-year, $60 million deal on Thursday night, per ESPN.com news services.
It's a huge move for a team that was arguably already better than the club we saw last October, which was without two key starters in Danny Salazar and Carlos Carrasco, as well as All-Star outfielder Michael Brantley, who was a non-factor all season.
The Red Sox briefly looked like the cream of the crop in the AL after acquiring Chris Sale, but the Encarnacion signing puts the Indians right back in that conversation.

The head-scratching decision to sign Ian Desmond to a five-year, $70 million deal led to some immediate speculation that the Colorado Rockies might be angling to move center fielder Charlie Blackmon for some pitching help.
However, nothing has developed on that front since the winter meetings wrapped up weeks ago.
"They're only trading him if they get an Adam Eaton-type deal," one league official told Jayson Stark of ESPN.com.
Considering many believe that Eaton should not even have cost an "Adam Eaton-type" return—referring to the Washington Nationals' decision to part with Lucas Giolito, Reynaldo Lopez and Dane Dunning to acquire the Chicago White Sox outfielder—it seems unlikely anyone will be willing to pay that price.
The 30-year-old Blackmon is coming off the best season of his career, and a .313/.363/.563 line away from Coors Field is a good indication that his big numbers weren't simply a result of playing half his games at altitude.
While the Eaton trade set the market for a good controllable outfielder, with the way the Rockies roster is currently built it would make sense to move Blackmon if it meant landing a quality young arm in return.

Rumors of the Tigers front office shopping veteran pieces this offseason were greatly exaggerated. That much has become abundantly clear as the offseason has rolled along and things have been deafeningly silent in Detroit.
It was always unlikely that Detroit was going to find a suitable trade package for guys like Justin Verlander and Miguel Cabrera, and a no-trade clause took the power out of the team's hands when it came to moving Ian Kinsler.
However, the fact that outfielder J.D. Martinez is still around and lefty reliever Justin Wilson has not been moved after generating significant interest at the winter meetings is a different story.
With the Kansas City Royals selling off closer Wade Davis and the White Sox kicking off their rebuild by moving Chris Sale and Adam Eaton, perhaps the Tigers saw a more favorable AL Central slate and shifted gears.
That makes sense to a point, but is this team really built to contend for a title?
With one of the thinnest farm systems in baseball and an aging core at the MLB level, at some point the focus needs to shift to acquiring young talent.

The one missing piece for the Houston Astros right now appears to be a front-line ace to lead the starting rotation.
Dallas Keuchel provided that en route to winning AL Cy Young honors in 2015 and Lance McCullers has shown some significant upside between injuries, but counting on either pitcher to front the staff is risky for a team with legitimate title hopes.
"Some believe the Astros are loading up on offense to put themselves in better position for a run at a big-time starting pitcher, and sources say the Astros are interested in Rays star right-hander Chris Archer as well as Chicago’s ace lefty Chris Sale," wrote Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
That came shortly after the team signed Carlos Beltran, capping off a busy month of November that also saw the team add Brian McCann and Josh Reddick.
Sale has since joined the Red Sox and the Tampa Bay Rays have shown no inclination that they are looking to deal Archer, leaving Jose Quintana as perhaps the Astros' best option at this point.
There's no shortage of young talent for the team to build an attractive trade package. It's simply a matter of how much it's willing to give up and if it thinks Quintana is worth his lofty asking price.

The Kansas City Royals need to do something with Danny Duffy.
The lefty began last season pitching out of the bullpen before joining the starting rotation in May and emerging as the best pitcher on a shaky staff.
Over 26 starts, he went 12-3 with a 3.56 ERA, 1.13 WHIP and 167 strikeouts in 161.2 innings, and that included an eight-inning, one-hit, 16-strikeout gem against the Rays on Aug. 1. 
The 28-year-old has a reasonable $8.2 million projected salary in his final year of arbitration before hitting the open market next offseason, making this winter the best chance for the Royals to sell high.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported that the team is "gauging interest" in Duffy at this point, but there's been no indication that they are seriously interested in moving him.
The alternative would be to lock up Duffy as a long-term piece.
The two sides began talks on a potential extension at the start of November, per Jeffrey Flanagan of MLB.com, but no further details have emerged on that front nearly two months later.
Entering the season with Duffy on the roster and set to walk at the end of the year would be a missed opportunity for a Royals team with several big roster decisions to make in the coming year.

The Los Angeles Angels have made some nice mid-level additions to the MLB roster this offseason, acquiring Danny Espinosa and Cameron Maybin to plug gaping holes at second base and in left field.
They will also benefit from a healthier starting rotation after no one on the roster topped 180 innings last season and ace Garrett Richards made just six starts.
However, it's still hard to see them as anything but a fringe contender for the upcoming season. With the consensus worst farm system in baseball, the future doesn't provide much hope for internal improvement.
That makes the idea of trading setup man Cam Bedrosian an intriguing one for a team that could use an influx of prospect talent.
Everything seemed to click for the hard-throwing Bedrosian in 2016.
He lowered his walk rate from 5.3 BB/9 over his first two seasons to 3.1 BB/9 and went on to post a 1.12 ERA, 1.09 WHIP and 11.4 K/9 with one save and seven holds over 45 appearances.
The 25-year-old is still a year removed from arbitration and under team control through the 2021 season, making him arguably the most valuable commodity on the Angels roster not named Mike Trout.
After seeing what the Philadelphia Phillies were able to get for Ken Giles last offseason and with the market exploding for quality late-inning arms, the Angels have to at least test the waters.

The Los Angeles Dodgers managed to retain their three biggest free agents in third baseman Justin Turner, starter Rich Hill and closer Kenley Jansen, but they have yet to add any significant new faces to the roster.
Second base is the biggest remaining hole on the roster, and they've been plenty active on the trade market in their search for an impact addition.
Minnesota Twins slugger Brian Dozier appears to be the top target, and the two sides have agreed that right-hander Jose De Leon would be part of the return package, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
However, they've been unable to hammer out the rest of the prospect details and things are at a "standstill" as a result.
Ian Kinsler and Logan Forsythe have also been linked to the Dodgers, per Heyman, but Kinsler has a no-trade clause and the Rays won't be quick to deal Forsythe and his two remaining years of cost-effective control.
The right-handed-hitting Dozier—who is fresh off a 42-homer season—looks like a perfect fit between lefties Corey Seager and Adrian Gonzalez in the middle of the lineup.
It's simply a matter of how much prospect talent the team is willing to part with.
Suffice to say, if bringing back Chase Utley winds up being how the team addresses the second base situation, it will be a missed opportunity.

The Miami Marlins took an interesting approach to addressing their mediocre starting rotation.
Rather than overpaying for one of the few quality starters on the market this winter or trading someone like Marcell Ozuna to land a controllable arm, the team opted instead to build up the bullpen in hopes it could prop up the staff.
Jeff Locke and Edinson Volquez were signed to fill out the starting rotation, and the team turned its attention to landing one of the market's elite closers.
Kenley Jansen quickly emerged as the top target and they made a five-year offer north of $80 million during the winter meetings, per Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports, but that wasn't enough to lure him away from the comfort of Los Angeles.
The front office did well moving on to alternative options, signing Brad Ziegler and Junichi Tazawa to join a bullpen that already features David Phelps, Kyle Barraclough and A.J. Ramos.
It's a significantly different-looking bullpen if Jansen is penciled in at the back end, though.

Acquired last offseason in a trade that received little fanfare at the time, Jonathan Villar was at best expected to serve as a stopgap option for top prospect Orlando Arcia.
Instead, he was one of the breakout stars of 2016.
The 25-year-old hit .285/.369/.457 with 38 doubles, 19 home runs, 63 RBI and 92 runs scored while leading the NL with 62 stolen bases and posting a 3.9 WAR.
The question now is whether that breakout was for real and if the Brewers would be best served selling high on him, regardless.
As it stands, Arcia is now entrenched at shortstop and both Villar and Scooter Gennett will be vying for playing time at second base.
The market for middle infielders has been admittedly slow this offseason, but Danny Espinosa was traded to the Angels and the Dodgers are still looking for second base help, so it's not like the market is completely silent.
Villar is still young enough that he can be part of the next contending team in Milwaukee, but he'll have his work cut out for him trying to duplicate his 2016 success.

The Minnesota Twins have shown zero interest in trading veteran starter Ervin Santana this offseason, and that makes zero sense.
With two years and $27 million remaining on his contract and a $14 million team option for 2019, he's a bargain in a market devoid of quality starting pitching.
The 34-year-old was quietly one of the better starters in the AL last season, going 7-11 with a 3.38 ERA, 1.22 WHIP and 149 strikeouts in 181.1 innings.
His 17 quality starts were tied for 17th in the AL, marking the seventh time in his career that he topped the 180-inning mark.
That should be worth at least a couple of quality prospects in this market, and the Twins are still in the process of building toward contention.
Given their current standing as the also-ran of the AL Central and with young starters like Jose Berrios and Stephen Gonsalves ready to push for spots in the rotation, moving Santana now makes sense on multiple levels.

With Yoenis Cespedes re-signed to a long-term deal and Neil Walker accepting his qualifying offer, the most important remaining free agent for the New York Mets is undoubtedly lefty reliever Jerry Blevins.
The 33-year-old made a career-high 73 appearances last season while logging a 2.79 ERA, 1.21 WHIP and 11.1 K/9 with two saves and 16 holds.
As Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported, the Mets are looking to add multiple relievers, including two lefties. He also specifically identified Blevins as a target, though it's fair to assume he won't come nearly as cheap this time around.
Blevins rejoined the Mets last winter on a one-year, $4 million deal, but he could use the three-year, $19 million deal that fellow lefty reliever Mike Dunn recently signed with the Colorado Rockies as a starting point in negotiations.
With several of the top free-agent lefty relievers already off the board and the Mets lacking a quality southpaw if Blevins walks, they'd be wise to pay the man and be done with it.

Outside of breaking the bank to bring back closer Aroldis Chapman, the New York Yankees appear to prefer adding veteran talent on short-term deals this winter as they look to fill out the roster without bogging down the payroll for the future.
Matt Holliday fit the bill perfectly on a one-year, $13 million contract to take over as the primary DH, but he's been the only other significant addition to this point.
While a bullpen anchored by Chapman and also featuring former All-Stars in Tyler Clippard and Dellin Betances has a chance to be a strength, you can never have too much quality relief pitching.
Enter Greg Holland.
The team was linked to Holland earlier this offseason. As he looks to rebuild his value and prove healthy after Tommy John surgery, he'll no doubt be looking for a short-term deal.
Yankees director of pro scouting Kevin Reese was in attendance at Holland's showcase earlier this offseason, according to Joel Sherman of the New York Post.
If the price is right on an incentive-laden, one-year deal, the Yankees should strike before someone else does.

We can't go the whole offseason without Billy Beane making a significant trade, right?
Closer Sean Doolittle is not a name that has been mentioned much on the trade market so far this offseason, but no one is ever untouchable when it comes to the Oakland Athletics roster.
The value of quality late-inning arms has never been higher, and Doolittle also brings a very attractive contract to the table.
The 30-year-old is owed $7.01 million over the next two seasons with a pair of option years tacked on at $6 million in 2019 and $6.5 million in 2020.
He boasts a 3.07 ERA, 0.95 WHIP and 10.5 K/9 over 231 career appearances and converted 22 of 26 save chances as the team's closer in 2014.
Injuries have been an issue, though.
Doolittle made just 12 appearances in 2015 while battling a bum shoulder and then missed another two months last summer when the same shoulder acted up.
A pair of trips to the DL last year with forearm issues didn't keep Wade Davis from being a hot commodity on the trade market, though.

The Philadelphia Phillies have money to spend, a hole to fill in right field and the need for more of a veteran presence both in the lineup and in the locker room.
It's hard not to see Jose Bautista as the perfect fit.
The market has been slow to develop for Bautista this offseason, and it doesn't appear the Toronto Blue Jays are going to go beyond a one-year deal in their efforts to bring him back, according to Jon Morosi of MLB Network.
That leaves the door wide open for the Phillies to swoop in and sign him late in the offseason when his asking price will likely begin to drop.
If he can be scooped up on something like a three-year, $54 million deal, it wouldn't hamstring the Phillies financially and could be a real boon to the development of some of their young players.

Awkward.
If you're going to make an attempt to trade the face of the franchise after he turns in the worst season of his career, you probably want to make sure you're going to get a deal done.
The Pittsburgh Pirates pushed hard to move Andrew McCutchen to the Washington Nationals leading up to the winter meetings, but the Nats eventually went a different route and acquired Adam Eaton from the White Sox.
The team then received a "nice offer of prospects" from a mystery team a couple of weeks ago, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, but declined and it now looks like McCutchen will be returning to Pittsburgh for the upcoming season.
It makes sense that the Pirates wouldn't want to sell low on the star outfielder when he could be a far more valuable trade chip come July if he bounces back.
Why shop him at all this winter, though, if you know it's unlikely anyone is going to meet your sky-high asking price?

The San Diego Padres moved quickly to dismantle the roster after coming up spectacularly short of expectations following a busy offseason ahead of the 2015 season.
The result is a team in transition, with placeholders up and down the roster and little in the way of long-term pieces at the MLB level.
The one notable exception is first baseman Wil Myers.
After missing significant time in back-to-back seasons with wrist injuries, Myers finally stayed healthy last year and the result was a .797 OPS with 29 doubles, 28 home runs, 94 RBI and 28 stolen bases.
More importantly, he produced at a high level in the pitcher's paradise that is Petco Park, hitting .306/.385/.569 with 20 doubles and 18 home runs at home.
The Padres opened extension talks with Myers at the beginning of November, according to Dennis Lin of the San Diego Union-Tribune, but nothing has been worked out to this point.
Locking the 26-year-old up long term would be a welcome move for a fanbase that just saw a roster rebuilt and then blown up over a two-year span. It's no doubt in the team's best interest as well.

The San Francisco Giants don't rely on the home run ball to win games, but adding a little more over-the-fence power certainly wouldn't hurt things.
The Giants ranked 28th in the majors with 130 home runs last season and Brandon Belt was the team leader with just 17, so adding someone like J.D. Martinez to the middle of the lineup could provide a significant shot in the arm to the offensive attack.
The issue is money, as John Shea of the San Francisco Chronicle explained:
The Mark Melancon signing pretty much ended any talk of the Giants adding another player with a big contract.
The only way the team could take on that type of player — J.D. Martinez, anybody? — is by moving a player with a similar salary, according to general manager Bobby Evans.
That sounds perfectly reasonable on the surface, but let's take a look at the numbers.
The Giants currently have a projected payroll of $184 million for the upcoming season, per Roster Resource, and Martinez carries an $11.75 million salary.
The luxury tax threshold for the upcoming season is $195 million, so that would put the Giants right up against it, but it would only be a one-year issue.
Martinez is a free agent at season's end and Matt Cain's bloated $20.833 million salary is finally coming off the books as well, so it might be worth spending a little beyond their comfort zone this offseason knowing things will return to normal next winter.

The Seattle Mariners' move to acquire Jean Segura from the Arizona Diamondbacks has a chance to be a rare win-win deal, but moving Taijuan Walker does leave the M's somewhat lacking in starting pitching depth.
Meanwhile, the Diamondbacks are now overloaded with starting pitching as Walker joins Zack Greinke, Robbie Ray, Shelby Miller, Patrick Corbin, Archie Bradley and Braden Shipley, as well as prospect Anthony Banda, in a crowded rotation picture.
Why not pad out that trade a bit more to include one of those starting pitchers?
Arizona obviously loves the upside of Walker and it's fair to assume Greinke won't be going anywhere, but buying low on someone like Corbin or giving up another significant piece to land someone like Ray could have paid off huge for Seattle.
Those are the kinds of moves you have to make when you're looking to break a 15-year postseason drought.

With Dexter Fowler signed to fill the void in center field and Brett Cecil added to bolster the relief corps, the St. Louis Cardinals don't have any significant holes left to fill this offseason.
That doesn't mean there's not still an impact move to be made, though.
The Cardinals have a lengthy history of extending their homegrown players long before they reach free agency, with Kolten Wong the most recent example.
Carlos Martinez looks like the next candidate for such an extension.
The electric right-hander joined the starting rotation in 2015 and emerged as the team's best starter this past season, going 16-9 with a 3.04 ERA, 1.22 WHIP and 174 strikeouts in 195.1 innings.
Still just 25 years old, Martinez has become an integral part of the Cardinals' core. With Adam Wainwright getting on in years and Michael Wacha struggling to stay healthy, he'll be asked to lead the staff going forward.
Martinez has a $5.3 million projected salary this coming season in his first year of arbitration; that figure is only going to climb in the years to come.
Buying out his arbitration years and a free-agent year or two seems like a good move for both sides.

The Tampa Bay Rays must capitalize on the dearth of starting pitching this winter by flipping one of their arms.
Chris Archer and Jake Odorizzi are the two most attractive arms on the staff, but neither will come cheap and it appears unlikely they'll be moved at this point.
Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times wrote the following after the winter meetings:
While teams are starting to recognize the high value the Rays see in Jake Odorizzi, that price isn't likely to be met, either.
That leaves the Rays pretty much where they were going into the meetings, most likely to trade LHP Drew Smyly or RHP Alex Cobb, albeit for a lesser return, with RHP Erasmo Ramirez next.
Smyly has two years of team control remaining and has a projected salary of $6.9 million this coming season, no small price for the cost-conscious Rays.
Cobb is entering his final year of team control and comes at a slightly lower projected price of $4 million, as he's battled injuries, missing all of 2015 and making just six starts last season.
Neither pitcher figures to bring an earth-shattering return, but given the lack of quality rotation options there won't be a better time to move either player.

The Texas Rangers have been active this offseason, signing Andrew Cashner to fill out the starting rotation and bringing back Carlos Gomez on a one-year deal to man center field.
There are still holes to fill in the lineup, though, after designated hitter Carlos Beltran and first baseman Mitch Moreland both went elsewhere in free agency.
As it stands, those holes will be filled by some combination of Jurickson Profar, Joey Gallo and Ryan Rua.
There's plenty of potential in that group, but there is also plenty of uncertainty. For a team looking to make a run at a title, that won't cut it at two premium offensive spots.
While Edwin Encarnacion looked like the ideal target before he signed with the Indians, the team still has options.
A reunion with Mike Napoli is one possibility. Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported the team's interest in him earlier this offseason.

The Toronto Blue Jays are still looking for a way to replace the production they stand to lose with the departures of Edwin Encarnacion, Jose Bautista and Michael Saunders.
Steady run producer Kendrys Morales was signed to a three-year deal to take over as the primary DH, and Steve Pearce was also added to serve as a right-handed platoon option at first base and an occasional corner outfielder.
That being said, some combination of Pearce, Ezequiel Carrera, Melvin Upton Jr. and Dalton Pompey is currently slated to man the two corner outfield spots, and they'll have a hard time matching the production of Bautista and Saunders.
The Blue Jays have never been shy about trading prospect talent for a chance to win now, and J.D. Martinez looks like the perfect target to take over as the everyday right fielder.
He's in the final year of his current contract, so it might not take as much prospect talent as you'd think to acquire him.

This might be the biggest missed opportunity so far this offseason.
The Washington Nationals looked like the favorites to land Chris Sale during the winter meetings before the Red Sox came in with an unbeatable offer headlined by Yoan Moncada and Michael Kopech.
It's clear the Nats were willing to go all-in on Sale based on what they offered.
According to Barry Svrluga of the Washington Post, the team was willing to part with highly touted outfield prospect Victor Robles as well as pitching prospects Lucas Giolito and Reynaldo Lopez.
A starting rotation headlined by Sale, Max Scherzer and Stephen Strasburg would have given the Nationals the best chance they've ever had of winning it all.
Instead, the team missed out on Sale and then pulled the trigger on a deal that reeked of desperation when they shipped Giolito, Lopez and fellow pitching prospect Dane Dunning to the White Sox for Adam Eaton.
Oh, what could have been.
 
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Projected salaries courtesy of MLB Trade Rumors. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted.

'Twas the night before the night before Christmas, and all through MLB, fanbases were stirring, from Seattle to Miami.
Some of those fanbases are stirring with giddy excitement about the possibilities for their favorite team in 2017. Others are stirring because the team they cheer for has yet to make a big splash, or perhaps—(audible gasp)—they've even taken a step backward this winter.
But we're focused on the positive this holiday season. What follows is a look at the teams whose fanbases have the most to be excited about this Christmas—and from what that excitement stems.
       
Rather than rely on a bunch of inexperienced youngsters, veterans Bartolo Colon, R.A. Dickey and Jaime Garcia now follow staff ace Julio Teheran in the rotation. Full seasons from Ender Inciarte, Matt Kemp and Dansby Swanson will bolster the lineup, which still features a perennial MVP candidate in Freddie Freeman.
The farm system is still one of baseball's best, teeming with high-end talent, including second baseman Ozzie Albies, who could easily supplant Jace Peterson at the keystone in spring training.
It'd be premature to say that the Braves are once again contenders—or that their rebuilding process is complete—but Atlanta looks like a team that can cause problems for the rest of the National League in 2017.
      
You don't replace David Ortiz—and to their credit, the Red Sox haven't tried to. Rather than sign free-agent slugger Edwin Encarnacion, a player many believed was destined to take over as the team's full-time designated hitter, Boston went in a different direction to bolster its roster.
 
Good morning, #RedSoxNation! 👋

⬇️ This guy is now on our roster. s://t.co/bW37R0qlaE
Instead of jacking home runs over the Green Monster, Chris Sale will keep the opposition from going yard at Fenway Park. With Sale, David Price and reigning American League Cy Young Award winner Rick Porcello atop the rotation, Boston is well-equipped to find continued success in a post-Papi world.
         
Whether your rooting interest lies on the North Side or the South Side, there's plenty to be excited about this holiday season.
The Cubs, still basking in the glory of the franchise's first World Series crown in more than a century, return the bulk of the team that won it all and wasted little time in bolstering the back end of their bullpen, trading part-time outfielder Jorge Soler to Kansas City for All-Star closer Wade Davis.
Meanwhile, the White Sox took their first step toward a return to relevancy, dealing ace Chris Sale to Boston for a package of four youngsters that included Yoan Moncada, baseball's best prospect.
With a slew of valuable trade chips left to play, including new ace Jose Quintana, third baseman Todd Frazier and closer David Robertson, chances are there's more young, controllable talent on the way, though it's going to arrive after ChiSox fans have opened all their Christmas gifts.
              
It might have felt like Santa left coal in Cleveland's stockings after the Indians blew a 3-1 lead over the Cubs in the World Series, but jolly old St. Nick made sure to give Cleveland fans something to smile about just in time for the holiday season, as Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported:
Source confirms: Encarnacion to #Indians, three years, $60M plus option. First reported: @JeffPassan and @JonHeyman.
Certainly, Encarnacion elevates Cleveland's offense to an entirely new level. But perhaps the most exciting part of his arrival for fans is that, for once, the stars aligned for a small-market club to dip its toes into the deep end of the free-agent pool and land the biggest fish out there.
          
Sure, there are still questions about the back end of Houston's rotation—sorry, Charlie Morton—but the Astros wasted little time in adding firepower to an offense that finished a mediocre eighth in the American League in runs scored last year.
Not only do Carlos Beltran, Brian McCann and Josh Reddick bring a wealth of experience and power to Minute Maid Park, but they provide what was a predominantly right-handed lineup with some much-needed balance.
More importantly, acquiring the trio cost Houston little in the way of prospects, leaving the Astros well-equipped to make another significant move before Opening Day should the opportunity present itself.
       
Whether real or perceived, the Hot Stove League isn't officially underway until the New York Yankees have been linked to a high-profile free agent or trade acquisition. There's been no shortage of that this winter, with the club's most recent speculative target being Chicago's Jose Quintana, as MLB Network's Jon Morosi noted:
#Yankees interested in Jose Quintana, source says, and they have the sort of prospects #WhiteSox are looking for. @MLB @MLBNetwork
In the past, the team would have gone out and swung a trade for Quintana as its "answer" to Boston's addition of Sale. But cooler heads have prevailed, and the Yankees have held on to the high-upside prospects they've developed and those they spent the second half of the 2016 season adding.
That the club looks intent on building a perennial contender from within, something that hasn't occurred in the Bronx since the early '90s, is a reason for Yankees fans to celebrate excitedly.
        
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays to everyone from all of us at B/R!

In keeping with the theme of the upcoming holidays, executives around MLB still have plenty of gift giving to do for their respective managers.
Multiple players—be it via the trade or free-agent markets—are available who could have an impact on division races in 2017. Where those players may land—and to an extent, who they are—still remains a mystery.
So as executives attempt to figure out how they may be able to better their clubs for the 2017 season, let’s try to answer some of the questions they’ll be asking.

By the time the 2017 season ends, we may look back on the offseason and come to realize that the biggest names of the winter began the season on the Chicago White Sox roster.
The most heralded move of the offseason—on both sides—came when Chicago dealt left-handed starter Chris Sale to the Boston Red Sox. Sale had to go first so as not to compete with teammate and fellow left-handed starter Jose Quintana, who will also immediately impact the top of any contending rotation.
With Chicago in rebuild mode, Quintana should be on his way to a contending team soon. If general manager Rick Hahn has proved one thing this offseason, it’s that he’s able to identify trade partners that give the White Sox maximum return in any trade.
As Hahn works the phones, he might be listening closest to the New York Yankees, who Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported were interested in acquiring Quintana.
It makes sense for both clubs. New York, looking to contend in 2017, would like to bolster its rotation. Quintana has played well against the Boston Red Sox—the Yankees’ chief competition in the AL East this upcoming season—throughout his career. Quintana’s 0.98 WHIP against Boston is his best career mark against any AL club, a terrible outing in Boston this season notwithstanding.
The White Sox, meanwhile, have four pitchers in MLB.com’s top 100 prospects (Lucas Giolito, Michael Kopech, Reynaldo Lopez and Carson Fulmer). They should now turn their attention toward acquiring position player prospects. The Yankees have five in the aforementioned list (outfielder Clint Frazier, shortstop Gleyber Torres, middle infielder Jorge Mateo, outfielder Aaron Judge and outfielder Blake Rutherford).

For a number of reasons—the collective bargaining negotiations and a weak free-agent class, to name a few—this offseason has been atypical.
That trend appears as if it will continue after the first of the year when several of this free-agent class’ biggest names could remain unsigned. Power remains the biggest area of supply with Mike Napoli, Jose Bautista, Mark Trumbo and Edwin Encarnacion still on the market.
The latter three have the ability to lead MLB in homers in a given year. In fact, Trumbo was the home run champ last season. But it’s Encarnacion who would impact a division race more than any of the aforementioned players.
Though they all have power, Bautista, Napoli and Trumbo are largely one-dimensional. All they do is hit for power.
Encarnacion, however, is a more complete player at the plate. He hit .263/.357/.529 and drove in an AL-leading 127 runs in 2016. Though he may figure as an everyday designated hitter, Encarnacion does offer something defensively. As a first baseman in 2016, he posted an ultimate zone rating of 1.7, according to FanGraphs.
The longer he lingers on the market, the more of a bargain he may become—making him even more attractive to teams looking to add a middle-of-the-order bat.

On its face, .305/.365/.538 with 30 homers and 91 RBI in 2016 should be easy to move. One would think teams looking for run production would push and shove to try to acquire a bat associated with such numbers.
But with Brewers outfielder Ryan Braun’s name attached, it seems as if they are shying away. A return to Southern California would make sense for Braun, who is from the area, and the Los Angeles Dodgers, who are looking to add an impact bat.
Los Angeles, however, appears to have turned its attention toward a trade for Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier (more on this in a minute).
What could be holding the Dodgers, and other teams, back is a confluence of issues. Braun is signed through the 2020 season with a mutual option for 2021 on a contract that has $76 million remaining.
It’s a contract commensurate with his numbers, but nonetheless a huge financial commitment. Couple that with the fact that Braun is an admitted steroid user and a positive test in the future would net him a massive suspension, it adds to the risk of such an acquisition. 
Milwaukee’s position in such a deal is a good one: The Brewers have one of baseball’s best groups of minor league prospects, so they can afford to hold Braun until the right deal comes their way, which could also contribute to stagnation in trade discussions.

The Dodgers may be a bat away from significantly closing the gap between themselves and the World Series champion Chicago Cubs. All indications are the organization believes that Minnesota Twins power-hitting second baseman Brian Dozier owns that bat.
Dozier told reporters earlier this month that he met with Twins executives to discuss trade rumors, including those that involved the Dodgers.
Such a trade would make sense for both sides. Minnesota is looking for young, controllable pitching, which the Dodgers can offer. Dozier, meanwhile, hit 42 homers in 2016 and would be a perfect fit in the Los Angeles lineup.
Placed somewhere in the middle of that lineup, the Dodgers would be able to alternate between the left-handed bats of Corey Seager and Adrian Gonzalez and the right-handed bats of Dozier and Justin Turner.  
As is the case in any trade negotiations, both clubs could be trying to establish their position. The Twins could try to drum up interest in Dozier among other teams so that they ultimately drive the price higher on Los Angeles.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported that the San Francisco Giants are interested in acquiring Dozier as well. It’s highly possible, though, the Giants are feigning interest to drive up the price on NL West rival Los Angeles.
San Francisco second baseman Joe Panik is a Gold Glove winner, and it would seem odd for the club to spend prospects trying to acquire another player at the position.
The two teams have a long history of competing heavily with each other in the offseason. This winter the Giants were rumored to have interest in third baseman Justin Turner and closer Kenley Jansen, who both ended up re-signing with Los Angeles.
Ultimately, expect a deal to get done with the Dodgers, where Dozier would be a much better fit.

Anytime a World Series comes down to a Game 7, it’s typical for it to be dissected months after—oftentimes until the start of the next season.
Moves are analyzed every which way, situations are replayed and criticism is levied on those deserving. It’s highly unusual, however, for that criticism to be thrown toward the opposing team.
But Cubs manager Joe Maddon finds himself in that circumstance, defending, among many things, his usage of closer Aroldis Chapman in that decisive seventh game.
In a conference with reporters after signing a deal with the Yankees this offseason, Chapman criticized Maddon for overusing him in the playoffs, saying he was tired when he blew a save in the eighth inning of the game Chicago eventually won in 10 frames.
Chapman is right. Though he repeatedly stated before the playoffs began that he is only comfortable pitching the ninth inning, Maddon used him for several multiple-inning outings throughout the playoffs. There was reason to question whether Chapman’s arm was tired heading into Game 7.
Moreover, Maddon earned criticism just a half-inning later when he called for Javy Baez, who had homered earlier in the game, to bunt on a two-strike count. Baez's bunt went foul, causing him to strike out.
Maddon’s defense is simple: The Cubs won.
And that’s all that matters. Coaching decisions, managerial moves and the play on the field are all broken down in the context of how they affect the outcome of a game.
These moves, while questionable, didn’t affect the outcome. And Chicago doesn’t get to a World Series without Maddon, who was outstanding throughout the regular season.
So why does it matter? Could the Cubs have done a better job of winning Game 7? The obvious answer: No. All that matters is the final score.

Offseason plans can change in a hurry. Just ask the Pittsburgh Pirates.
At the winter meetings, there were rumblings the Pirates were sellers. Specifically, they were shopping center fielder and former franchise cornerstone Andrew McCutchen. 
Trade rumors are still swirling around the 2013 National League MVP. On Thursday, though, the Bucs became buyers, inking right-hander Ivan Nova to a three-year, $26 million deal, according to FanRag Sports' Robert Murray.
Nova is a modest splash. But couple his signing with word that Pittsburgh has "worked hard" to trade for Chicago White Sox left-hander Jose Quintana, per ESPN The Magazine's Buster Olney, and you have the makings of an all-in strategy.
Why not?
Sure, the Pirates finished a disappointing 78-83 last season and missed the playoffs after three consecutive wild-card berths. 
No, Pittsburgh will never win an arms race in the NL Central with the defending champion Chicago Cubs, who have a bigger budget and a galaxy of young stars.
This team can contend, though. Another crack at the Wild Card Game is within reach, provided the Pirates stay aggressive.
Pittsburgh's offense is more than adequate. Despite a down year from McCutchen—who posted a career-low .766 OPS—the Pirates finished sixth in the NL in runs (729) and fifth in batting average (.257).
A bounce-back year from McCutchen, assuming the Pirates keep him, could vault the lineup into the NL's upper echelon. 

The bullpen ranked fifth in the NL with a 3.57 ERA. The loss of closer Mark Melancon, whom the Pirates dealt at the 2016 trade deadline, diminished the relief corps, but it's not a glaring weakness. And they added right-hander Daniel Hudson for two years and $11 million. 
Instead, Pittsburgh can concentrate its resources on forming a top-flight rotation.
Inking Nova was a solid first step. The 29-year-old Dominican posted an unspectacular 4.17 ERA last season. But he upped his game after a deadline swap from the New York Yankees to Pittsburgh, going 5-2 with a 3.06 ERA in 64.2 innings.
After six-plus up-and-down seasons in the Bronx, Nova looked comfortable in black and yellow. 
"I don't want to leave this clubhouse, to be honest," he said in late September, per Travis Sawchik of the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review.
Now he doesn't have to. He rejoins a rotation fronted by ace Gerrit Cole, who dealt with a triceps strain last season but was an All-Star and top-five NL Cy Young Award finisher in 2015.
With promising young right-handers Jameson Taillon and Tyler Glasnow also in the mix, the Pirates already have the makings of a stout starting five.
Quintana, however, could join Cole and Nova to form a legitimate Big Three.
The 27-year-old southpaw has eclipsed 200 innings in each of the past four campaigns. Last season, he posted a career-best 3.20 ERA. If you like WAR, between 2013 and 2016, Quintana's 18.1 mark ranked seventh among pitchers by FanGraphs' measure. 
Most intriguingly for the budget-conscious Bucs, Quintana is locked into an affordable contract. His deal will pay him $7 million in 2017 and $8.85 million in 2018, followed by a $10.5 million team option in 2019 and an $11.5 million club option in 2020.

That said, he won't come cheap. The White Sox asked for the Houston Astros' top two prospects plus another MLB-ready arm in exchange for Quintana, per baseball insider Peter Gammons. 
That means the Pirates would likely have to part with Glasnow, their No. 1 prospect, plus either outfielder/No. 2 prospect Austin Meadows or first baseman/No. 3 prospect Josh Bell and a high-upside ancillary piece. 
It's a huge ask. Quintana is a huge get. That's how these things work.
The Pirates' win-now window remains open. With the Cubs representing the class of the division and the St. Louis Cardinals always lurking, however, the Pirates can't afford to hang back, as Sean Gentille of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette wrote:
If the Pirates feel good about their chances from now until 2019 — that is, if they feel like they said they’d feel a few years ago — they’ll keep McCutchen and actually go get Quintana. They won’t just try. They’ll make the choice to maximize whatever shot, as currently constituted, they’ve got left. They’ll do right by their fans. They’ll, you know, get better.
Re-upping Nova made them a bit better. Trading for Quintana would make them a lot better. Toss in Cole and an above-average offense and you have a postseason contender.
A few weeks ago, the Bucs appeared to be sellers. Now it's time for them to adjust their sails.
        
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and MLB.com unless otherwise noted. Prospect ratings by MLB.com unless otherwise noted.

Over the last five years, Edwin Encarnacion has hit 193 home runs while emerging as one of MLB's most reliable power hitters. The Cleveland Indians will hope he continues that pace for at least another three years.
Encarnacion agreed to a three-year deal with a club option for a fourth, according to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman on Dec. 22. Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan confirmed the news at the time and added that the deal is worth $65 million total, including a $5 million buyout on the club option. According to Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal, the deal could reach $80 million if the fourth-year option is exercised.
The Indians confirmed the deal on Thursday.
USA Today's Bob Nightengale noted that nabbing Encarnacion should keep the Indians in the American League pennant race:
Encarnacion spent the past seven-plus seasons with the Toronto Blue Jays after being acquired from the Cincinnati Reds in a 2009 deal.
Inconsistent and somewhat maligned during his time in Cincinnati, Encarnacion emerged as a star in Toronto. He has made three of the last four American League All-Star teams, belted no fewer than 34 home runs in any of the last five seasons and tied with David Ortiz for the AL lead in RBI (127) in 2016.
"There have been a lot of ups and down in the last six years in my career here with Toronto," Encarnacion said, per John Lott of Blue Jays Nation. "But it's more good things that happened to me than bad things happened. So I feel good, the way I've been for this organization, and I feel very proud."
Encarnacion and Jose Bautista have anchored the middle of a Blue Jays lineup that's reached the postseason each of the last two years. Most expected Toronto to attempt to bring Encarnacion back, but even he seemed resigned to his tenure's ending late in 2016.
"You feel sad because I want to be here, but it's not my decision," Encarnacion said, per Lott. "Now we have to wait and see what's going to happen."
While it's always risky to lock in a player approaching his 34th birthday on a long-term deal, Encarnacion showed no signs of slowing down in 2016. He matched a career high with 42 home runs, producing a .263/.357/.529 slash line. His peripherals were slightly down from last season, but Encarnacion played in 160 games for the first time in his career.
The Blue Jays also showed more interest in getting him out into the field. Encarnacion nearly split his first base and designated hitting duties down the middle, which could provide Cleveland with a blueprint. He's still a mostly dreadful fielder—Encarnacion has produced a positive defensive rating just once in his career—but getting him to border on passable would help.
With the Indians, Encarnacion will look to bolster the reigning AL champs' offerings at the plate one year after they pined for some extra power.
Cleveland ranked 10th out of 15 AL teams in total home runs, and that mark stands to improve if Encarnacion can replicate the success he experienced in Toronto.

The Pittsburgh Pirates announced they have re-signed starting pitcher Ivan Nova on a three-year contract on Tuesday.
Robert Murray of FanRag Sports, citing sources, first reported the three-year deal was worth $26 million, with a $2 million signing bonus on Dec. 22. Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal, citing a source, confirmed Murray's report and noted the deal is still pending a physical. 
Nova watched his stock drop considerably across his final two-plus seasons with the New York Yankees. With his contract set to expire, the club traded him to the Pittsburgh Pirates in August, and the move seemed to provide the spark the Dominican Republic native needed.
The 29-year-old right-hander posted a 3.06 ERA and a 1.10 WHIP with 52 strikeouts in 64.2 innings across 11 starts after the move. It represented a significant improvement after putting up a 4.90 ERA in 21 appearances for the Yankees.
John Perrotto of Today's Knuckleball noted the veteran starter credited pitching coach Ray Searage and getting away from the bright lights of New York for the turnaround in September.
"He's a great pitching coach," Nova said. "We're having fun here with him. I think that’s one of the keys. It gives me the confidence to go out there and have fun and do the best that you can. We couldn't always have fun in New York."
Nova had three complete games during the stretch run with Pittsburgh, which matched his total from his six-plus years with the Yankees. His strong finish also showcased the potential he flashed at times, but never fully capitalized, while in pinstripes.
All told, his overall numbers don't jump off the page with a 4.30 ERA, 1.37 WHIP and 595 strikeouts in 793.2 career innings. He's in the middle of what's typically a player's prime years, however, and it's reasonable to believe he can still improve in 2017 and beyond.
Staying in Pittsburgh certainly seems like the right decision on the surface. It gives him an opportunity to build off the progress he made during the latter stages of last season and keeps him in a smaller market, which fit his personality well.
It's also a wise signing for the Pirates. The team still has several question marks in its rotation behind Gerrit Cole, though it hopes Jameson Taillon, Tyler Glasnow and Chad Kuhl can assume more vital roles. Nova can fill a spot in the middle or back of the rotation with the ability to pitch like a No. 2 starter.
Ultimately, it's no guarantee he'll parlay his successful finish in 2016 into a breakout season. But it's a risk worth taking for a team needing pitching depth. 
                                                         


Normally, the week before Christmas is a busy time in baseball, with teams looking to finish up deals with free agents and complete trades before the game goes on an unofficial hiatus until we ring in the new year.
That hasn't been the case in 2016, leaving us with a rumor mill that's bursting at the seams with speculation about the immediate futures of some big names. 
Will two of those big names wind up with teams in smaller markets, moves that would obliterate the notion that small-market clubs can't contend with the "big boys" in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and New York? Has an injury limited the market for one of the better pitchers left unsigned?
We'll hit on all that and more in this week's edition of Fact or Fiction.

There's a tendency to dismiss small-market teams like the Pittsburgh Pirates as potential landing spots for the biggest names on the market. Not only do the biggest names tend to command the biggest salaries as free agents, but the Pirates typically can't afford to part with the prospect haul it'd take to trade for one.
That's not the case when it comes to Chicago White Sox ace Jose Quintana, who is due just $15.85 million through 2018 and comes with affordable $10.5 million and $11.5 million team options in 2019 and 2020, respectively. It's no wonder then that the Pirates have "worked hard" to land the 27-year-old southpaw, per ESPN's Buster Olney.
Getting Quintana at an affordable rate for four years makes it easier for the Pirates to part with the young talent it'll take to pry him loose. According to Peter Gammons, Chicago asked the Houston Astros for their top two prospects and 24-year-old right-hander Joe Musgrove when the teams spoke earlier this month.
Outfield prospect Austin Meadows would almost certainly be part of the package heading back to Chicago, which recently traded its center fielder, Adam Eaton, to Washington. Pitching prospects Tyler Glasnow, Nick Keller and Jameson Taillon, along with first baseman Josh Bell, could also be in play.
With Starling Marte and Gregory Polanco the only Pirates under contract after 2019, Pittsburgh is built to win now. Quintana won't push the Pirates past the Chicago Cubs in the National League Central, but he'd help solidify the team's place as a perennial wild-card contender for the next few years.

He's too expensive. That's what "most believe" about the Cleveland Indians' chances of signing free-agent slugger Edwin Encarnacion, according to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman—that he's "a luxury the Indians will have difficulty affording."
That's nonsense.
Sure, ownership would have to be willing to sign off on a franchise-record Opening Day payroll to get Encarnacion signed, something approaching—if not exceeding—$120 million. But that's not really a stretch for the Tribe for two reasons.
First, the Indians added more than $20 million in payroll during the 2016 season. Per Cot's Contracts, the club went from an Opening Day payroll of $96.3 million to a season-ending total of $117.6 million. The team is willing to spend when necessary.
Then there's the additional revenue the club took in during its run to the World Series—nearly $48 million, a source estimated for Paul Hoynes of the Plain Dealer. Put the two together, and voila—adding Encarnacion's salary to the books suddenly doesn't seem like such a stretch.
None of this means that the Indians will sign Encarnacion, of course. But contrary to popular opinion, they could.

The Minnesota Twins have no problem heading into the 2017 season with Brian Dozier entrenched at second base. The Los Angeles Dodgers don't have a second baseman—utility man Enrique Hernandez is the closest thing they can point to—and that's a problem.
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, both the Twins and Dodgers agree that any trade package for Dozier would begin with prized Dodgers pitching prospect Jose De Leon. Last week, we said it was a fact that the 24-year-old would have to be the centerpiece of any Dozier-to-the-Dodgers deal.
But the two teams can't seem to agree on the other pieces that would be heading back to Minnesota. 
Nobody's suggesting the Dodgers should give in to exorbitant demands from the Twins, but at the same time, trading for Dozier is by far the team's best chance to not only plug the hole at second base, but actually improve their team.
Los Angeles' other realistic option to fill its void at the keystone, re-signing Chase Utley, sounds great in theory. But he's 38 years old and didn't exactly tear the cover off the ball for the Dodgers last year, hitting .252 with a .716 OPS. After the All-Star break, he hit just .238 with a .704 OPS.
The pressure is on for the Dodgers to embark on a deep playoff run that lands the team back in the World Series. Adding Dozier gives them the best chance to do just that, and ultimately, they'll find a middle ground with Minnesota and strike a deal.
They can't afford not to.

It's no secret that the New York Mets have too many outfielders. Jay Bruce, Yoenis Cespedes and Curtis Granderson are penciled in as their three starters, with Juan Lagares the fourth outfielder and Michael Conforto currently the odd man out.
But that hasn't stopped the Mets from checking in on available center fielders.
They've had "minor talks" with the Pittsburgh Pirates about Andrew McCutchen, per MLB.com's Anthony DiComo, but those talks haven't gone anywhere. According to Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal, they aren't overly interested in the Kansas City Royals' Lorenzo Cain or Jarrod Dyson, either.
After that trio, there's not much left in the way of external upgrades—unless you consider free agents like Michael Bourn or Ben Revere an upgrade.
Lagares is by far the team's best defensive option in center, but the 27-year-old doesn't provide enough offense to be an everyday player. He needs a platoon partner, a lefty bat who can handle the position defensively.
Conforto is a corner outfielder, so he doesn't fit the bill. But prospect Brandon Nimmo does, and like Conforto, he has little left to prove in the minor leagues.
Fitting both Conforto and Nimmo into the Opening Day lineup would require the team to trade both Bruce and Granderson. MLB Network's Jon Morosi tweets that the Toronto Blue Jays have interest in one or the other, and there are enough teams in need of outfield help to think that moving the pair before Opening Day is feasible.
Sometimes, the best upgrade a team can find comes from within.

Tyson Ross underwent thoracic outlet syndrome surgery on his right shoulder in October, the end result of a lost season for the right-hander, who was limited to just one start, spanning 5.1 innings, in 2016.
Though the procedure is starting to become more common, it's nowhere near as prevalent as Tommy John surgery, for which there's a lengthy list of success stories. Yet that doesn't appear to have limited Ross' market, with Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports tweeting that roughly 20 teams have interest in signing the free-agent hurler.
His former club, the San Diego Padres, remain interested in a reunion, and they've been joined by the Pittsburgh Pirates, Texas Rangers and both of last year's World Series participants, the Chicago Cubs and Cleveland Indians as suitors for the 29-year-old.
According to Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News, Ross is looking for a deal that will pay him between $9 million and $11 million in 2017, an asking price that may not include incentives. As Grant noted, that's a "high price for [a] guy who might not be ready to start [the] year."
Signing Ross is a risky proposition to be sure, but between the lack of quality starting pitchers left available in free agency and the high asking price teams with pitching to spare are looking for in trades, what he's looking for isn't so outrageous.
With nearly two-thirds of baseball showing interest in his services, Ross will ultimately get the deal he's looking for.
       
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

There's always going to be a reaction whenever star players change hands on the MLB trade market. Heck, it would be weird if people didn't say, "Wow!" or some other exclamation.
But these days, we're often saying, "Wow!" not at the reality that such players are being traded but at what they're being traded for.
We know this because we can round up a bullet-pointed list of prominent examples from this winter, this summer and last winter. Like so...
This Winter
This Summer
Last Winter
The Braves got the most praise for shaking down the Diamondbacks in the Miller trade. But to some degree or another, the sellers in each trade got thumbs-up from all corners of the baseball realm.
And this may not even be a comprehensive list of recent seller-friendly trades. There are cases to be made for the Diamondbacks in the Jean Segura trade, the Kansas City Royals in the Wade Davis trade, the Milwaukee Brewers in the Jonathan Lucroy/Jeremy Jeffress and Will Smith trades, the Oakland A's in the Rich Hill/Josh Reddick trade and the Yankees in the Carlos Beltran trade.
And so on. Point is: It's been hard to be underwhelmed at what star talent has gone for.

 
It wasn't always like this.
Five winters ago, Rany Jazayerli was lamenting at Grantland how teams no longer seemed able to trade star veterans for young studs. Just two winters ago, Dave Cameron of FanGraphs drew up a list of recent big-ticket trades and found the buyer-friendly deals easily outweighed the seller-friendly deals.
As for why this seemed so shocking, Cameron wrote:
It feels like if our default reaction to star player trades is almost always that the seller isn’t getting enough in return, then it’s more likely that our expectations are what is out of whack, and not that every team selling a star player is misreading the market for their player.
Survey says: yup.
While NFL and NBA fans have long obsessed over the next wave of talent playing in the college and high school ranks, it's more recently that baseball fans have taken to obsessing over the next wave of talent playing in the minor leagues. That's partially owed to the proliferation of prospect coverage on the series of tubes known as the "internet."
But it's also a reaction to reality.
In 2014, FiveThirtyEight's Neil Paine pointed out that MLB's star power had been shifting to younger players as the league moved further past the steroid era. And it hasn't stopped. FanGraphs' WAR claims that the last two years have been the best ever for 25-and-under hitters. Young pitchers, meanwhile, have at least guaranteed big radar gun readings.
Of course, this isn't just an excuse for fans to grow attached to prospects. It's also an excuse for major league front offices to do the same.

In cases like the Astros and Cubs, that's meant tearing down what they had and using the draft and international market to build contenders from scratch. More recently, the Braves, Brewers, Phillies, Padres and now the White Sox have set themselves on that path.
At the same time, there's also the effect that the second wild card has had since it was introduced in 2012. It's emboldened more teams to try and contend every year. So while every team now values young talent, there's also a sharp line between two different classes of teams. There are the few rebuilders and the many contenders.
In an environment like this—one with lots of young talent to go around and some teams having more incentive than others to stockpile it—it may have been just a matter of time before seller-friendly trades became more common. All that was needed was the same thing the Joker tells us connects madness and gravity: a little push.
What happened last winter seems to have done the trick.
Last offseason's free-agent class was by far the best in recent memory and was paid accordingly. Per Jeff Todd of MLB Trade Rumors, nearly $2.5 billion was spent on free agents. That made the trade market the only place teams could look for relatively cheap impact talent. 
This set the stage for the Kimbrel, Giles and Miller trades, which went down within a month of each other. The trade that sent Chapman from the Reds to the Yankees didn't fit for extraordinary circumstances, but those three trades effectively pushed the trade market's scales in favor of sellers.

The summer trade market then provided the perfect environment for other sellers to take advantage. The second wild card created the usual gap between buyers and sellers around the trade deadline, but there was an extra wrinkle this time around. Clubs like the Reds, Phillies, Braves and Padres had largely already stripped themselves of their best trade chips. Other clubs like the Diamondbacks, Minnesota Twins and Los Angeles Angels had good players but none really for sale.
The many teams looking to deal for impact talent thus had very few sellers to turn to, creating the ultimate seller's market. That was good news for the Yankees, especially, who made the gutsy (and correct) call to pull the plug on a mediocre present to take aim at a brighter future.
Which brings us to this winter, in which the seller-friendly trade market has been upheld by an old-fashioned market force: supply and demand.
This winter's free-agent market is the polar opposite of last year's market. Keith Law of ESPN.com spoke for everyone in writing it "might be the worst I've ever seen." He specifically lamented the market's lack of athleticism and starting pitching, the latter of which wasn't lost on executives.
"The starting pitching landscape this offseason has been a story for what, 18 months now?" Tampa Bay Rays general manager Erik Neander told Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com. "There's been as much of an advance-notice publicly as there's been in a while with respect to a free-agent class."
This put the White Sox in an enviable position with Sale, and they took advantage of it. While nobody seems to think the Red Sox made a horrible trade, the White Sox may have gotten just as much applause for the return they got. Even Red Sox boss Dave Dombrowski admitted he paid a heavy price.
“There will come a day when Moncada is putting in his 15-year career that we will be saying, ‘The Red Sox, geez, I can’t believe we traded that guy,'" he told Bob Nightengale of USA Today. "So yes, it does complicate it. He’s a great player. If he’s not a tremendous player, I’ll be very surprised."

The White Sox were in a similar position with Eaton, whose athleticism elevated him amid a market dominated by one-dimensional sluggers. This time, Barry Svrluga of the Washington Post reported the reaction among executives was decidedly pro-White Sox.
“I love Eaton. But I’m pretty shocked," said one.
The lack of athleticism on the open market likely also helped the Diamondbacks swap Segura for the upside that Walker, a former elite prospect, may still have. Before the winter is over, it's a good bet that another team will get a big return for a starting pitcher (sideways glance at Jose Quintana).
Another good bet is that life won't always be this good for the trade market's sellers. These things go in cycles. The next one will either be the market evening out or shifting back in favor of buyers.
By the same token, the shift in favor of sellers over the last year is something that was likely inevitable and that has been realized by a perfect storm of circumstances.
If nothing else, a reminder that such things don't happen by accident.
                
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. Contract and payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.


First it was Ryan Braun. Now it's Brian Dozier.
It's hardly a surprise to see the Los Angeles Dodgers linked to a right-handed hitter with power, given the difficulties they had against left-handed pitching in 2016. They were the only team to make the playoffs despite a losing record when facing a lefty starter, and they went 0-3 when facing lefties in the postseason.
Braun (1.010 OPS against left-handers in 2016) could help them. Dozier (.965) could, too.
As of this moment, the Dodgers don't have either one. They haven't traded for Braun, despite midseason talks that nearly led to a deal, according to Bob Nightengale of USA Today. They haven't yet traded for Dozier, despite a willingness to discuss top prospect Jose De Leon, according to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports.
Both remain available on the trade market, even though Milwaukee Brewers general manager David Stearns told Milwaukee's 105.7 The Fan, "My expectation is that Ryan's going to be here next year and going forward."
You can take that to mean he hasn't received any reasonable offers this winter, because it's hard to believe the rebuilding Brewers wouldn't remain open to a deal.
The question—for the Dodgers and any other team looking to trade for right-handed pop—is whether Braun or Dozier would be a bigger help. They don't play the same position, and they don't have the same contract, but they're similar players in terms of offensive potential.
"Braun is a more complete hitter," said one American League scout who saw both play last year.
"Everything equal, I would take Braun offensively," another AL scout agreed. "But I would rather have Dozier overall."

So would I, for reasons that go beyond Braun's 2013 suspension for using performance-enhancing drugs.
Braun might be a better bet to hit big in 2017. His 134 OPS+ over the last two seasons, as calculated by Baseball-Reference.com, ranked higher than Jose Bautista and Manny Machado, among others.
But Dozier hit more home runs than Braun and nearly everyone else in baseball in 2016. (He tied Edwin Encarnacion and Khris Davis for third in the majors, with 42.) Dozier, who turns 30 in May, is also three-and-a-half years younger than Braun.
Then there are the contracts.
Dozier's is more than reasonable, with a $6 million salary for 2017 that jumps to $9 million for 2018. He's eligible for free agency after that, so it would cost considerably more to keep him long-term. Still, he's a bargain.
Braun is not. He makes $19 million each of the next two seasons, then $18 million in 2019 and $16 million in 2020, when he'll be 36. He can also block trades to all but six teams. Since the Dodgers are one of the six on his list, and since they're one of the clubs that can afford his contract, it's not surprising that the Brewers' most serious trade talks concerning Braun seem to have been with them.
It's also not a surprise the Dodgers seem to prefer Dozier, who plays a position of greater need.
The Minnesota Twins should have a bigger market for the affordable Dozier, and Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports noted the San Francisco Giants' interest on Tuesday. Beyond those two teams, though, it's hard to come up with a contender in need of a second baseman. The Detroit Tigers faced the same issue when they gauged trade interest in their second baseman, Ian Kinsler.

 
Besides the better contract, Dozier has another edge. The Twins second baseman has played 155 or more games each of the last three seasons, while Braun last played 150 contests in 2012. He played 135 in 2016, never going on the disabled list but missing time with a back injury.
Braun had surgery to repair a herniated disk after the 2015 season, which surely is a concern to any team considering a trade.
Dozier doesn't carry similar risk—or similar baggage. While Braun hasn't been in trouble since serving his suspension, the fact he was busted for PEDs doesn't go away.
As one anonymous team executive told Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, "When a guy with that contract has been busted once, it's hard to commit those dollars and those player resources because if he gets busted again, you lose all of your guys and you lose Braun. Nobody is saying he'd do it again, but while he's a very good impact player, it's just a tough one."
With Dozier, the question is whether you believe his 2016 season was a breakout or a career year. Is he now a 40-homer-a-year guy, or will he slip back to the 18-28 range he was in before last season?
"I have more trust in Braun to maintain the consistency of impact," one National League scout said.
Because of the contract, the acquisition cost, the back trouble and even the drug past, a team trading for Braun would be taking a bigger risk. But it could be for a bigger reward.
         
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

Voting members of the Baseball Writers Association of America have until Dec. 31 to submit their Hall of Fame ballots, and the results will be announced Jan. 6.
It's not too early to stack up odds for the 2017 class, though, using past trends and exit polling of BBWAA voters as a guide.
There are no first-ballot locks in this group. There are, however, several guys who should keep their schedules clear for the July 30 induction ceremony, including a perennial HOF also-ran in his final year of eligibility. 
Voters will once again wrestle with Roger Clemens and Barry Bonds, statistical titans stained by the steroid era, and they'll consider a handful of borderline cases sure to spark debate.
Feel free to sound off with your picks in the comments, and proceed when ready. 

This is an eclectic group. The only thing they all have in common is that they won't be punching a ticket to Cooperstown.
Among the first-year candidates, some will fall off immediately after failing to get the requisite five percent. Others might cling on for a year or more but will never get close to the 75 percent needed for induction. Here's that contingent:
There are several returning candidates and two first-year offers who appear likely to stick on the ballot but show no trend toward 75 percent. 
Among returners, Jeff Kent, Fred McGriff, Gary Sheffield, Lee Smith, Billy Wagner and Larry Walker fall into the Hall of the Very Good. Smith, it should be noted, is in his 15th and final year of eligibility.
First-year candidate Jorge Posada also seems destined for the non-existent HOVG, though the former New York Yankees catcher could be considered a long shot for eventual enshrinement into the actual Hall. 
Manny Ramirez, also a first-year man, has impressive stats but will be weighed down by his performance-enhancing drug baggage. The same goes for Sammy Sosa, who is on the ballot for the fifth time and has seen his support drop each year.
Here's a rundown of this group, with last year's vote percentage in parentheses where applicable:

Year on Ballot: 4th
2016 Percentage: 43
Mike Mussina made the biggest voting jump of any player on the ballot last year, bumping up 18.4 percent, per ESPN.com's Jayson Stark. 
He's still well below the 75 percent threshold, however, and got fewer votes than two other starting pitchers who likewise missed the cut.
There's a statistical case to be made for Mussina, who won 270 games, made five All-Star teams and won six Gold Gloves in his 18-year career.
If his vote total edges northward again this year, he could be on track for eventual induction, but it's tough to imagine him getting a 32 percent boost this time around.
2017 Induction Odds: 20-1

Year on Ballot: 8th
2016 Percentage: 43.4
Edgar Martinez's Hall of Fame candidacy hinges on voters' willingness to let in a designated hitter.
It's rare, but it has happened, as Sports Illustrated's Jay Jaffe outlined:
Not until 2014 was the first player ever to spend a majority of his career as a DH inducted into the Hall of Fame: Frank Thomas, who made 57% of his plate appearances in that capacity. Thomas's election came a full decade after Paul Molitor became the Hall’s first player to spend the plurality of his career (44%) as a DH after bouncing all around the infield. By comparison, Martinez took 72% of his plate appearances as a DH...
A lifetime .312 hitter, Martinez was a seven-time All-Star and two-time batting champion who finished with 2,247 hits and a .933 career OPS.
His vote total jumped 16.4 percent last year, but like Mussina he's well below the 75 percent threshold.
He almost certainly won't get in this year. But as he creeps closer to the 10-year mark when his name will come off the ballot, it's possible to imagine a surge of support.
2017 Induction Odds: 20-1

Year on Ballot: 5th
2016 Percentage: 52.3
Schilling edged above 50 percent in the last round of voting after getting 39.2 percent the year before. A similar jump would place him just shy of induction.
Schilling's HOF case isn't a slam dunk statistically. His playoff numbers, however, gild the lily.
The right-hander won three rings with the Arizona Diamondbacks and Boston Red Sox, owns an 11-2 record and 2.23 ERA in 19 career postseason starts and was named MVP of the 2001 Fall Classic.
Add six All-Star appearances and five top-four Cy Young Award finishes and you've got a Cooperstown-worthy body of work.
This probably isn't Schilling's year, but it looks like he's on a path to get in before his eligibility runs dry.
2017 Induction Odds: 5-1

Year on Ballot: 5th
2016 Percentage: 45.2
On the stats alone, Clemens is a HOF shoo-in.
A seven-time Cy Young Award winner and one-time American League MVP, Clemens ranks third on the all-time strikeout list (4,672) and ninth all time with 354 wins.
Ties to performance-enhancing drugs sullied his legacy, however, and have thus far kept him out of Cooperstown.
That could change now that former MLB Commissioner Bud Selig is in.
Selig was enshrined in early December by the 16-person Today’s Game Era committee, causing some writers to rethink their position on otherwise worthy PED-connected players.
"When Bud was put in two weeks ago, my mindset changed," BBWAA voting member Kevin Cooney said, per Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan. "If the commissioner of the steroid era was put into the HOF by a secret committee, then I couldn’t in good faith keep those two out any longer."
It's a solid argument, and it may explain why Clemens is sitting at 71 percent in the latest count of public ballots conducted by Ryan Thibodaux. 
That number could tick down after all the ballots are counted. Even if it held, it would leave Clemens a tad short.
It suggests, though, that anti-steroid sentiment is waning, at least against players who would have been first-ballot inductees without ties to chemical enhancement.
Clemens falls squarely into that category. It doesn't appear 2017 will be his year, but his odds of eventually getting a bust have never been higher.
2017 Induction Odds: 5-1

Year on Ballot: 5th
2016 Percentage: 44.3
Everything we said about Clemens is true of Bonds. He's baseball's all-time and single-season home run king. He won seven MVP Awards and eight Gold Gloves. HOF cases don't get more open-and-shut than that.
Except, of course, when you're a suspected PED user.
The Selig effect could give Bonds a bump. Like Clemens, Bonds is at 71 percent on Thibodaux's public-ballot count. 
Bonds also spent 2016 as the Miami Marlins' hitting instructor. While he was fired after the season, the gig eased him out of the shadows and back onto the field. 
He's never admitted to, let alone apologized for, PED use. He also has a longstanding adversarial relationship with the media, including the writers who hold his HOF fate in their hands.
If assumed steroid users start getting in, however, Bonds had better be first in line. It'll be a PR headache for MLB and will inevitably stir controversy, but it's beginning to look inevitable.
2017 Induction Odds: 5-1

Year on Ballot: 1st
The term "first ballot Hall of Famer" carries a certain mystique. Some writers hold it as a sacred honor, to be bestowed only on the cream of the crop.
Because of that, Vladimir Guerrero may have to wait. 
Vlad hit .318 and cracked 441 home runs over his 16-year career, making nine All-Star teams and winning an AL MVP Award along the way.
He also played during the steroid era and could suffer from guilt by association. Ask Mike Piazza, who didn't get in until Year 4, or Jeff Bagwell, who's entering Year 7 (more on him in a moment).
Guerrero will be a Hall of Famer eventually. Whether it's this time around depends on how many writers place stock in the sanctity of the first ballot. 
2017 Induction Odds: 2-1

Year on Ballot: 1st
It took Piazza four years to get in, so it could take Ivan Rodriguez more than one.
Not because Pudge isn't worthy based on the numbers—he ranks among the top 10 catchers all time in home runs, batting average and RBI and made 14 All-Star teams—but because he nearly confessed to PED use in 2009.
Specifically, when asked if his name would appear on a list of players who tested positive for steroids in 2003, Rodriguez replied, "Only God knows," according to the Associated Press (via ESPN.com).
That's not exactly a smoking gun, but it's far from an outright denial. Add the guilt-by-association and first-ballot mystique factors we discussed with Guerrero, and it's possible Rodriguez's induction will be delayed. 
2017 Induction Odds: 2-1

Year on Ballot: 2nd
2016 Percentage: 67.3
Trevor Hoffman fell less than eight percent shy of induction last year and is tracking at 76 percent, according to Thibodaux's count.
The Hall isn't an easy party for closers to crash—just ask Lee Smith. Hoffman, however, ranks second all-time with 601 career saves and joins Mariano Rivera as the only members of the 600-save club.
There's a chance he'll fall short again. Maybe voters will be tempted to wait until 2019 when Rivera is eligible.
Either way, it's only a matter of time.
2017 Induction Odds: 1-3

Year on Ballot: 7th
2016 Percentage: 67.3
If patience is a virtue, someone should nominate Jeff Bagwell for sainthood.
In his sixth year of eligibility, Bagwell came agonizingly close to induction. To salt the wound, Bagwell's old Houston Astros teammate, Craig Biggio, sailed in on his third try the previous year. 
An NL Rookie of the Year and MVP winner, Bagwell finished his career with 488 home runs and 79.9 WAR, the second-highest total among position players on this year's ballot behind only Bonds.
Sports Illustrated's Jaffe called him, "one of the best all-around first basemen since World War II," and he isn't wrong.
Bagwell has denied any connection to PEDs but did admit to using at-the-time legal enhancers, including androstenedione.
That's apparently been enough to delay his enshrinement. Barring an unexpected voting downturn, ballot No. 7 should be the lucky one for Bagwell.
2017 Induction Odds: 1-3

Year on Ballot: 10th
2016 Percentage: 69.8
It's now or never for Tim Raines.
It says here it'll be now.
Rock Raines should already be in the Hall. He ranks fifth all time with 808 stolen bases. He's got 2,605 hits. He owns a .294/.385/.425 career slash line, which compares favorably to Hall of Famer Rickey Henderson's career line of .279/.401/.419.
Raines wasn't a model citizen. Persistent allegations of cocaine use and a sometimes prickly relationship with the media tarnished his image.
He crept up to the edge of induction last year, however, and should get the 11th-hour boost he needs in his final year of eligibility.
2017 Induction Odds: 1-4
   
All statistics and voting results courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

The Cleveland Indians left the rest of the American League in their dust in the 2016 MLB playoffs. After winning 94 games in the regular season, they won seven of eight games en route to a near miss in the World Series.      
But a couple of AL clubs have made key additions since then, so clearly the only thing the Indians could do in response is sign the best free agent remaining on the market.
OK, maybe it's not the only thing they could have done. But after weeks of will-they-or-won't-they rumors and speculation, the Indians finally went ahead and signed Edwin Encarnacion on Thursday. According to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports, the veteran slugger is joining up on a three-year contract:
Source: Edwin Encarnacion's deal is actually $65M guaranteed. The $5M option buyout is on top of $20M a year he's getting for three years.
Cleveland can consider this a discount. According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, Encarnacion once had an $80 million offer on the table to return to the Toronto Blue Jays. He was projected by MLB Trade Rumors to sign for even more at $92 million.
The fact that Encarnacion is settling for a $65 million deal might tell us that he overplayed his hand on this winter's market by rejecting Toronto's $80 million offer. It certainly didn't help his case that he was sharing space with a collection of similarly one-dimensional sluggers.
But more to the point, it tells us that Cleveland could see what the rest of us could see: It had an opening for a right-handed slugger who could fit at first base and designated hitter.

That was Mike Napoli's job in 2016, and he did it splendidly by posting an .800 OPS and tying Carlos Santana for the team lead with 34 home runs. But now he's a free agent. And while Napoli would have come cheaper than Encarnacion, the extra money spent Thursday has bought a significant upgrade.
This isn't a scorching take, is it? Nah, I don't think so.
Encarnacion has hit 193 home runs since 2012, 77 more than Napoli and only four fewer than league leader Chris Davis. By adjusted OPS+, Encarnacion has also been one of the AL's five best hitters over the last five seasons:
Beyond Encarnacion's ties to draft-pick compensation and his limited skill set, his red flags are his age (34 in January) and his escalating strikeout rate.
But as long as he's only being weighed against the incumbent Napoli, neither thing is a big concern for Cleveland. Encarnacion is a year younger, and he won't be anything close to the strikeout black hole Napoli was.
Now, if anyone wants to get technical, the Indians didn't really need an upgrade as substantial as Encarnacion.
That would imply that they didn't already have an easy road to a playoff spot in 2017. They did. They're part of an MLB landscape that, as Jeff Sullivan of FanGraphs highlighted, might not feature any division races. They were projected for 89 wins before signing Encarnacion, six more than the next best projection in the AL Central. 
However, Cleveland's unfinished business for 2017 isn't winning the division. It's winning the World Series. 
Two AL teams figured to make that tough. The Boston Red Sox began the winter as a good team and got better after adding Chris Sale and Tyler Thornburg. The Houston Astros also began the winter as a good team and got better with Josh Reddick, Brian McCann and Charlie Morton. Both the Red Sox (93 wins) and the Astros (90 wins) were projected to win more games than Cleveland.
That's changed. Encarnacion's signing has boosted the Indians' projection to 92 wins. They're right there with the Red Sox and Astros on paper, and even that undersells their World Series aspirations.

This is a team that just won a division title without virtually any help from star outfielder Michael Brantley and only half a season of Andrew Miller's dominance out of the bullpen. They also won a pennant without any help from Carlos Carrasco and Danny Salazar in the postseason.
They'll all be back in 2017, and it's certainly worth noting that guys like Francisco Lindor, Jason Kipnis, Corey Kluber and Cody Allen haven't gone anywhere. Neither has Terry Francona, who just won his second Manager of the Year award in four seasons in Cleveland.
Signing Encarnacion was really the only big move the Indians needed to make. He obviously helps them on a macro level. On a micro level, he could be a weapon against Boston's ace lefties (Sale and David Price) and a terror at the bandbox that is Minute Maid Park in any potential postseason matchups.
The catch, such as it is, is that he's costing the Indians more money than they've ever spent on a free agent. He's also costing them the No. 25 pick in the 2017 draft. This is a heavy price for the normally thrifty Indians to pay.
But if ever there were time for them to do so, it's right now.
For one thing, the club's financials are in better shape than they have been in some time. According to Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports, executives estimate their trip to the World Series was worth "tens of millions" of extra dollars. Rosenthal also noted Cleveland "almost certainly" benefited from welcoming Kansas City entrepreneur John Sherman as a minority ownership partner. 
As for the lost draft pick, some consolation there is that No. 25 is a relatively low pick. Further consolation is that now is not the time for Cleveland to worry about stockpiling young talent.
Their goal is to win it all right now. They had enough to do that before signing Encarnacion. Now they have everything they need.
 
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. 


Rumors, rumors and more rumors. They are the fuel for baseball fanatics in the coldest months and the fodder for discussion when baseball is generally overshadowed by football, basketball and hockey.
Below, we'll break down some of the rumors surrounding the biggest sluggers on the market and predict their most likely destinations. 
    
If any Toronto Blue Jays fans were holding out hope that the team might reunite with slugger Jose Bautista, well, Jon Morosi of MLB Network likely splashed a big old bucket of cold water on those wishes:
Source: #BlueJays still have not made Jose Bautista a formal offer for more than the 1 year, $17.2 million QO. @MLB @MLBNetwork
 
Toronto's price may go up at some point and Bautista's down, of course. It's hard to say given how loaded the market remains with power hitters. Toronto likely took itself out of the Edwin Encarnacion market (more on him below), however, when it signed Kendrys Morales to be the team's designated hitter.
Encarnacion served as the team's designated hitter 86 times last season, more than any other player, per Nick Ashbourne of Sportsnet.
But there may yet be room for Bautista in Toronto's outfield, depending on how his cost settles in the market. It seems unlikely that Bautista will be back—if there was general interest from both sides, it's hard to imagine the Blue Jays wouldn't have made him a better offer—but it's probably not completely out of the realm of possibility just yet.
The Blue Jays, by signing Morales over Encarnacion, gave themselves financial flexibility, even if it was at the expense of lineup flexibility (Morales is not a position player at this point). That leaves a glimmer of possibility that Bautista might return. But it's just a glimmer.
I still believe Bautista could land with the Boston Red Sox if he's willing to sign a shorter deal and take less money than he might get elsewhere. After clearing some salary by trading Clay Buchholz to the Philadelphia Phillies, per Scott Lauber of ESPN.com, Boston has financial wiggle room. But that's wiggle room it would probably be wise to carry into the season, in case it needs to add a player via trade for a postseason run.
Prediction: Blue Jays
        
The aforementioned Encarnacion remains the top hitter on the market, and several teams are still in the running, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports. Among them, somewhat surprisingly, is the Oakland Athletics:
It isn’t known whether the A’s are just one of the likely bargain hunters at this point, but they’ve occasionally stepped out of character, like when they made a bold run at Adrian Beltre, offering him $65 million before he went to the rival Rangers for $80 million plus an option that took him to $96 million.
The A’s would not lose a first-round draft choice should they signed a top free agent like Encarnacion since they finished with one of the bottom 10 records last year.
The Blue Jays also remain in the running, per Heyman, though they seem likely to be long shots at this point. Cleveland remains a possibility, per Heyman, but it is trying to get a bargain price for a player like Encarnacion, Mike Napoli or Chris Carter, so it's hard to say how serious their interest is in Encarnacion.
Morosi adds the Rangers to the list of possible suitors:
#Rangers have discussed Edwin Encarnacion’s asking price with his agent, but unclear if he has offer from them on table, sources say. @MLB
 
Joel Sherman of the New York Post took the Red Sox out of the running, however:
Dombrowski told me in text that moving Buchholz's $13.5M wasn't about clearing $ to go after another big bat. Thus, no Encarnacion #Redsox
 
Encarnacion's big bat will land him a big payday. Thus far, however, the interest in his services isn't quite as frenzied as perhaps the slugger might have hoped it would be for a player with 34 or more home runs in five straight seasons.
Prediction: Rangers
      
Mark Trumbo is the remaining domino in the slugger market, and a return to the Baltimore Orioles is hardly guaranteed, per Roch Kubatko of MASNSports.com:
Fans asking about Trumbo/#orioles: talks stalled.  Offer off table.  But same was true with CD last winter and it worked out. Stay tuned
According to Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports, the other logical suitor for Trumbo at the moment seems to be the Colorado Rockies, though "sources say that the Rockies’ chances of signing him—at least for the moment—are unlikely."
The team signing Ian Desmond might have something to do with that, though if it finds a trade partner for the talented Charlie Blackmon and slides Desmond back into the outfield—rather than play him at first base—Trumbo would make more sense in Colorado.
That's a lot of potential dominoes to fall, though. Which makes Baltimore the most likely destination for Trumbo at this point.
Prediction: Orioles
       
You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.

Let's pretend for a moment that each MLB team's offseason was evaluated in a way similar to that of a college football or basketball program. Free-agent signings and trade additions would be assigned a rating from 1-5 on the "star" scale, and the complete class of new additions would be graded from there.
Rather than assessing how well needs were filled, how much money was spent by each team or how much cumulative talent was added compared to who was lost in free agency and trades, the focus would solely be on how much overall talent was added to the roster.
First, we need to decide what constitutes a 5-star player, 4-star player and so on. Here is my take on who belongs in each category:
From there, points were awarded to each recruit as listed above, and each team's total recruit point total was determined. Players were graded based solely on their expected contributions during the 2017 season, so prospects were evaluated on their expected big league contributions for the upcoming season and not their overall ceiling.
Teams were then ordered from worst to first based on the overall level of talent they've added so far this winter. The tiebreaker in the case of two teams having the same score was which team has added more high-star players.
For example, a team that added one 5-star player (10 points) ranks ahead of a team that added one 4-star player and one 3-star player (10 points).
As with college rosters, returning players are not considered recruits, so anyone re-signing with the team he played for last year was not considered for this. That means no Yoenis Cespedes, Kenley Jansen, Justin Turner, Rich Hill or Carlos Gomez, among others.
The end goal here was simply to put a different and fun spin on evaluating what each MLB team has done so far this offseason. So take this for what it is, and enjoy.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (0):2-Star (1): RP Ben Rowen
Total: 1 point
    
Offseason Overview
While slugger Yoenis Cespedes is back on a four-year, $110 million deal and second baseman Neil Walker also returns after accepting his qualifying offer, it's been a quiet offseason as far as new additions to the New York Mets roster is concerned.
Sidearm righty Ben Rowen is the only notable name so far, and he'll be in camp as a non-roster invitee after posting a 2.33 ERA and 1.22 WHIP in 45 appearances at the Triple-A level.
The 28-year-old has pitched to a 1.85 ERA and 1.02 WHIP over 270 minor league appearances.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (0):2-Star (4): IF Omar Infante, RP A.J. Achter, RP William Cuevas, RP Daniel Stumpf (Rule 5)
Total: 4 points
    
Offseason Overview
A potential sell-off by the Detroit Tigers was one of the biggest stories at the start of the offseason. Instead, they've been as quiet as any team in the league.
The only notable additions here are non-roster invitees and Rule 5 selection Daniel Stumpf.
Veteran infielder Omar Infante will provide some organizational depth behind trade candidate Ian Kinsler, while right-handed relievers William Cuevas and A.J. Achter both saw the majors in a limited capacity last season.
Stumpf, 25, was selected in the Rule 5 draft for the second consecutive year and he'll get a long look for a bullpen spot. The left-hander has pitched to a 3.22 ERA in 139 minor league appearances, averaging 8.9 strikeouts per nine innings.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (0):2-Star (4): C Juan Graterol, C Stuart Turner (Rule 5), UT Arismendy Alcantara, RP Lucas Luetge
Total: 4 points
    
Offseason Overview
It's been an expectedly slow offseason for a Cincinnati Reds team that is still in the early stages of rebuilding, with just a handful of under-the-radar additions.
Utility man Arismendy Alcantara showed some intriguing potential as a rookie with the Chicago Cubs in 2014 and he's still just 25 years old. He has the best chance of making the Opening Day roster of the new additions.
Meanwhile, Juan Graterol and Rule 5 pickup Stuart Turner are set to battle for the No. 3 catcher slot, though given the recent injury history of Devin Mesoraco it's not out of the question to think one or both could see time in the majors.
Lefty reliever Lucas Luetge posted a 3.98 ERA with 12 holds in 63 appearances with the Seattle Mariners as a rookie in 2012. He's failed to duplicate that success in subsequent seasons but will get a look this spring.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (1): OF Matt Joyce2-Star (3): 1B/OF Chris Parmelee, OF Jaff Decker, SP Josh Smith
Total: 6 points
   
Offseason Overview
Matt Joyce made good as a non-roster invitee last spring, earning a spot on the Pittsburgh Pirates roster and posting an .866 OPS with 10 doubles, 13 home runs and 42 RBI over 293 plate appearances.
Though he's strictly a platoon player with a .185/.265/.310 career line against left-handed pitching, that impressive showing was enough to land him a two-year, $11 million deal from the Oakland Athletics.
Chris Parmelee will be competing with Mark Canha for a bench spot as a first baseman/outfielder. Even if he doesn't break camp with the team he'll be useful depth in Triple-A.
Outfielder Jaff Decker (52 PA, 8 H, 1 2B) and right-hander Josh Smith (59.2 IP, 4.68 ERA) both saw time in the majors last season but will be long shots for a roster spot.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (1): 1B/OF Chris Colabello2-Star (4): C Erik Kratz, RP Nick Goody, RP Edwin Escobar, RP Hoby Milner (Rule 5)
Total: 7 points
    
Offseason Overview
As the Cleveland Indians continue to search for a right-handed slugger, it's been a slow offseason so far with only a few notable depth pieces added to the mix.
Chris Colabello put together a huge season in 2015, posting an .886 OPS with 19 doubles, 15 home runs and 54 RBI in 360 plate appearances. He spent the bulk of this past season serving an 80-game PED suspension, though, and he was forced to settle for a minor league deal, per Jordan Bastian of MLB.com.
Catcher Erik Kratz will take over as the No. 3 catcher on the organizational depth chart—behind Yan Gomes and Roberto Perez—after Chris Gimenez refused a minor league assignment and elected free agency.
Former top prospect Edwin Escobar, Rule 5 pick Hoby Milner and right-hander Nick Goody—acquired Tuesday in a trade with the New York Yankees, per Zack Meisel of Cleveland.com—will all get a chance to secure a bullpen spot this spring.
Milner, 25, split last season between Double-A and Triple-A in the Philadelphia Phillies organization and posted a 2.49 ERA, 1.11 WHIP and 10.5 K/9 over 49 appearances.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): OF Jorge Soler3-Star (0):2-Star (0):
Total: 7 points
    
Offseason Overview
The only notable move for the Kansas City Royals so far this offseason was a big one, as they flipped closer Wade Davis to the Chicago Cubs in exchange for outfielder Jorge Soler.
While he has yet to live up to lofty expectations, the 24-year-old Soler comes with four remaining years of team control and the same dynamic physical tools that made him a top prospect.
Staying healthy has been an issue in recent seasons, and a full-time move to DH could help keep him on the field and allow him to tap into his vast offensive potential without worrying about his defensive shortcomings.
It was a smart move for a small-market team like the Royals that needs to get creative when it comes to adding impact pieces.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (1): SP Jhoulys Chacin2-Star (5): OF Rafael Ortega, SP Zach Lee, C Luis Torrens (Rule 5), IF Allen Cordoba (Rule 5), RP Miguel Diaz (Rule 5)
Total: 8 points
    
Offseason Overview
With little in the way of starting pitching, the San Diego Padres announced on Tuesday that they have re-signed left-hander Clayton Richard and added right-hander Jhoulys Chacin.
Chacin could prove to be a steal on a one-year, $1.75 million deal if he can hold down a rotation spot, and there's reason to believe he can after he closed out the 2016 season with a 0.75 ERA and 0.92 WHIP over his final four starts.
Aside from those signings, the Padres' biggest splash was made during the Rule 5 draft, when they traded for the first two picks in right-hander Miguel Diaz and catcher Luis Torrens and then grabbed infielder Allen Cordoba with the No. 3 pick.
Also worth keeping an eye on is right-hander Zach Lee.
Given a massive $5.25 million bonus by the Los Angeles Dodgers after going No. 28 overall in the 2010 draft, Lee ranked among the top 100 prospects in the league three different times, per Baseball America. He's had little in the way of MLB success, but the 25-year-old is an intriguing lottery ticket.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0): 4-Star (0):3-Star (1): SP Andrew Cashner2-Star (5): 3B Will Middlebrooks, SP Tyrell Jenkins, SP Tyler Wagner, SP Allen Webster, RP Mike Hauschild (Rule 5)
Total: 8 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Texas Rangers entered the offseason with several items to check off the to-do list. Finding a viable No. 3 starter to slot behind Cole Hamels and Yu Darvish was chief among them.
In a market that was not exactly overflowing with quality arms, the Rangers settled on signing Andrew Cashner to a one-year, $10 million deal.
The 30-year-old, who was once traded from the Cubs to the Padres in exchange for Anthony Rizzo, has never quite put it all together over a full season but he offers more upside than most of the available options this winter.
Former top prospects Tyrell Jenkins and Allen Webster will be among the more intriguing arms in camp, though it's unlikely they fill anything more than a depth role.
The same goes for Will Middlebrooks, who joins his fourth team in the past four seasons after looking like a star in the making early on in his career with the Boston Red Sox. He did post an .816 OPS with 22 doubles and 10 home runs in 264 plate appearances in Triple-A last season.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (2): 1B/OF Darin Ruf, RP Vidal Nuno2-Star (2): OF Tyler Holt, UT Darnell Sweeney
Total: 8 points
    
Offseason Overview
The return of closer Kenley Jansen was obviously a boon to the Los Angeles Dodgers bullpen, but they also added left-hander Vidal Nuno in a significantly less-heralded move.
Nuno made a career-high 55 appearances last season with the Seattle Mariners, posting a 3.53 ERA, 1.33 WHIP and a strong 51-to-11 strikeout-to-walk ratio over 58.2 innings.
In what was the first notable trade of the offseason, the team sent veteran Howie Kendrick to the Philadelphia Phillies in exchange for Darin Ruf and Darnell Sweeney.
Ruf has crushed left-handed pitching to the tune of a .921 OPS over the course of his career and he'll battle Scott Van Slyke for a bench spot and pinch-hit role.
Sweeney began his career in the Dodgers organization before he was traded to the Phillies in the deal that brought Chase Utley to Los Angeles. His versatility could earn him time in a utility role at some point.
Outfielder Tyler Holt saw significant playing time with the Reds last season and provides useful depth after hitting .235/.327/.296 over 208 plate appearances.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): RP Daniel Hudson3-Star (0):2-Star (2): RP Lisalverto Bonilla, RP Tyler Webb (Rule 5)
Total: 9 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Pittsburgh Pirates finally made their first big addition of the offseason on Tuesday, signing reliever Daniel Hudson to a two-year, $11 million deal, according to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports.
Passan points to the impending free agency of Tony Watson and his status as a trade candidate as one reason the Pirates were an attractive landing spot, giving him a potential path to the closer's role.
A former starter who won 16 games in 2011, Hudson was derailed by injuries before resurrecting his career in a bullpen role.
In 134 appearances over the past two seasons, he's posted a 4.50 ERA, 1.38 WHIP and 9.1 K/9 while recording nine saves and 38 holds.
His 3.64 FIP during that time is a big reason why he was such a hot commodity on the free-agent market, as he could benefit greatly from a change of scenery.
Lisalverto Bonilla and Rule 5 pick Tyler Webb will all be looking to join Hudson in a new-look bullpen.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): C Wilson Ramos3-Star (0):2-Star (3): C Michael McKenry, OF Shane Peterson, RP Kevin Gadea (Rule 5)
Total: 10 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Tampa Bay Rays finally made a significant addition at the catcher position, signing Wilson Ramos to a two-year, $12.5 million deal.
Ramos was positioning himself for a significantly larger payday when he suffered a torn ACL on Sept. 26 that effectively ended his season.
The 29-year-old was hitting .307/.354/.496 with 25 doubles, 22 home runs and 80 RBI at the time of the injury. It's unclear exactly when he'll return, with an original estimated recovery time of six to eight months, per Jorge Castillo of the Washington Post.
Michael McKenry and Shane Peterson both have a fair amount of MLB experience under their belts and provide solid organizational depth, while Rule 5 pick Kevin Gadea will be one of the most intriguing arms in camp.
The 22-year-old posted a 2.36 ERA and a 95-to-14 K/BB ratio over 68.2 innings last season, but he's made just 10 appearances above rookie ball.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): C Jason Castro3-Star (0):2-Star (3): 1B Ben Paulsen, OF J.B. Shuck, RP Justin Haley (Rule 5)
Total: 10 points
    
Offseason Overview
While Jason Castro may not jump off the page as a clear "4-star"-caliber player, his value is clear after he inked a three-year, $24.5 million deal.
"Catching was a focus of ours and Jason was a target early on, and not just from a player's standpoint," chief baseball officer Derek Falvey told Rhett Bollinger of MLB.com. "A lot has been made about his defense, but we really look into the background of these guys. It's important for the culture of our team. He checked every box and then some."
The 29-year-old has never matched his breakout 2013 season, but he's tallied at least 10 home runs and 30 RBI each of the past four years and ranks as one of the best pitch-framers in baseball, per StatCorner.
Ben Paulsen is an interesting non-roster invitee. He's just a year removed from posting a .787 OPS with 19 doubles, 11 home runs and 49 RBI as the starting first baseman for the Colorado Rockies.
Outfielder J.B. Shuck has also seen significant playing time in the majors the past two seasons while suiting up with the Chicago White Sox, hitting .229/.285/.319 over 406 plate appearances and manning all three outfield spots.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): C Welington Castillo3-Star (0): 2-Star (5): OF Logan Schafer, OF Adam Brett Walker, SP/RP Logan Verrett, OF Aneury Tavarez (Rule 5), OF Anthony Santander (Rule 5)
Total: 12 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Baltimore Orioles have had a relatively quiet offseason to this point, failing to address their need for a corner outfielder as well as a power bat to replace the departing duo of Mark Trumbo and Pedro Alvarez.
They have found a new starting catcher, though, signing Welington Castillo to a one-year, $6 million deal that includes a $7 million player option for 2018.
A surprise non-tender by the Arizona Diamondbacks, Castillo gets low marks for his pitch-framing and he allowed an NL-high 10 passed balls last season. However, he has some of the best power at the catcher position and he did a good job controlling the running game last year, catching 38 percent of base stealers.
As it stands, there's a good chance one of Aneury Tavarez and Anthony Santander will follow in the footsteps of Joey Rickard and stick as a Rule 5 outfielder. That could always change depending on what the team does the rest of the offseason.
Keep an eye on slugger Adam Brett Walker, a former Minnesota Twins prospect who has big-time power and strikes out a ton. If there's one team that can fully utilize his skill set, it's the Orioles.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (2): 1B Eric Thames, 3B Travis Shaw2-Star (7): C Jett Bandy, 2B Eric Sogard, UT Ivan De Jesus Jr., SP Tommy Milone, RP Steven Geltz, RP Blake Parker, RP Ryan Webb
Total: 13 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Milwaukee Brewers picked up perhaps the most intriguing lottery ticket on the market when they signed Eric Thames to a three-year, $16 million deal.
A .250/.296/.431 career hitter over 684 career MLB plate appearances, Thames has spent the past three seasons absolutely raking in the Korean Baseball Organization:
Granted the KBO is a notoriously hitter-friendly league, but those numbers are impossible to ignore. Heck, he was the first 40/40 player in KBO history in 2015.
Joining him in the Brewers' infield will be Travis Shaw, who was acquired from the Boston Red Sox in exchange for reliever Tyler Thornburg.
Shaw has five years of team control left, making him a terrific addition for the rebuilding Brewers even after an up-and-down campaign.
All seven players listed in the "2-star" category could see the majors at some point in 2017, with Tommy Milone an intriguing swingman option and bounce-back candidate.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (0):3-Star (4): IF Yoan Moncada, SP Derek Holland, SP Lucas Giolito, SP Reynaldo Lopez2-Star (3): OF Rymer Liriano, RP Dylan Covey (Rule 5), RP Giovanni Soto
Total: 15 points
    
Offseason Overview
This seems like a good time for a reminder on this sentence from the introduction:
"Players were graded based solely on their expected contributions during the 2017 season, so prospects were evaluated on their expected big league contributions for the upcoming season and not their overall ceiling."
That's important for the Chicago White Sox, as Yoan Moncada, Lucas Giolito and Reynaldo Lopez—as well as pitcher Michael Kopech—all have a chance to develop into 5-star-caliber players when all is said and done.
For the time being, though, it would be wise to temper expectations for what kind of impact those prospects might make in 2017.
Trading one of Brett Lawrie or Todd Frazier would clear a path for Moncada to immediate playing time, while Giolito and Lopez would both benefit from the team moving Jose Quintana.
For now, it's hard to slot them above a 3-star, though.
Meanwhile, as the team starts to rebuild, left-hander Derek Holland is a good addition on a one-year, $6 million deal.
Provided he can stay healthy, he'll eat innings and provide a veteran presence while potentially emerging as a viable trade chip come July.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0): 4-Star (2): 1B/OF Ian Desmond, RP Mike Dunn3-Star (0):2-Star (1): IF Daniel Castro
Total: 15 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Colorado Rockies' decision to sign Ian Desmond to a five-year, $70 million deal was viewed by many as a precursor to another move to come.
Charlie Blackmon and Carlos Gonzalez have been popular names on the trade market for the better part of two years, and signing Desmond appeared to give them the freedom to finally pull the trigger on moving one of them.
However, it's looking more and more like the front office was serious when they said that Desmond—who played shortstop his entire career before moving to center field last season—will be the team's primary first baseman in 2017.
"There's never been any desire for us to trade Carlos (Gonzalez) or Charlie (Blackmon)," general manager Jeff Bridich told MLB Network Radio.
An interesting move for a team that is overflowing with offense and still in serious need of pitching help.
They did land one quality arm in left-hander Mike Dunn, who signed a three-year, $19 million deal.
He'll replace free agent Boone Logan and join Jake McGee as the primary lefty options out of what was the league's worst bullpen.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): DH Kendrys Morales3-Star (1): IF/OF Steve Pearce2-Star (6): SP T.J. House, SP Brett Oberholtzer, RP Jeff Beliveau, RP Leonel Campos, RP Dominic Leone, RP Glenn Sparkman (Rule 5)
Total: 16 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Toronto Blue Jays began the offseason with significant holes to fill on the offensive side of things as Edwin Encarnacion, Jose Bautista and Michael Saunders all reached free agency.
There's still work to be done on that front, but they have added a pair of quality bats in Kendrys Morales and Steve Pearce.
Morales, 33, landed a three-year, $33 million deal after back-to-back strong seasons with the Kansas City Royals. He posted an .821 OPS while averaging 32 doubles, 26 home runs and 100 RBI.
He's played just 16 games at first base over the past two seasons, though, so he'll likely DH on an everyday basis.
That's where the versatility of Pearce becomes valuable.
He'll serve as a platoon partner for Justin Smoak at first base, while also seeing time at both corner outfield spots and serving as depth at second and third base.
A two-year, $12.5 million deal looks like a steal after he posted an .867 OPS with 13 doubles and 13 home runs over 302 plate appearances in 2016.
After hitting on Rule 5 pick Joe Biagini a year ago, they'll be hoping for similar luck with right-hander Glenn Sparkman, who had a 65-to-10 K/BB ratio over 60.1 innings.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): RP Mark Melancon4-Star (0):3-Star (0):2-Star (6): C Tim Federowicz, IF Jimmy Rollins, SP Josh Johnson, RP Jose Dominguez, RP Bryan Morris, RP Neil Ramirez
Total: 16 points
    
Offseason Overview
The San Francisco Giants' desire to add a top-tier closer was the worst-kept secret of the offseason.
Mark Melancon looked like the team's top target from the get-go and they eventually got their man with a four-year, $62 million deal.
That's considerably less than it cost to sign Aroldis Chapman (five years and $86 million) or Kenley Jansen (five years and $80 million), but Melancon has been every bit as effective when it comes to closing out games.
Here's how the three stack up since the start of 2013:
As for non-roster invitees, veteran infielder Jimmy Rollins will compete for the utility infield job with Ehire Adrianza and right-hander Bryan Morris should have a real shot at landing the last spot in the bullpen.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): CF Adam Eaton4-Star (0):3-Star (1): C Derek Norris2-Star (5): IF Emmanuel Burriss, SP Jacob Turner, RP Austin Adams, RP Tim Collins, RP Jimmy Cordero
Total: 18 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Washington Nationals gave up a ton to acquire Adam Eaton from the Chicago White Sox during the winter meetings, but he earns the 5-star distinction after posting a 6.2 WAR last season.
Much of that value was tied to his defense in right field and that will likely take a hit with his move to center, but he contributed plenty on the offensive side as well with a .284/.362/.428 line that included 52 extra-base hits, 14 stolen bases and 91 runs scored.
The 28-year-old also has an incredibly team-friendly contract as he'll earn $38.4 million over the next five seasons, assuming his two option years are exercised.
Catcher Derek Norris was acquired from the San Diego Padres to replace the departing Wilson Ramos behind the plate, though there's no guarantee he'll be the team's starting catcher by the time spring training rolls around.
There has been "rampant speculation" around the league that Matt Wieters will eventually land with the Nationals, according to Buster Olney of ESPN.
Left-hander Tim Collins is an interesting non-roster flier as he tries to make his way back from a pair of Tommy John surgeries.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): RP Aroldis Chapman4-Star (1): DH Matt Holliday3-Star (0):2-Star (2): IF Ruben Tejada, RP Jason Gurka
Total: 19 points
    
Offseason Overview
After a memorable three-month stint with the Chicago Cubs, Aroldis Chapman returned to the New York Yankees on a five-year, $86 million deal.
That stands as the new record for the largest contract given to a relief pitcher and it gives the Yankees a dominant anchor in a bullpen that also features Tyler Clippard and Dellin Betances.
Aside from Chapman, the Yankees' focus this winter has been on adding veteran talent on short-term deals as they continue to work toward a bright future.
Matt Holliday has been the one notable addition on that front, agreeing to a one-year, $13 million deal to serve as the team's primary DH.
The 36-year-old missed time last season with a thumb injury and has battled quad issues as well in recent seasons, but he remains a potent bat when healthy.
Over 426 plate appearances in 2016, he posted a .782 OPS with 20 doubles, 20 home runs and 62 RBI and he's tallied at least 20 home runs in 10 of the past 11 seasons.
Ruben Tejada will compete with Ronald Torreyes for the utility infield job.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): SP Taijuan Walker3-Star (3): C Jeff Mathis, SS Ketel Marte, RP Fernando Rodney2-Star (4): OF Oswaldo Arcia, OF Jeremy Hazelbaker, RP Keyvius Sampson, RP Tyler Jones (Rule 5)
Total: 20 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Arizona Diamondbacks have had a busy offseason, albeit nowhere near as splashy as a year ago when they broke the bank to sign Zack Greinke and sold the farm to acquire Shelby Miller.
The big move so far has been the trade that sent Jean Segura to the Seattle Mariners in exchange for right-hander Taijuan Walker and shortstop Ketel Marte.
Walker, 24, still has as much potential as any young pitcher in the game and he's capable of dominating on any given night. It's simply a matter of finding some level of consistency every fifth day.
As for Marte, he burst onto the scene with a .283/.351/.402 line over 247 plate appearances as a rookie but struggled to duplicate that success this past season and found himself back in the minors as a result.
If nothing else, the 23-year-old was an attractive buy-low candidate and he should get a chance to win a middle infield job this spring.
Catcher Jeff Mathis will bring a steadying presence to the clubhouse and pitching staff, while Fernando Rodney will get the first crack at filling the vacant closer's role.
Keep an eye on Rule 5 pick Tyler Jones, who posted a 2.17 ERA, 1.23 WHIP and 13.2 K/9 while saving 11 games in a full season at the Double-A level. He might be the most MLB-ready among the Rule 5 arms.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): SP Bartolo Colon3-Star (3): IF Sean Rodriguez, SP R.A. Dickey, SP Jaime Garcia2-Star (5): C Tuffy Gosewisch, SP John Danks, RP Luke Jackson, RP Armando Rivero (R5), RP Jordan Walden
Total: 21 points
    
Offseason Overview
In a matter of hours, the Atlanta Braves raised the average age of their starting rotation by roughly a decade with the additions of Bartolo Colon and R.A. Dickey on one-year deals.
Those signings make perfect sense for a rebuilding team looking to take some pressure off a young starting rotation as both are durable veterans capable of stepping into a leadership role while eating innings in the process.
The Braves also picked up left-hander Jaime Garcia, who finally managed to stay healthy in 2016.
That good health didn't translate to on-field results, though, as he posted a 4.67 ERA over 171.2 innings. That said, he's just a year removed from going 10-6 with a 2.43 ERA and 1.05 WHIP over 20 starts and was a great buy-low pickup.
Sean Rodriguez is as versatile as any player in baseball and fresh off the best offensive season of his career, so he was well worth the two-year, $11.5 million investment.
John Danks and Jordan Walden will be two comeback stories to track this spring, while hard-throwing Luke Jackson could benefit from the change of scenery after failing to live up to his top-prospect billing with the Rangers.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): CF Dexter Fowler4-Star (1): RP Brett Cecil3-Star (0):2-Star (5): C Eric Fryer, OF Todd Cunningham, SP Kendry Flores, RP John Gant, RP Zach Phillips
Total: 22 points
    
Offseason Overview
The market was slow to develop for Dexter Fowler a year ago and he wound up back with the Chicago Cubs on what was essentially a one-year, $13 million deal.
A standout season offensively (.840 OPS, 45 XBH, 84 R) and marked improvement in his defense (-12 defensive runs saved in 2015, 1 DRS in 2016) made him a hot commodity this time around and he ended up landing a five-year, $82.5 million contract.
"From Day 1, this was always someone that we were hoping to sign," GM John Mozeliak told reporters. "When we talked a couple of nights ago on the phone, we explained to him how excited we are for how well we believe he's going to fit into our lineup and fit into our clubhouse."
The other big signing this offseason was lefty reliever Brett Cecil, who inked a four-year, $30.5 million deal to round out the relief corps.
Southpaw setup man Kevin Siegrist is more effective against righties than lefties and Zach Duke is expected to miss the entire season following Tommy John surgery, so there was a clear need for a left-hander and they got a good one in Cecil.
Eric Fryer returns to provide some catching depth and he may very well wind up being the backup, assuming the team prefers to return prospect Carson Kelly to the minors where he can play regularly.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (1): RP Brad Ziegler3-Star (4): C A.J. Ellis, SP Jeff Locke, SP Edinson Volquez, RP Junichi Tazawa2-Star (3): OF Matt den Dekker, SP Kyle Lobstein, RP Elvis Araujo, RP Javy Guerra
Total: 23 points
    
Offseason Overview
The Miami Marlins set out this offseason with a plan to bolster the bullpen, in hopes the relief corps could prop up a suspect starting rotation.
While they whiffed on top target Kenley Jansen, they did pick up a pair of quality late-inning arms in Brad Ziegler and Junichi Tazawa to join incumbents David Phelps, Kyle Barraclough and A.J. Ramos.
Ziegler is a ground-ball machine who provides some insurance for Ramos with ample closing experience, while Tazawa has averaged 64 appearances with a 3.53 ERA and 9.2 K/9 over the past four seasons with the Red Sox.
Catcher A.J. Ellis will serve as backup to incumbent J.T. Realmuto as he's reunited with manager Don Mattingly. He should have a positive impact on both the development of Realmuto and the young pitching staff.
Edinson Volquez ($9 million) and Jeff Locke ($3.025 million) were signed to one-year deals to fill out the starting rotation and both offer some decent upside relative to their price tag.
Outfielder Matt den Dekker joins his third NL East team in the past four years.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (2): 2B Danny Espinosa, OF Cameron Maybin3-Star (2): C Martin Maldonado, SP Jesse Chavez2-Star (3): OF Ryan LaMarre, RP Brooks Pounders, RP Kirby Yates
Total: 23 points
    
Offseason Overview
The additions of Danny Espinosa and Cameron Maybin fill two positions—second base and left field—that were absolute black holes offensively for the Los Angeles Angels a year ago:
Espinosa doesn't provide much in the way of batting average, but he's a slick fielder with 20-homer power. He'll be fun to watch up the middle with Andrelton Simmons.
Maybin has enjoyed a career resurrection in recent seasons and he's coming off a terrific year with the Tigers that saw him hit .315/.383/.418 over 391 plate appearances.
Catcher Martin Maldonado was acquired from the Milwaukee Brewers in exchange for fellow backstop Jett Bandy, with his appealing coming from his defense and pitch-framing abilities.
Swingman Jesse Chavez was also added to the pitching staff on a one-year, $5.75 million deal and he'll have a chance to win the No. 5 starter job this spring after pitching exclusively in relief last season.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0):4-Star (2): IF/OF Howie Kendrick, RP Joaquin Benoit3-Star (2): SP Clay Buchholz, RP Pat Neshek2-Star (5): C Bryan Holaday, IF Pedro Florimon, OF Daniel Nava, RP Sean Burnett, RP David Rollins
Total: 25 points
    
Offseason Overview
As the Philadelphia Phillies continue rebuilding, they've done a nice job filling out the roster with veteran talent this offseason.
Howie Kendrick will likely be the team's everyday left fielder after serving in a super utility role of sorts last season with the Dodgers. His OPS dipped to a career-low .691 last season, but some defensive stability could lead to a bounce-back season at the plate.
Relievers Joaquin Benoit and Pat Neshek bring experience to a relatively young bullpen and Benoit will get a chance to compete with Jeanmar Gomez and Hector Neris for the closer's job this spring.
Perhaps the most intriguing addition is Clay Buchholz, who was acquired from the Boston Red Sox on Tuesday, according to Scott Lauber of ESPN.com.
The 32-year-old struggled mightily to open the 2016 season, going 2-5 with a 6.35 ERA over his first 10 starts to lose his spot in the starting rotation.
However, he was 5-1 with a 3.22 ERA and 1.11 WHIP in 58.2 innings after the All-Star break, including a strong month of September in which he rejoined the rotation and went 3-0 with a 3.14 ERA and four quality starts in five games.
He's in the final season of his contract and could turn into this year's Jeremy Hellickson if everything breaks right.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): RP Wade Davis4-Star (2): OF Jon Jay, RP Koji Uehara3-Star (0):2-Star (2): RP Brian Duensing, RP Caleb Smith (R5)
Total: 26 points
    
Offseason Overview
Despite losing center fielder Dexter Fowler, starter Jason Hammel, closer Aroldis Chapman and fellow reliever Travis Wood, the Chicago Cubs really didn't need to do anything drastic this offseason.
That hasn't stopped them from making a splash, though.
All-Star closer Wade Davis was acquired from the Royals in exchange for Jorge Soler, who appeared to be the odd-man out in a crowded outfield.
The team closed the door on a potential reunion with Fowler when Jon Jay agreed to a one-year, $8 million deal to serve as a platoon partner for Albert Almora Jr. in center field.
Jay missed time last season with a broken forearm, posting a .728 OPS with 26 doubles in 374 plate appearances as one of the more productive hitters on the Padres roster.
Looking to further bolster the relief corps and provide some insurance for Davis, who made a pair of trips to the disabled list last season with forearm injury, the Cubs also added Koji Uehara on a one-year, $6 million deal.
The 41-year-old has 93 career saves. As long as his splitter is still splitting he should be an effective late-inning option.
With Wood likely to sign elsewhere and Mike Montgomery expected to move to the rotation, Brian Duensing and Rule 5 pick Caleb Smith join Rob Zastryzny as the top lefty relief options in the pen.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): SP Chris Sale4-Star (2): 1B Mitch Moreland, RP Tyler Thornburg3-Star (0):2-Star (3): IF Josh Rutledge (Rule 5), 3B Matt Dominguez, OF Junior Lake
Total: 27 points
    
Offseason Overview
No one has added a bigger piece of the puzzle this offseason than the Boston Red Sox with the addition of left-hander Chris Sale.
While it cost a king's ransom in prospects, Sale is unquestionably one of the best pitchers in the game. The fact that he's owed a comically reasonable $38 million over the next three years only adds to his value.
The bullpen also picked up a key arm in Tyler Thornburg, one of the most underrated setup men in baseball this past season while pitching for the Brewers.
The 28-year-old tallied 13 saves and 20 holds while pitching to a 2.15 ERA, 0.94 WHIP and 12.1 K/9 and he too comes with team control for the next three seasons.
Mitch Moreland has been the biggest free-agent signing to this point and he'll supplant Hanley Ramirez as the starting first baseman, with HanRam taking over as the primary DH.
Moreland has at least 20 home runs and 60 RBI in three of the past four seasons, is undoubtedly an upgrade defensively at first base and comes at the very economic price of $5.5 million on a one-year deal.
Infielder Josh Rutledge elected free agency after being outrighted by the Red Sox earlier this offseason, then signed a minor league deal with the Colorado Rockies, only to be brought back as one of the stranger Rule 5 selections in recent memory.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (0): 4-Star (3): C Brian McCann, OF Josh Reddick, DH Carlos Beltran3-Star (2): OF Nori Aoki, SP Charlie Morton2-Star (3): IF Reid Brignac, RP C.J. Riefenhauser, RP Ashur Tolliver
Total: 30 points
    
Offseason Overview
No one was busier in the early stages of the offseason than the Houston Astros.
Depending on your opinion of all three players, catcher Brian McCann and outfielders Josh Reddick and Carlos Beltran are all fringe 5-star players, so some may prefer to pencil the Astros into the No. 1 spot in these rankings.
That being said, McCann has declined both offensively and defensively, Reddick has had a hard time staying healthy and Beltran is entering his age-40 season, so all three received a 4-star distinction.
That's not to say the Astros have not improved dramatically this offseason, as all three are welcome additions to a lineup that already features the likes of Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa, George Springer, Evan Gattis and a budding star in Alex Bregman.
Charlie Morton was a nice buy-low reclamation project on a two-year, $14 million deal and he could certainly help the rotation situation if healthy.
Outfielder Nori Aoki was also a nice under-the-radar pickup claimed off waivers from the division-rival Seattle Mariners.
The 34-year-old had an up-and-down season in 2016 but finished strong with a .371/.429/.600 line in September.

'Recruit' Breakdown
5-Star (1): SS Jean Segura4-Star (0):3-Star (5): C Carlos Ruiz, IF/OF Danny Valencia, OF Mitch Haniger, RP Casey Fien, RP Marc Rzepczynski2-Star (7): IF/OF Taylor Motter, SP Chris Heston, SP Rob Whalen, RP Zac Curtis, RP Dean Kiekhefer, RP James Pazos, RP Ryan Weber
Total: 32 points
    
Offseason Overview
It's been another busy offseason for Seattle Mariners GM Jerry Dipoto.
Jean Segura is the big addition after a phenomenal season with the Diamondbacks, and the team gave up a good deal to acquire him with Taijuan Walker and Ketel Marte heading the other way.
The 26-year-old led the NL with 203 hits, posting a .319/.368/.499 line that included 41 doubles, 20 home runs, 64 RBI, 102 runs and 33 stolen bases for a 5.7 WAR.
Also acquired in that deal was outfielder Mitch Haniger, who will have a real shot at winning the starting left field job after posting a .999 OPS with 34 doubles, 25 home runs and 94 RBI between Double-A and Triple-A.
Veterans Carlos Ruiz and Danny Valencia will fill important bench roles, while Casey Fien and Marc Rzepczynski are steady arms to bolster the relief corps.
The team is still searching for another starting pitcher after trading Walker, but Chris Heston was a nice buy-low pickup from the San Francisco Giants.
    
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Projected salaries courtesy of MLB Trade Rumors. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted.

The Chicago Cubs finally won the World Series in 2016. And by looking at their roster, it sure looks like they can turn right around and win another in 2017.
So, they might as well set their sights on the more distant future—specifically on how long they can keep Kris Bryant around with a contract extension worthy of his talents.
The Cubs don't need their star third baseman to prove anything else. All he's done in the last four years is make everyone else look bad. Bryant was Baseball America's College Player of the Year and the No. 2 pick in the draft in 2013. He was the Minor League Player of the Year in 2014. He was the National League Rookie of the Year in 2015. This year, he was the NL MVP and a World Series champion.
Bryant already owns a .900 career OPS with 65 home runs and 21 stolen bases. The 24-year-old has been one of the most valuable players in baseball since 2015. He also holds a special place in the wins above replacement rankings for third basemen through two seasons:
At the risk of stating the obvious, here goes nothing: Bryant is not only the best player on the Cubs but just the kind of player they should want as their franchise cornerstone.

There's no hurry for the Cubs to extend Bryant. He's not arbitration-eligible until 2018. And thanks to some shady service-time manipulation, Bryant's not due for free agency until after the 2021 season.
But if nothing else, starting extension talks with Bryant would be a much-needed show of good faith by Chicago.
Though the Cubs were within their rights to keep him in the minors at the start of 2015 and thus extend his club control from six years to seven, Bryant and agent Scott Boras were miffed about it enough to file a grievance.
This spring, Bryant played the good soldier but also let slip his hope that baseball's next collective bargaining agreement would open a window for him to hit free agency earlier.

"I don't know if I should speak on any of that, just because I'm still young," he told Patrick Mooney of CSN Chicago in mid-March. "I'm still trying to figure out the process of how things work. And if that happens, that would be great."
Bryant didn't get his wish, as Mark Gonzales of the Chicago Tribune reported Dec. 2 that the new CBA did nothing to alter his situation. Regardless, it may not be long before he becomes considerably less amenable to signing an extension.
He is, after all, a Boras client. Such players have generally been exempt from the recent trend of teams locking up their homegrown stars with big extensions. Boras' preference is to take his guys to free agency, where the prices are higher.
And right now, the going rate for superstar free agents is close to skyrocketing.
It's all about the 2018-19 offseason. That's when Bryce Harper, Manny Machado, Josh Donaldson and other notables are due for free agency. The biggest contracts in baseball are worth around $25 million to $30 million per year. The 2018-19 offseason could boost that figure to $35 million to $40 million per year.
Once Bryant and Boras see such figures with Bryant only three years from his turn, there will be little chance they settle for a more team-friendly offer from the Cubs.
Now is just the right time for such an offer.
A ton of money will come off the Cubs' books after 2017. Also, the short distance between Bryant and his arbitration eligibility and the long distance between him and his free agency could make him willing to trade long-term earning power for immediate financial security.
The most obvious comparison to Bryant's situation is the one that preceded Mike Trout's signing a six-year, $144.5 million contract with the Los Angeles Angels in 2014.
That was not only a case of an elite young player who signed for big money, but Trout was also fresh off his first two full seasons and heading into his final pre-arbitration season. His extension bought out all three of his arbitration years and three free-agent seasons.

The money in Trout's deal ($24.1 million per year) is close to what Bryant and the Cubs could agree on. The difference is Bryant's older now than Trout was in 2014, which raises complications.
If Bryant were to sign a six-year contract that started in his first arbitration year in 2018, he'd be giving away only two free-agent years but also setting himself up to hit the market after his age-31 season in 2023. That's older than most teams like their free agents, which won't be lost on Boras.
The Cubs could settle for buying only one year of Bryant's free agency, of course. But if they're going to spend big on him this early, they'll want to ensure they get him for more than just one year longer than they're projected to. And since he's so far from free agency at this point, there's also the question of why the man himself would give up any free-agent years.
The best way around these issues? How about copying what the Miami Marlins did with Giancarlo Stanton?

The 13-year, $325 million contract Stanton signed in 2015 is known for being the largest in professional sports history. But due to the opt-out after 2020, it's really a six-year, $107 million contract with a seven-year, $218 million option. It will be a huge payday if Stanton serves the whole thing, but he has a window to even more riches if they're there for the taking.
Mind you, the Cubs couldn't get away with back-loading a similar deal as much as the Marlins did. Bryant's too good for that.
"Stanton is great, but for me, I'd rather have Bryant over any player in the game not named Mike Trout," one NL executive told John Perrotto of FanRag Sports in November.
But if the Cubs offered, say, $25 million per year for six years with an opt-out after 2023 and $30 million-plus per year afterward, they could soon have Bryant's signature on the dotted line. Such a deal would up the ante on the biggest contract in history and also give Bryant a chance to earn even more money.
Whether it's a shorter deal or a longer deal with an escape hatch, the numbers in any extension for Bryant are going to be either big or bigger. This is what he's earned after establishing himself as such a special talent, and the Cubs should be more than happy to oblige him.
If this isn't already a top priority, it should be sooner rather than later.
                
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked. Contract and payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.


This MLB offseason offered little in terms of impact pitchers. And as we look to round third base on it, any that were available are now off the market.
The big three closers—Mark Melancon (San Francisco Giants), Kenley Jansen (Los Angeles Dodgers) and Aroldis Chapman (New York Yankees)—all signed with teams. The Chicago White Sox sent starting pitcher Chris Sale to the Boston Red Sox, and the Kansas City Royals shipped closer Wade Davis to the Chicago Cubs.
It has left the market for pitchers looking like August in Death Valley.
No need to look toward a higher power for rain here. All it takes is a few willing executives to reinvigorate the pitching market. Given the climate, that may be advantageous for those holding pitching talent.
Let's take a look at some pitchers MLB teams should consider selling. 

With his 2015 Chicago White Sox rotation mate Chris Sale having already been dealt to the Boston Red Sox, Jose Quintana is another player who could command an elite package for Chicago.
Like Sale, Quintana is an upper-echelon left-handed arm under team control through the 2020 season. His contract has club options for 2019 and 2020. Don't be fooled by his .500 career record. Quintana received only 3.81 runs of support per game yet still managed to win 13 games in 2016.
Throughout his career, Quintana has been given little room for error playing opposite White Sox offenses that have generally struggled. Regardless, he had a career-low 3.20 ERA in 2016.
With the White Sox rebuilding, Quintana won't be able to contribute to the club in any significant way for the next several seasons. But for a contending team in 2017, he would immediately solidify the top of any rotation.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the New York Yankees are interested in Quintana. They would be the perfect partner for the White Sox, who should be looking for position-player prospects with four pitchers among MLB.com's top 100 prospects (Lucas Giolito, Reynaldo Lopez, Michael Kopech and Carson Fulmer). The Yankees, meanwhile, have five position players on the list (outfielder Clint Frazier, shortstop Gleyber Torres, middle infielder Jorge Mateo, outfielder Aaron Judge and outfielder Blake Rutherford). 

Typically, the time to deal relief pitching is near the trade deadline, when contending clubs are in a frenzy to strengthen their bullpens. But after a postseason that saw relievers impact the game in an unprecedented way, there's a newfound appreciation for the position.
That led to closers Mark Melancon, Kenley Jansen and Aroldis Chapman signing record deals this offseason. And it has led to an emphasis on trying to establish a quality bullpen before the season starts.
It gives rebuilding teams an opportune time to deal quality relievers. In the case of right-hander David Robertson, his value may never be higher.
Robertson has struggled in his two seasons with the White Sox, posting ERAs of 3.41 and 3.47 in 2015 and 2016, respectively. It's worth noting, though, that his 0.932 WHIP in 2015 was his lowest ever.
Nonetheless, at times during his career, Robertson has been a reliable shutdown reliever. With the Yankees in 2011, he posted an ERA of 1.08 and earned his lone All-Star appearance. There's still belief the 31-year-old has that ability.
Bruce Levine of 670 The Score in Chicago reported the Washington Nationals have shown interest in Robertson, and the Miami Marlins may pursue him as well. 
The White Sox could hold onto him in hopes he has a bounce-back year, increases his value and nets the team a better return closer to the 2017 trade deadline. That's a big risk, though. A third straight season in which he struggles could cause interest in him to wane.
Given that there is a market for him now, the prudent move would be to deal him.

Chris Archer's contract might be the best among baseball's starting pitchers. He's currently playing on a six-year, $25.5 million deal that runs through 2019 with team options for the 2020 and 2021 seasons.
The right-hander has ace-like potential, having posted ERAs of 3.22, 3.33 and 3.23 in three years heading into the 2016 season. Last season, though, his value took a hit, as he posted a 4.02 ERA and 1.242 WHIP.
Granted, that could have been an aberration. At least, that's what the Rays are hoping teams call it as they shop Archer and look for a package similar to the one the White Sox got for Sale, according to Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times.
Given his struggles in 2016, those demands may be unrealistic. Or it could just be an indication the Rays aren't that motivated to move Archer, who could help a contending Tampa Bay team down the line. It's possible the Rays would need to be overwhelmed by an offer to trade him.
There's interest, though. Mark Bowman of MLB.com indicated the Atlanta Braves might make a play to acquire the right-handed starter who is overflowing with potential.

There may not be a player in MLB whose potential is discussed more than Royals starting pitcher Yordano Ventura. When potential is talked about, though, it almost universally means that player has underwhelmed.
In 2016, Ventura had the worst season of his four-year MLB career, finishing with an ERA of 4.45 and a WHIP of 1.441.
At 25, there's still plenty of time for Ventura to develop into a top-of-the-rotation player. His fastball averaged 96.2 mph in 2016, according to FanGraphs. But Ventura only has a three-pitch repertoire, including a changeup and curveball.
It would behoove him to develop a fourth pitch, and there are teams out there who believe they might be able to help him do that. Brian McTaggart of MLB.com reported the Houston Astros have interest in Ventura.
Given his struggles, it might be time for the Royals to deal Ventura before he loses even more value. They need to concede it may not click for Ventura in Kansas City. Working against the club is Ventura's history of being a lightning rod for controversy.
He has gotten into a number of scuffles with White Sox players, exchanged words with Mike Trout and hit Baltimore Orioles third baseman Manny Machado in the back last season, prompting a benches-clearing brawl. Those are just the highlights of a litany of on-field exchanges between Ventura and opposing players.
Still, teams will often overlook such issues if a player's talent is overwhelming. If a team out there feels it can steer Ventura's career in a different direction, the Royals should discuss a deal.

This weak pitching market may be most advantageous to the Minnesota Twins as they consider whether to move starting pitcher Ervin Santana.
The Twins are entrenched in a long-term rebuild, which means that Santana, 34, has no place on this team. He could, however, bring his 3.38 ERA in 2016 to a contending team and seriously boost the front end of their rotation.
By no means does Santana come at a bargain. But a four-year, $55 million contract that runs through 2018 with a team option for 2019 won't scare teams off either.
He's reliable, too, having started at least 30 games in all but three seasons since his rookie year in 2005. But at his age, he could decline at any moment—a reason Minnesota should listen to any offer it gets for the righty. A precipitous drop in his play, common among pitchers in their mid-30s, would directly impact his trade value.
No specific teams have been linked to Santana, but talks could heat up nonetheless, given the current climate of the market.

Reliever Brad Hand might be a player the Padres should consider hanging onto. He led all MLB relievers in games (82), struck out 111 in 89.1 innings of work and had a 2.92 ERA in 2016. Hand, 26, is under team control until 2020, when he becomes a free agent.
Best of all, he's a lefty.
But those are all reasons why teams might present a rebuilding San Diego team with some enticing packages for Hand.
The Padres have no chance of winning the NL West, the same division in which the talented San Francisco Giants and Los Angeles Dodgers play. So holding onto Hand would be a long-term decision.
And sure, he could be a piece in a contending bullpen in future years. But he could also net a prospect return that could do even more to secure the organization's future.
This postseason certainly provided a lesson on the importance of relief pitching. But bullpen arms will never be the building blocks of a franchise. They're more like frosting on a cake, which always goes on last.
All of that means the Padres could seek position players or starting pitchers in return for Hand, who would upgrade any bullpen but notably be an important piece to a contending team.
That's why John Harper of the New York Daily News named Hand as a player the New York Mets could pursue, noting that the team previously showed interest in him.
It might require an overwhelming offer to convince San Diego to trade Hand. But perhaps if the Padres dangled him to contending teams, some might bite. 

The Arizona Diamondbacks and outfielder Oswaldo Arcia agreed to a deal on Tuesday, according to Jon Heyman of Today's Knuckleball. 
Aaron Gleeman of Baseball Prospectus later confirmed Heyman's report. The parameters of the deal have not been disclosed yet. 
Arcia has been unable to find regular playing time at the major league level throughout his first four professional seasons. 
After spending three years with the Minnesota Twins, Arcia was dealt to the Tampa Bay Rays, only to be put on waivers after 21 games. 
He was picked up by the Miami Marlins, who designated him for assignment after just two games, and finished the season with the San Diego Padres. 
Throughout the transaction-filled year, Arcia hit .203 with eight home runs and 23 RBI in 69 games. 
The 25-year-old has shown flashes of developing into a left-handed power bat, which is something that would be coveted by many teams, after he hit 20 home runs in 103 games with the Twins in 2014: 
However, his average and on-base percentage have made him an unreliable option as his career marks are just .235/.298. 
But with a Diamondbacks team in need of some outfield depth, Arcia helps address the issue while getting another chance to prove that he can provide solid contributions to a major league lineup. 
Two-thirds of their projected outfield in 2017, which includes A.J. Pollock and David Peralta, do not necessarily provide game-changing power next to Yasmany Tomas, who had a breakout 2016 after he belted 31 home runs. 
While Arcia likely won't be starting in Arizona, he could earn a steady role with the team if he is able to bring some more punch to the outfield, especially when Tomas needs a couple of days off.
    
Follow @JoePantorno on Twitter.

The Boston Red Sox cleared their starting-pitching logjam Tuesday by trading Clay Buchholz to the Philadelphia Phillies, per FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman.
The Phils, as Matt Gelb of the Philadelphia Inquirer reported, sent minor league infielder Josh Tobias to Boston and assumed all of Buchholz's $13.5 million salary in 2017.
The Red Sox got salary relief. The Phillies got a talented-if-flawed lottery ticket. There are question marks and causes for handwringing, as we'll delve into shortly. From here, though, it looks like a win-win.
Boston selected Buchholz 42nd overall in 2005 with the compensatory pick they received after Pedro Martinez signed with the New York Mets. He debuted in 2007 and twirled a no-hitter against the Baltimore Orioles at Fenway Park in his second start.
Needless to say, the Beantown faithful had high hopes.
Buchholz showed flashes throughout his 10 seasons with Boston. He made two All-Star teams, in 2010 and 2013, and finished sixth in American League Cy Young Award balloting in 2010, when he led the majors with a 187 ERA+.
Injuries, however, took their toll. Buchholz never threw more than 189.1 innings in a season. Before 2016, he went to the disabled list seven times in his career with the Red Sox. In 2016, he was temporarily bumped from the rotation and finished with a 4.78 ERA in 139.1 frames.
He's a mixed bag—no argument there—and he's the poster boy for the "injury-prone" label.
There are causes for optimism, though. Buchholz's average fastball sat at 92.1 mph in 2016—right around his career average of 92.7 mph. He also finished on a strong note, winning five of six decisions and posting a 2.86 ERA in his final 56.2 innings.
"He's pitching his best baseball of this year at the right time for us," Red Sox skipper John Farrell said in early September, per Peter Abraham of the Boston Globe. "You can't give Clay enough credit. ... I'm very proud of him. Proud of the resiliency he has shown."
Buchholz became expendable after the Red Sox acquired ace Chris Sale from the Chicago White Sox to join a rotation headlined by reigning AL Cy Young Award winner Rick Porcello, David Price and knuckleballer Steven Wright.
Boston could have traded another arm, such as lefty Drew Pomeranz, and likely gotten a better return in prospects. The 24-year-old Tobias, who played at High-A last season, profiles as a fringe big leaguer at best.
Boston, however, gave itself some payroll flexibility. It's unlikely the Red Sox will use that money now, but it could come in handy if they want to add a veteran piece at the deadline and may protect them from luxury-tax penalties.

The Phillies, likewise, have a crowded rotation that features Jeremy Hellickson, Jerad Eickhoff, Aaron Nola and Vincent Velasquez, with Alec Asher, Zach Eflin, and Jake Thompson also in the mix.
Buchholz could slot into the bullpen. Considering his price tag, however, Philadelphia will surely give him a shot to crack the rotation.
The obvious question is why the Phillies, a young team in the midst of a rebuild, want an expensive one-year rental.
It's actually part of a pattern. Philadelphia also acquired veteran infielder/outfielder Howie Kendrick and reliever Pat Neshek this winter—who each have one year left on their contracts—and signed reliever Joaquin Benoit to a one-year pact.
The idea, possibly, is to see if these veteran pieces can mesh with the Phillies' young core and vault the club into contention in the National League East. Philadelphia finished 71-91 last season but played .500 ball through May. They're a team on the rise.
If the Phils are fading by the trade deadline, they can dangle their veteran rentals.
Buchholz won't have much value if he gets hurt or flounders. That's what makes it a gamble. If he stays off the disabled list and pitches like he did down the stretch in 2016, however, he could bring back a far greater prospect package in late July than he cost the Phillies in mid-December.
As for the money, the Phillies have enough inexpensive pieces on their roster to offset Buchholz's price tag. Plus, they're locked into a 25-year, $2.5 billion TV deal.
Getting back to the Red Sox: As enigmatic as he was, Buchholz was their longest-tenured pitcher. In fact, with Buchholz gone, only one member of the Boston roster has been around since 2012, as MLB.com's Ian Browne pointed out:
Amazingly, Dustin Pedroia is now only Red Sox player who has been on the roster since at least 2012. Bogaerts, JBJ, Holt arrived in '13.
It's the end of the era, even if it was a frequently frustrating era. That deserves at least a passing mention. Buchholz pitched on a World Series winner in 2013, and he'll always have that rookie no-no.
Now, the Red Sox get to move on. And the Phillies get a chance to see if they can figure Buchholz out.
It's an intriguing, bittersweet proposition with win-win possibilities.
    
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.

Pitcher Clay Buchholz is no longer a member of the only MLB team he has known, following a tumultuous 2016 campaign. 
The Philadelphia Phillies announced they acquired Buchholz and sent minor league second baseman Josh Tobias to the Red Sox on Tuesday. FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman initially reported the deal.
Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski told reporters the Red Sox will listen to potential trade opportunities, but there is "no major drive" to add more players. Dombrowski said trading Buchholz gives the team flexibility during the offseason and puts Boston under the CBT (competitive-balance tax).  
The New York Post's Joel Sherman thought the move played into what the Phillies have done this offseason:
As @JonHeyman says #Phillies getting Buchholz from #Redsox. Pha loading up on plyrs with 1 yr to fr agcy (also Kendrick, Neshek) (cont)
Also did qualifying offer with Hellickson signed Benoit. All can help now and possibly be spun in July if need be
MLB.com's Mike Petriello likes how Philadelphia has assembled its starting rotation:
*whispers*

(Nola / Eickhoff / Buchholz / Hellickson / Velasquez is a pretty decent rotation, Phillies)
This comes after Rob Bradford of WEEI.com noted earlier in December teams that talked to the Red Sox about available pitchers sensed Dombrowski was more interested in trading Buchholz over Drew Pomeranz.
Scott Miller of Bleacher Report listed the Miami Marlins as one of the clubs interested in Buchholz, although he reported the $13 million 2016 price tag was too expensive.
Boston acquired Chris Sale from the Chicago White Sox this offseason and largely has its rotation set with Sale, David Price, Rick Porcello, Steven Wright, Eduardo Rodriguez and Pomeranz all as candidates, which made Buchholz expendable.
Reports of a potential trade involving the right-hander appeared during the regular season, as Heyman tweeted Buchholz "came up in talks" before the Aug. 1 non-waiver trade deadline. Buchholz is a former All-Star, but he was far from a shutdown pitcher in 2016, with a 4.78 ERA, 1.33 WHIP and 93 strikeouts in 139.1 innings.
The Red Sox moved him to the bullpen after his struggles; home runs in particular were a problem for Buchholz. He allowed 21 long balls, which was still lower than the 25 he gave up in 2012.
He returned to the starting rotation late in the season and turned in a strong finish with a 3.14 ERA in five September appearances. The impressive finishing kick likely made him a more attractive trade target for the Phillies this offseason.
Despite the 2016 struggles, Buchholz was solid for the Red Sox in 2015 with a 3.26 ERA, 1.21 WHIP and 107 strikeouts in 113.1 innings. It was a strong bounce-back effort after a lackluster 2014 campaign, when he finished with a 5.34 ERA.
Buchholz has been inconsistent for much of his career even though he made the All-Star Game in 2010 and in 2013:
The hope in Boston in 2016 was that he would look like the All-Star version of himself as the team chased the postseason. However, that was not the case for much of the year, and it reached the point where he said he felt "like something has [to] be going on" when discussing his limited usage in July, per Bradford.
His new team can at least take solace in the fact he has proved himself at the major league level. If he performs like he did in his All-Star campaigns and down the stretch in 2016, he will be an asset in 2017.
What's more, he made playoff appearances for Boston in 2009, 2013 and 2016 and, theoretically, shouldn't be intimidated by any important moments for his new squad. Philadelphia's acquisition could be one of the better under-the-radar swaps of the offseason, especially if the 32-year-old can find consistency.

The MLB trade market has already been vibrant this offseason—even before many of the big names in free agency were taken off the market—but there continues to be plenty of buyers and sellers this winter.
Below, we'll break down a few of the biggest rumors circulating throughout the baseball world.
     
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported that the New York Yankees were eyeing Chicago White Sox ace Jose Quintana:
#Yankees interested in Jose Quintana, source says, and they have the sort of prospects #WhiteSox are looking for. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com, however, doesn't feel a deal is likely:
Yankees GM Brian Cashman has repeatedly said he is pessimistic about adding another quality starter this winter. That, of course, won't cool down the Hot Stove with the latest re-linking the Yankees to the White Sox Jose Quintana. Cashman touches base for nearly every available player; especially when it is need base. However, the White Sox want a boatload of prospects. The Yankees have been disinclined to trade any of them so, unless that changes, it seems unlikely Quintana will end up in the Bronx.
Quintana, 27, would certainly upgrade the team's rotation. He went 13-12 in 2016 with a 3.20 ERA, 1.16 WHIP and 181 strikeouts in 208 innings pitched, which marked his fourth straight season with at least 200 innings pitched.
He's also under contract for the next four years at $36.8 million, per Spotrac—with two club-option years at the end of the contract that includes a $1 million buyout—making him incredibly affordable. So the White Sox will likely need to be blown away by an offer to move Quintana.
Certainly, the Yankees could use an upgrade in a rotation that includes Masahiro Tanaka, CC Sabathia, Michael Pineda and potentially Luis Severino, and the White Sox have proved to be sellers this offseason. But Chicago has no reason to move Quintana without getting several top prospects back in return, a price point the Yankees seem unlikely to meet.
           

It's no secret that the New York Mets have a bit of a logjam in the outfield, with Yoenis Cespedes, Curtis Granderson, Jay Bruce, Michael Conforto and Juan Lagares. Cespedes has left field locked down, but the Mets still find themselves with too many corner outfielders who need to play.
As Mike Petriello of MLB.com noted, the Mets are trying to move one of them:
The Mets are trying to alleviate the outfield glut by trading one, likely Bruce, even though teams reportedly prefer Granderson. Assuming they successfully do move one, they've said they'd be willing to get by with some combination of Granderson, Conforto and Lagares in center. Bruce isn't an option there, which is why they'd much rather move him than Granderson.
This has been one of the biggest storylines of the offseason for the Mets, though it likely won't be resolved until some of the bigger names in free agency are signed and teams turn to the trade market to address their lineup issues.
Until then, the Mets play the waiting game. 
     

According to Bob Dutton of the News Tribune, the Seattle Mariners and Tampa Bay Rays have had talks revolving around Tampa's starting pitchers. Dutton reported that the Rays were making Chris Archer, Jake Odorizzi and Drew Smyly available via trade, though he added that they were asking a "stiff price" for Archer and Odorizzi.
That left Smyly as the most realistic option for the Mariners, joining a slew of potential trade targets that includes Cincinnati's Anthony DeSclafani, Boston's Drew Pomeranz and the Los Angeles Dodgers pair of Scott Kazmir and Brandon McCarthy, according to Dutton.
The team's rotation remains a major area in need of some improvement heading into 2017, and in the deep American League West—the Texas Rangers will be contenders once again, while the Houston Astros have improved this offseason—the Mariners can't afford to fall behind in the arms race. 
At some point, the Mariners will swing a deal for a starting pitcher. It would seem they are casting a net in their search for the right fit.
You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.

Week after week, we take the juiciest trade rumors and speculation making the rounds on MLB's rumor mill and try to concoct deals that make sense for both teams. Unfortunately, not every rumor lends itself to such an endeavor.
Take, for instance, the news this week, courtesy of MLB Network's Jon Morosi, that the New York Yankees have interest in Jose Quintana of the Chicago White Sox. Could the Yankees use a pitcher like Quintana? Of course they could. Nobody disputes that.
But the cost of acquiring Quintana is prohibitive. As ESPN.com's Andrew Marchand notes: "The White Sox want a boatload of prospects. The Yankees have been disinclined to trade any of [theirs]." There's just not a deal that makes sense for both sides—so you won't find that deal on the pages that follow.
What you will find, however, are a pair of deals involving the other team in New York, along with two American League contenders bolstering their respective rosters for what they hope will be deep playoff runs in 2017.
Keep in mind these proposed deals are only ideas and speculation. Unless otherwise noted, there's no indication any of them have actually been discussed.

Baltimore Gets: OF Jarrod Dyson
Kansas City Gets: RHP Jason Garcia and 1B/OF Christian Walker
    
Rumor/Speculation
Baltimore was among the teams that Jon Heyman of Today's Knuckleball listed as having interest in Kansas City's Jarrod Dyson earlier this month. Dyson would fill the team's desire, per Eduardo A. Encina of the Baltimore Sun, for a defensive upgrade with speed who can play the outfield corners.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Orioles
Is there an available outfielder who fits Encina's profile better than Dyson? His game-changing speed (30-of-37 in stolen base attempts) and terrific defense at all three outfield positions is exactly what the Orioles need.
Entering his final year of arbitration eligibility, Dyson isn't going to command a hefty salary and there's no long-term commitment required. That's important for the Orioles, who will have to work out new deals for key players, including Zach Britton, Manny Machado and Chris Tillman, sooner rather than later.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Royals
Kansas City isn't going to get a massive return for Dyson but does well in this deal, adding a pair of prospects who are nearly ready to contribute.
Christian Walker provides Kansas City with some insurance should the team fail to work out a long-term extension with Eric Hosmer, as the 25-year-old is a smooth fielder at first base. But he's also athletic enough to play an outfield corner and has the requisite power to serve as a regular designated hitter.
Jason Garcia's stuff has always been better than his numbers, largely due to his continued lack of command. But the 24-year-old is still young enough to get himself straightened out mechanically. He's been developed as a starter but his electric fastball and improving slider scream future closer.

Pittsburgh Gets: OF Jay Bruce and LHP Steven Matz
New York Gets: OF Andrew McCutchen and LHP Tony Watson
    
Rumor/Speculation
On Monday night, Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal confirmed that the New York Mets are working the phones in an attempt to find a center fielder, adding that they're not interested in a one-year rental like Kansas City's Lorenzo Cain, but that they have spoken with Pittsburgh about Andrew McCutchen.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Mets
Giving up Steven Matz isn't easy, but in doing so the Mets solve three issues: They add the center fielder they need, the late-inning relief help they seek and, perhaps most importantly, get rid of Jay Bruce, a player they never seemed to actually want after trading for him.
As MLB.com's Michael Clair recently pointed out, talk of McCutchen's demise, even in the wake of a career-worst season, may be premature.
"Though McCutchen never went on the DL in 2016, he struggled with a nagging thumb problem and a lingering heel injury, among other minor ailments. Add those together, and it's not surprising that McCutchen saw his walks dip and strikeouts spike to a career-high 21.2 percent." 
McCutchen's strong finish, when he hit .284/.381/.471 with 19 extra-base hits (nine home runs), 36 RBI and nearly as many walks (34) as strikeouts (36) over the season's final two months, suggests that a return to his usual level of excellence is 2017 is at least possible, if not probable.
Under team control through 2018 for a combined $28.5 million, he'd be a relative bargain if he's back to playing like an All-Star. Tony Watson is entering the final year of his deal but provides the Mets with much-needed insurance at the back of the bullpen.
After all, closer Jeurys Familia is likely to receive at least a 30-game suspension under baseball's joint domestic violence policy, per Kristie Ackert of the New York Daily News. Watson can fill in as closer during his absence and then return to a setup role, in which he's pitched to a combined 2.08 ERA since 2014.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Pirates
Under team control through 2022, Matz is the kind the controllable young pitcher that Rosenthal says they're looking for in a McCutchen deal.
He's not without his warts: Matz has never tossed more than 140 innings or made more than 25 starts in a season as a professional, which raises some questions about his durability. But when he's healthy, he's nasty.
Over 28 career starts spanning 168 innings of work, he's gone 13-8 with a 3.16 ERA, 1.21 WHIP, 41 walks and 163 strikeouts.
Taking Jay Bruce is part of the price the Pirates have to pay, but the slugger isn't completely useless to the team. With Starling Marte taking over in center field, Bruce can fill the void in left field—at least until top prospect Austin Meadows is ready to contribute.

Houston Gets: RHP Ervin Santana
Minnesota Gets: RHPs David Paulino and Brady Rodgers, LHP Reymin Guduan
    
Rumor/Speculation
Teams have been asking Minnesota about veteran starter Ervin Santana, tweets Heyman, adding that the Twins don't deem anyone on their roster untouchable.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Astros
Giving up a trio of young, controllable arms for Santana might seem counterproductive, but with the Astros looking to make a World Series run in 2017, it's the kind of move that makes a whole lot of sense.
Under team control through 2018 at a reasonable $13.5 million annual salary and with a $14 million team option for 2019, the 34-year-old is more than a short-term rental and would give Houston another durable, reliable innings-eater to slot in its rotation.
With Lance McCullers Jr. likely to be working on an innings limit after an injury-filled 2016 season, Santana's addition becomes all the more important. Unless, of course, you're comfortable with Charlie Morton picking up the slack, that is.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Twins
Minnesota loses its only reliable starter but adds a trio of young arms with considerable upside, including a pair who are potentially ready to step in and contribute on Opening Day.
David Paulino, the centerpiece of this package, isn't one of them, as injuries and a suspension have limited him to just 196 innings of work over parts of five minor league seasons. While he needs more time to develop, the 22-year-old has all the makings of a front-of-the-rotation arm.
Brady Rodgers may ultimately find success working in relief, as his stuff could play up in short stints, but the 26-year-old still has a chance to carve out a career as an innings-eater at the back of a big league pitching staff.
There's no question about where Reymin Guduan and his electric fastball belong—at the back of a team's bullpen. The 24-year-old routinely hits triple digits with his heat and has an improving slider to compliment the pitch, but has had issues with controlling both in the past. With a bit more fine-tuning, Guduan could quickly find himself working the late innings for Minnesota.

New York Gets: LHP Angel Perdomo and RHP Francisco Rios
Toronto Gets: OF Curtis Granderson
    
Rumor/Speculation
Toronto continues to discuss a deal for Jay Bruce or Curtis Granderson with the Mets, tweets Morosi.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Mets
For the Mets, this deal is more about creating regular playing time for Michael Conforto and creating more payroll flexibility by shedding Curtis Granderson's $15 million salary than the actual return from the Blue Jays.
That said, New York isn't about to just give the Grandy Man away, and the Mets wind up with a pair of intriguing young arms in 22-year-old Angel Perdomo and 21-year-old Francisco Rios.
Should the Mets decide to continue developing the pair as starting pitchers, it'll be at least another year before either one is potentially ready to contribute in the big leagues. That said, both could move quickly through the minors if the Mets shift them to relief roles, where their stuff would play up.
    
Why It Makes Sense for the Blue Jays
Toronto has glaring needs in the outfield corners, with Ezequiel Carrera, Steve Pearce and Melvin Upton Jr. their best internal options. Granderson might be past his prime, but the 35-year-old is certainly an upgrade over the team's current options.
He may not be the on-base machine teams typically like to have leading off, but Granderson can serve as a table-setter atop the lineup while helping to replace some of the power the Blue Jays lost with the free-agent departures of Jose Bautista and Edwin Encarnacion, who both remain unlikely to return.
    
Unless otherwise linked/noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs.
All contract information courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

Desperation can only be born out of an impending deadline. As it pertains to sports, that boundary could be a trade deadline or the beginning of the season.
In the case of baseball and this offseason, that's the start of spring training in 2017. But that's only a hard deadline for those teams looking to compete this summer. Those in rebuilding mode don't need to concern themselves with 2017, as they can make a deal when the time feels right or an enticing offer comes along.
So consider this a list of playoff contenders—or those, at least, that can compete—that need to become more active as we enter the final stages of the offseason. 

In both the trade and free-agent markets, it's important that teams stick to their internal plans and refrain from making any reactive moves.
But in the case of the Texas Rangers, it must be difficult for fans to watch the club remain idle as the AL West-rival Houston Astros go on a shopping spree, earning the designation as this offseason's most active team.
Most notably, the Astros acquired corner outfielder Josh Reddick and designated hitter Carlos Beltran, two bats that should help Houston improve its disappointing third-place finish in 2016.
After the Astros won the 2015 AL Wild Card Game, they were a trendy pick to unseat the Rangers in 2016. A poor start and erratic performance left them out of the playoff picture. But given Houston's activity, there's even more reason to believe it'll be a threat to the Rangers in 2017.
Texas did re-sign Carlos Gomez to play center field after Ian Desmond left for the Colorado Rockies in free agency. But the Rangers are still in need of a designated hitter, following Beltran's departure. The team acquired him at the trade deadline last season after Prince Fielder was forced to retire.
Texas is in a tough spot. Of the three candidates best suited to fill the role, Toronto Blue Jays sluggers Jose Bautista or Edwin Encarnacion are unlikely to sign in Texas.
Bautista and the Rangers have a checkered history. His bat flip in Game 5 of the 2015 ALDS left the Rangers perturbed. That spilled over into last season, when Bautista and Texas second baseman Rougned Odor got into a fight that sparked a benches-clearing brawl.
A Bautista-to-the-Rangers signing is about as likely as warm weather in the upper Midwest in December. Encarnacion remains an option, but there haven't been many rumblings.
That leaves Mark Trumbo, MLB's home run champ in 2016. A couple of weeks ago, Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports reported that Texas had interest in the right-handed slugger. The Rangers have been quiet on the Trumbo front since.
But such a signing could greatly impact the AL West race.

Let's assume that a talented but injury-riddled New York Mets pitching staff comes back healthy in 2017.
That still leaves the team with one of baseball's worst offenses. New York finished near the bottom of MLB in every relevant offensive category, and the trade-deadline acquisition of Jay Bruce, the NL RBI leader at the time, did little to help the Mets' postseason push.
Priority No. 1 this winter was re-signing Yoenis Cespedes. Check. But Cespedes was part of last year's team, which means the club can expect the status quo. Without Cespedes, the Mets offense would have struggled even more.
But if New York expects to keep pace in an NL East the Washington Nationals should be favored to win, the Mets need to upgrade their offense. Third baseman David Wright is coming off his second straight injury-shortened season, which means they could look for an insurance policy should Wright's back give him further issues.
The team also could unload Bruce, part of a logjam in the outfield. Such a deal could net the Mets a bat at a position of need.
If they don't do anything significant, it puts unbelievable pressure on the pitching staff. The Mets, unquestionably, have one of the most talented starting rotations in baseball.
But it's also one that deals with a lot of setbacks.
Matt Harvey, Steven Matz and Jacob deGrom all suffered serious injuries last season. Noah Syndergaard dealt with bone spurs, which can be severe, though the right-hander pitched through the trouble.
To assume the group will remain healthy throughout the season is a risky proposition. If the team can rely on its pitching staff, New York would need little offense.
Given the litany of previous injuries, though, that doesn't seem like a safe bet.

The Baltimore Orioles might remain on this list as long as they're contenders in the AL East.
Traditionally, Baltimore likes to wait until the waning hours of the offseason—quite literally in some instances—to improve. The Orioles signed pitcher Yovani Gallardo on Feb. 25, after pitchers and catchers had reported.
The club also had a deal in place with Dexter Fowler before he backed out and signed with the Chicago Cubs on Feb. 25.
In some cases, this late-breaking strategy may help the bean-counting Orioles. But it still creates urgency if Baltimore hopes to contend in an AL East that could be baseball's most competitive division in 2017 and one that can expect to see improved Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees teams.
The Orioles need power. Baltimore general manager Dan Duquette told the Baltimore Sun's Eduardo A. Encina that he won't go after Jose Bautista. However, Edwin Encarnacion and Mark Trumbo would be solid fits—especially given their familiarity with the division.
As players linger on the open market, their value diminishes. And given that the three aforementioned hitters have similar skill sets, they could compete with one another. A price war is exactly what the Orioles want.
Wait too long, though, and other teams could see the market as advantageous as well. Ultimately, though, that leaves Baltimore in need of roster additions.

If you believe the Detroit Tigers are aiming for a rebuild in 2017, you could make an argument that they don't belong on this list. But as the offseason progresses, there's reason to believe Detroit might take one more shot at winning the AL Central. 
Yes, the Tigers have been open in saying they would like to scale back payroll. That has likely become more of a priority, given that the new collective bargaining agreement imposes stiffer penalties on teams that incur the luxury tax.
But given that the Minnesota Twins and Chicago White Sox are rebuilding, and the Kansas City Royals are moving veterans, the Cleveland Indians are the only remaining contender in the division.
Of course, coming off a World Series appearance, the Indians will be the heavy favorite to repeat as AL Central champions. But the team does rely greatly on its pitching staff—one that saw late-season injuries to starters Danny Salazar and Carlos Carrasco.
Considering the fragility of pitching arms, that can be risky. The 2016 New York Mets, coming off a World Series appearance, had an imposing starting staff. But they struggled with injuries to their starting staff all year.
That opens the division to a Tigers team that still has talent. Adding a player could prove tricky, given the team's self-imposed financial restrictions. But even an under-the-radar signing could give them an edge if the AL Central ends up being a tightly contested race.

Not to take any credit away from the Los Angeles Dodgers, who won the NL West in 2016 despite a record number of injuries, but the San Francisco Giants sputtered over the last two months of the season.
The Giants led MLB with 30 blown saves last season. To be clear: That's 30 games, though not all lost, that San Francisco led late in an NL West that Los Angeles won by four games.
Well, San Francisco remedied that this winter by signing Mark Melancon, one of baseball's top closers over the last three seasons.
The division will not be nearly as easy to win in 2017.
Los Angeles had arguably the most arduous list of offseason tasks of any MLB team. It had to re-sign starting pitcher Rich Hill, third baseman Justin Turner and closer Kenley Jansen, the best in baseball at his position, according to FanGraphs WAR for relievers.
All drew interest from multiple teams.
But now that they've accomplished that, the club looks much like it did in 2016. Given that the division should be tougher—including a Colorado Rockies team that has been active this offseason—the Dodgers need to make a splashy acquisition.
That's likely the reason L.A. has been linked to trade talks involving Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier, who hit 42 homers last season. Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports (via colleague Mark Townsend) reported Los Angeles is willing to include Jose De Leon, a top pitching prospect, in a potential deal.
Such a move would make the Dodgers the favorite to repeat as NL West champs and likely the biggest threat to unseat the Chicago Cubs in the NL in 2017.

Early in the offseason, the Detroit Tigers hung up a "For Sale" sign. Turns out when you flip it over it says "Just Kidding!"
OK, that's an exaggeration.
First, the winter isn't over. Detroit could still offload one or more of its tradeable veteran assets. Plus, the Tigers never committed to a full-scale fire sale.
"I've talked to all the guys—[Miguel] Cabrera and [Justin] Verlander and [Ian] Kinsler and guys like that—just to let them know, Hey this is just the way it is and it's part of the business but not to worry about anything unless I call them," Detroit general manager Al Avila said Nov. 8 on MLB Now (via MLB.com).
That's not a promise to sell, sell, sell. It sure sounds like a GM who's prepared to entertain offers, though.
Instead, it's been silent as a Tesla in the Motor City. Yes, the Tigers sent center fielder Cameron Maybin to the Los Angeles Angels for minor league right-hander Victor Alcantara on Nov. 3.
All of their big pieces remain on the roster, however, and they seem increasingly likely to go for it in 2017.
That's a mistake. There's no other way to put it.

Sure, Detroit could sniff the playoffs. It won 86 games in 2016, good for second place in the American League Central. FanGraphs projects an 83-79 record for the Tigers in 2017 and another finish just outside the money.
The Central is winnable. The defending AL champion Cleveland Indians haven't made any major offseason splashes. Neither have the Kansas City Royals, who could be sellers. The Chicago White Sox are definitely sellers, and the young Minnesota Twins took a big step back last season.
But with the Boston Red Sox stockpiling out East and the Houston Astros doing the same in the West, the Junior Circuit bar is being set.
Hanging around the fringe isn't enough for Detroit. The Tigers aren't some burgeoning up-and-comer; nor are they a franchise starved for a taste of the postseason.
Between 2011 and 2014, Detroit advanced to the playoffs four times, to the American League Championship Series three times and to the World Series once.
Add another unsuccessful trip to the Fall Classic in 2006, and Tigers fans have been treated to their share of October action in the past decade.
What they deserve now is either a full-bore run at the franchise's first championship since 1984 or a strategic, unambiguous rebuild.
What they're getting instead is the equivalent of treading water.
Detroit isn't going to spend on any of this year's first- or second-tier free-agents. That much is obvious.
To truly contend, the club needs to upgrade a bullpen that finished 24th in baseball with a 4.22 ERA. Yet the Tigers weren't even an also-ran on top free-agent closers such as Aroldis Chapman, Kenley Jansen and Mark Melancon, and they haven't made any impact relief additions.
They could also stand to fortify their rotation. Verlander is fresh off a superlative season that should have netted him the AL Cy Young Award, and reigning AL Rookie of the Year Michael Fulmer is an exciting building block.
Right-hander Jordan Zimmermann, whom the Tigers signed for five years and $110 million last November, started strong but battled groin and neck injuries and finished with a 4.87 ERA.

Mike Pelfrey (5.07 ERA) and Anibal Sanchez (5.87 ERA) are likewise questionable. Daniel Norris went 4-2 with a 3.38 ERA, but the 23-year-old left-hander also dealt with injuries and has yet to prove himself over a full season.
Detroit ranked fourth in the majors in OPS last season, but its offensive core is aging. Cabrera will turn 34 in April, and Victor Martinez will be 38 on Friday. Each played more than 150 games last season, but at some point, injuries and decline will hit.
Maybe it won't be next year. Maybe the Tigers could make one more run if they bolstered their bullpen and rotation. They don't have the monetary flexibility, though, as ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick noted:
#Tigers would love to sign Alex Avila as LH bat to complement James McCann. But Avila made $2.5M in 2016. Even that's too rich for Detroit.
When you can't pony up for a backup catcher, it's safe to say the budget's busted.
Instead, Detroit should look to the White Sox and New York Yankees, who have unloaded veteran assets to shed payroll and restock their farm systems.
The Tigers' farm, which Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked No. 25 in the game in September, could use an infusion of talent.
Right fielder J.D. Martinez will be a free agent after this season. Kinsler is signed through 2017 with a team option for 2018. Their stock will likely never be higher.

Moving Verlander would be a trickier proposition. Given the paucity of pitching available this winter, though, it's worth wondering what the Tigers could have gotten for their ace and whether they'll regret not exploring it further.
Again, the offseason isn't over. There's time for Detroit to swing a swap or two. If the club is floundering at the trade deadline, the pressure to deal will increase.
Verlander, or Cabrera, might have as much value then as they do now. On the other hand, they might not. The same, and then some, goes for Kinsler and J.D. Martinez.
What the Tigers don't want, and can't afford, is to delay the inevitable until it's too late. Painful as it is, when you hang up that "For Sale" sign, at a certain point you've got to keep it there.
             
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and MLB.com unless otherwise noted.

Nobody can fault the New York Yankees if they’re getting cold feet with their plan to take the long way back to success, but the best advice for them right now is to stay the course.
That would involve not making a trade for Chicago White Sox left-hander Jose Quintana. As Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported Monday, that’s something the Yankees are at least interested in doing:
#Yankees interested in Jose Quintana, source says, and they have the sort of prospects #WhiteSox are looking for. @MLB @MLBNetwork
What we have here is a team with a square hole to fill casting its gaze on a square peg.
The Yankees added a major piece to their bullpen when they brought back Aroldis Chapman on an $86 million contract. However, even he and Dellin Betances can only pick up so much slack for a starting rotation that’s littered with question marks beyond Masahiro Tanaka.
Quintana would be quite the answer to that problem.
Although he’s so far spent his big league career playing Garfunkel to Chris Sale’s Simon, Quintana’s no slouch. He’s posted a 3.35 ERA across 814.2 innings over the last four seasons. He's actually produced more wins above replacement than Sale, who turned his Sox from White to Red during the winter meetings, since the start of 2015.
As if that alone didn’t give him enough value, Quintana also offers something that makes baseball executives swoon: cheap control. Including options, his contract runs through 2020 for $37.85 million.

For the rebuilding White Sox, Quintana’s oodles of value are worth a big ol’ bucket of prospects in a trade. Morosi’s right about that being another thing that makes him a fit for the Yankees.
They went into 2016 with a decent farm system and came out of it with an elite one. That was thanks to the Yanks accepting their grim reality and aiming for a bright future by trading Chapman, Andrew Miller and Carlos Beltran. When Jim Callis of MLB.com sized up the league's farm systems in August, he ranked the Yankees’ system at No. 2.
However, there is a difference between a trade that can be made and a trade that should be made. Quintana to the Yankees is certainly the former, but it falls short of the latter.
If anyone were to drop in on Yankees general manager Brian Cashman and tell him as much, he might say they’re preaching to the choir. This was ESPN.com’s Andrew Marchand’s response to the Quintana report:
Cashman touches base for nearly every available player; especially when it is need based. However, the White Sox want a boatload of prospects. The Yankees have been disinclined to trade any of them so, unless that changes, it seems unlikely Quintana will end up in the Bronx.
If so, Cashman would be sticking to what he said in early October about not wanting to take a newly minted elite farm system and immediately empty it again.
"You'd have to be one piece away, and I would not recommend that type of decision-making as we approach the 2017 season," he said of the possibility of making any big trades, per the Associated Press via ESPN.com. "I think that would be a dangerous approach."
Still, it's possible Cashman’s trade finger is itchier now than it was before.
The Yankees did end 2016 on a positive note, riding a boost from Gary Sanchez and other youngsters to a 40-34 record in the second half. And while he’ll be sticking around through at least 2019 and possibly through 2021, signing Chapman was more of a win-now move than a win-later move.
Right now, the Yankees are on the Kansas City Royals/Chicago Cubs path to success. But from the above seeds could grow a desire to shorten the road to contention.
FanGraphs’ projections for 2017 now have the Yankees in the “not quite in it, not quite out of it” range with an 83-79 record. Adding Quintana would put them closer to the Red Sox in the AL East power structure and perhaps elevate them above all other American League wild-card contenders.
But at what cost? Glad you asked, Anonymous Internet Person.
Craig Edwards of FanGraphs put the rough estimate for Quintana’s surplus value on top of his contract at $80 to $90 million. That’s not far off what the White Sox received in the Sale trade, which netted them No. 1 prospect Yoan Moncada and more, and it makes it possible to guess at what the Yankees would have to give up to get Quintana.
Going off the prospect values offered by Kevin Creagh and Steve DiMiceli at The Point of Pittsburgh, the Yankees would likely have to base an offer around a hitter ranked in the 11-25 range of Baseball America's top 100. Such players carry $62 million in surplus value.

Per Baseball America's most recent top 100, that would mean a trade based around shortstop Jorge Mateo (No. 19) or outfielder Clint Frazier (No. 21), with shortstop Gleyber Torres (No. 27) possibly being close enough to make the grade.
And that’s just to start.
The Yankees might have to add outfielder Aaron Judge (No. 42) or outfielder Blake Rutherford, a 2016 first-round pick who checks in at No. 51 for MLB.com. If not, surely the worst secondary piece the White Sox would settle for is left-hander Justus Sheffield, who’s No. 69 for Baseball America.
The upside of sacrificing this much prospect depth would be a couple extra wins on the Yankees’ 2017 projection. But not even a trade for Clayton Kershaw would be enough to make up the gap between them and the Red Sox, which currently stands at 10 games. To be safe, the Yankees would need more.
To be sure, they could indeed add more. They would still have pieces to trade for another starter. They could also sign one of the market’s remaining sluggers (Edwin Encarnacion, Mark Trumbo, et al) to lengthen out their lineup.
But if the Yankees were to go that route, they’ll have fallen right back in the same trap that necessitated them finally stockpiling prospects in the first place. They would have a team that would be good without being heavy favorites now, and which would have little young talent or payroll space with which to fix problems in the future.
The alternative is remaining patient and building something much stronger from the ground up.
The Yankees have already started doing this with Sanchez, Judge and Greg Bird lined up for regular roles in 2017. When their other young talents arrive, they’ll be sitting on a young core the likes of which the franchise hasn’t seen since the Core Four materialized two decades ago—yes, it has been that long.
It worked for the Royals. It worked for the Cubs. If they let it, it can work for the Yankees too.
   
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked.


The Pittsburgh Pirates confirmed they signed reliever Daniel Hudson to a two-year deal on Wednesday. 
OFFICIAL: The Pirates have signed RHP Daniel Hudson (@DHuddy41) to a 2-year contract. s://t.co/RUw4RchxnK
Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan first reported the deal on Monday, noting it was worth $11 million. Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal confirmed the deal, while Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports added a breakdown of the contract:
daniel hudson gets $5.5M in '17, $5.5M in '18. plus $1.5M incentives (for games finished) #pirates
Hudson spent the past six seasons with the Arizona Diamondbacks, switching between the starting rotation and the bullpen. 
After the deal was announced, the pitcher posted a message on his Twitter account thanking the Diamondbacks organization and its fans. The team provided its thoughts:
Thank YOU @DHuddy41. Wishing you the best of luck (when you aren't facing us, of course). s://t.co/HAAr9H3Gyh
Last year, as Arizona's setup man for the early portion of the season, he endured a difficult stretch that saw him shuffled throughout various bullpen roles. 
Following a June 21 appearance against the Toronto Blue Jays, Hudson had his ERA down to 1.55. But it ballooned to 7.22 on Aug. 2. CBSSports.com's Mike Axisa showed how damaging that stretch was for the right-hander:
Looking at some FA stuff and I forgot Daniel Hudson had maybe the worst six-week stretch in MLB history this year. s://t.co/8n3kjMzyw0
Going from middle reliever to closer, Hudson lowered his ERA to 5.22 by season's end, but it was on a Diamondbacks team that was well out of contention by July. 
After he picked up the win in the season finale against the San Diego Padres, Hudson showed his emotions at the thought of it being his final appearance with the Diamondbacks, via Fox Sports Arizona:
Daniel Hudson lobbied to pitch in the season finale and he was emotional after he earned the win in what could be his final game w/ @Dbacks. s://t.co/MdBpX7UtMQ
Now in a new setting, he'll have to lower his ERA if he wants to stick with the Pirates. Still, a good start to his Pittsburgh tenure could see him quickly carve out his niche and receive regular appearances moving forward. 
Tony Watson posted 15 saves in 2016 after replacing Mark Melancon as the Pirates closer. Since Watson will likely be Pittsburgh's closer heading into the 2017 campaign, Hudson should prove valuable as an option in late-inning situations.
       
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com.    

Washington Nationals superstar Bryce Harper married longtime girlfriend Kayla Varner over the weekend at the iconic San Diego Mormon Temple.
Harper shared an image from the ceremony on his Instagram page:
A photo posted by Bryce Harper (@bharper3407)
Wedding photographer India Earl also shared an image from the wedding:
A photo posted by India Earl (@indiaearl)
According to TalkNats.com (via Emily Heil of the Washington Post), Nationals teammates Jayson Werth and Trea Turner were in attendance, along with general manager Mike Rizzo. Former teammate Ian Desmond also attended, per Sports Illustrated (via Fox Sports).
Turner shared an image from the proceedings:
A photo posted by Trea Turner (@tvturner)
Harper and Varner—who played soccer at BYU and Ohio State—had previously planned to wed in 2015, though the wedding was called off, per Heil. But Varner announced on Instagram during this year's ESPYs that the pair were engaged once again.
Harper, 24, is coming off his worst season as a pro, hitting .243 with 24 home runs, 86 RBI, 84 runs and 21 stolen bases in 2016. Nonetheless, he remains one of the game's most exciting young superstars and is a crucial pillar for a Nationals team hoping to return to the postseason in 2017.
       
You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.

Jimmy Rollins isn't ready to call it a career just yet. The veteran shortstop agreed to a minor league contract with the San Francisco Giants on Monday, where he'll attempt to make the 25-man roster out of spring training.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported the news.
Rollins, 38, spent the 2016 season with the Chicago White Sox. He hit .221/.295/.329 with two home runs and eight runs batted in while playing in 41 games. The White Sox designated Rollins for assignment in June, and he did not latch on with another big league club.
Rollins spent his first 15 MLB seasons with the Philadelphia Phillies, earning three-All-Star selections, four Gold Gloves and the 2007 National League MVP. He is the Phillies' all-time hits leader and stayed with the franchise through lean years before being traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers prior to the 2015 season.
That one-year stint was largely unproductive, with Rollins failing to post one win above replacement (minimum 20 games) for the first time in his career, per FanGraphs. He compounded that with an even worse stint in Chicago, and it seemingly looked like his career was over.
Still, it's not a surprise Rollins would look to prolong his career. He told reporters before the 2016 season that he planned to play "until basically they take the uniform and tell me to go coach somewhere."
The Giants already have a talented young shortstop in Brandon Crawford, so it's unlikely Rollins will find much playing time at his regular position. They don't have much in the way of platoon infielders, however, so Rollins will need to prove he can play away from shortstop. His only fielding experience away from short was one brief appearance at second base with the Phillies in 2002.
The Giants will need Rollins to prove he can play some at second and maybe even third to justify giving him a roster spot. It's likely they'll bring in other low-cost options who will compete for a utility spot. While none will have Rollins' resume—he ranks among the greatest Phillies in history—his performance over the last two years doesn't speak to his having much left in the tank.
    
Follow Tyler Conway (@jtylerconway) on Twitter.   

Nothing raises the ire of a fanbase during the offseason more than inactivity.
It's hard to get excited about a Rule 5 selection or a non-roster invitee when other teams are spending millions of dollars on established MLB talent and filling roster holes left and right.
Of course, recent seasons have proved that a loud winter does not guarantee success during the upcoming season.
Just ask the 2015 San Diego Padres.
It's also only the middle of December, so there's plenty of time for an inactive team to make a splash before the offseason ends.
With that in mind, the following is a look at five potential contenders that have been largely inactive so far this offseason, and whether it's time for panic or patience with regard to their offseason approach based on remaining roster holes, salary flexibility and the rumor mill.

Key Losses: RF Mark Trumbo, C Matt Wieters, DH Pedro Alvarez, OF Michael Bourn, OF Nolan Reimold
Key Additions: C Welington Castillo, SP/RP Logan Verrett, OF Adam Brett Walker, OF Aneury Tavarez
          
Team Overview
The Baltimore Orioles have found a new starting catcher, signing Welington Castillo to a one-year, $6 million deal that includes a $7 million player option for 2018.
That's about all they've done this offseason, though.
Mutual interest in a reunion with slugger Mark Trumbo failed to advance beyond the two sides' agreeing to a four-year framework, and the Orioles have now taken their offer off the table, according to Roch Kubatko of MASNsports.com.
Joey Rickard stands as the best in-house option to take over in right field. He was a nice story as a Rule 5 pick that stuck, but a .696 OPS and minus-0.5 WAR over 282 plate appearances is a clear indication he belongs in a bench role.
For a team that relies heavily on the long ball, replacing Trumbo and designated hitter Pedro Alvarez—who combined for 69 home runs last year—with Rickard and an unproven rookie like Trey Mancini or Adam Brett Walker simply won't cut it.
Then there's the starting rotation, a group that ranked 24th in the majors with a 4.72 ERA last season and was universally identified as the team's biggest weakness.
Despite that mediocrity, the front office appears content to head into 2017 with the same stable of arms.
"Our starting pitching is all right going into the season. They've all won more than they've lost over the course of their career. We have six starters going in, which is something we haven't had," general manager Dan Duquette told Brittany Ghiroli of MLB.com at the start of the offseason.
Whatever you say, Dan.
        
Verdict: Panic
The comments on the starting rotation alone should be enough to make O's fans squirm. Even if they bring back Trumbo or find a suitable replacement, it's hard to see this team as anything beyond a fringe contender without an improved staff.

Key Losses: 1B Mike Napoli, OF Rajai Davis, RP Jeff Manship, OF Coco Crisp
Key Additions: RP Hoby Milner, RP Edwin Escobar
     
Team Overview
With an intact and fully healthy starting rotation—Carlos Carrasco and Danny Salazar were non-factors during the postseason—and All-Star outfielder Michael Brantley finally expected to be healthy, an argument can be made that the Cleveland Indians are already a better team than the one we saw in October.
First baseman Mike Napoli and outfielder Rajai Davis are the two major contributors the team stands to lose from last year's club, and the front office expressed at least some level of interest in a reunion with both veterans.
"Both for Raj and Mike, we expressed our desire to potentially have them back. And we recognize they both have alternatives, based on the years that they had, but we're certainly open to exploring different ways where both of them could be back here," team president Chris Antonetti told Jordan Bastian of MLB.com.
The return of Brantley and expected arrival of top prospect Bradley Zimmer makes bringing back Davis more of a luxury than a necessity, but Napoli is a different story.
The 35-year-old was one of the driving forces in the middle of the lineup, posting an .800 OPS with 34 home runs and a team-high 101 RBI on a one-year, $7 million deal.
There's no in-house option to replace him, and even if Brantley returns to his pre-injury form and picks up some of the run-production load, there is still a hole at first base.
According to Buster Olney of ESPN.com, Napoli is seeking a three-year deal, while the Indians prefer to keep things to a one-year pact once again.
Meanwhile, the Tribe has also been linked to the likes of Edwin Encarnacion, Jose Bautista and Mark Trumbo as alternatives should Napoli sign elsewhere, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
The Indians are never big spenders in free agency, with the four-year, $56 million contract they gave Nick Swisher prior to the 2013 season still the largest free-agent deal in team history.
If ever there was a time to go all-in, though, it's now.
 
Verdict: Patience
There are still several players available who would offer the Indians the right-handed power bat they need, and they've done their due diligence feeling out the market. That's the only clear void on the roster, and it should be only a matter of time before they add someone.

Key Losses: RP Wade Davis, DH Kendrys Morales, SP Edinson Volquez, SP Kris Medlen, RP Luke Hochevar
Key Additions: OF Jorge Soler
          
Team Overview
The Kansas City Royals began the offseason with a clear warning that the team was spending beyond its means last season and payroll would "regress a little bit" for the upcoming season.
"We're going to have to look internally and [in] trades," GM Dayton Moore told reporters. "We won't be adding money. That's for darn sure."
Closer Wade Davis, and his $10 million salary, was the first casualty. Kansas City shipped him to the Chicago Cubs during the winter meetings for a controllable power bat with considerable upside in Jorge Soler.
The question now: Where do the Royals go from here?
The answer so far: They're not sure.
Healthy seasons from Lorenzo Cain and Mike Moustakas could go a long way toward improving an offense that ranked 23rd in the majors with 4.17 runs per game, and the bullpen has a suitable replacement for Davis in hard-throwing Kelvin Herrera.
However, if this team has any hopes of contending in 2017, the starting rotation needs help.
Danny Duffy and Ian Kennedy are both quality arms, but neither profiles as a true ace. Yordano Ventura was wildly disappointing once again, Jason Vargas made just three starts after finally returning from Tommy John surgery and the veteran duo of Mike Minor and Chris Young shouldn't be trusted with anything more than bullpen spots.
Rookie Matt Strahm is a potential X-factor after pitching well out of the bullpen (21 G, 1.23 ERA, 12.3 K/9), but it's hard to imagine he'll single-handedly turn around a rotation that ranked 22nd in ERA (4.67) and 21st in quality starts (68).
If the team doesn't think it can contend in 2017, the future still needs to be addressed.
Cain, Moustakas, Duffy and first baseman Eric Hosmer are all set to reach free agency next offseason, and the team can't afford to keep all four.
The team has opened extension talks with Duffy, per Jeffrey Flanagan of MLB.com, but his name has also been floated in trade rumors, so it's unclear what the plan is for any of those core pieces.
There are some smart minds in that Kansas City front office, and they find themselves at a clear crossroads this winter.
     
Verdict: Patience
The window to contend appears to have slammed shut on the Royals as quickly as it opened. That's life when you're a small-market team. Conceding that contention is unlikely in 2017 and hoping guys like Cain and Moustakas can rebuild enough value to bring a decent haul at the trade deadline might be their best move.

Key Losses: SP Ivan Nova, RP Neftali Feliz, UT Sean Rodriguez, OF Matt Joyce, SP Jeff Locke, C Eric Fryer
Key Additions: RP Tyler Webb, RP Lisalverto Bonilla, RP Brady Dragmire
          
Team Overview
A compelling case can be made that the Pittsburgh Pirates were the most disappointing team of 2016.
After a 98-win season and a third consecutive playoff appearance the previous season, expectations were high, but when the dust settled, the Pirates sat at 78-83 and well out of contention in the NL Central.
What's next for a team that finally got a taste of winning after two decades of losing?
It appears an influx of young talent is coming.
Josh Bell is set to take over as the starting first baseman, and Alen Hanson seems to have the upper hand to replace Sean Rodriguez in the utility role, but it's the pitching side of things that will really be reliant on young talent.
The average age of the Pittsburgh Pirates' projected starting rotation of Gerrit Cole (26), Jameson Taillon (25), Chad Kuhl (24), Steven Brault (24) and Tyler Glasnow (23) is 24.4 years old.
Cole will need to rebound from an injury-plagued season, while the four youngsters behind him have a combined 43 MLB starts to their credit.
There's a bit more experience on the staff if Drew Hutchison (26) can win a rotation spot or Juan Nicasio (30) gets a chance to start again, but it's still fair to say adding a veteran presence would be beneficial.
No one has been better at hitting on low-cost reclamation projects in recent seasons, thanks in large part to pitching coach Ray Searage, but the Pirates haven't added anyone who fits that mold this winter.
The bullpen also needs help, specifically from the right side after Neftali Feliz departed in free agency and Pittsburgh traded both Mark Melancon and Arquimedes Caminero last season.
Then there's the matter of making face of the franchise Andrew McCutchen feel loved after he was nearly traded to the Washington Nationals.
Moving him with two years of control remaining still makes sense, but he'll need to rebuild some value after a down season if they're going to find someone willing to meet their asking price.
Looking at the big picture, the Pirates' only hope for sustained success is to continue to filter homegrown talent into the mix at the MLB level. There's too much talent on this roster to go with a full-blown youth movement, though.
They can bolster the pitching staff without breaking the bank, and they should have money to spend after unloading Francisco Liriano at the trade deadline. Otherwise, what was the point of that trade?
       
Verdict: Panic
Few teams pinch pennies like the Pirates, and after hitting on guys like Matt Joyce, David Freese and Neftali Feliz last offseason, they seem content to pick up whatever scraps remain on the free-agent pile as spring training approaches.
The future is still bright with so much high-end young talent, but it doesn't look like much help is coming for 2017.

Key Losses: DH Edwin Encarnacion, RF Jose Bautista, LF Michael Saunders, RP Brett Cecil, RP Joaquin Benoit, C Dioner Navarro, RP Scott Feldman
Key Additions: DH Kendrys Morales, IF/OF Steve Pearce, IF Lourdes Gurriel, RP Glenn Sparkman, RP Leonel Campos, RP Dominic Leone
          
Team Overview
The Toronto Blue Jays reached the postseason in 2015 on the strength of a juggernaut offense that averaged 5.50 runs per game and scored 127 more runs than any other team.
While that dipped to 4.69 runs per game this past season—good for ninth in the majors—they were arguably a better team, as the starting rotation became the strength of the roster.
Offseason addition J.A. Happ emerged as a legitimate Cy Young candidate, and Aaron Sanchez flourished in his first full season as a starter, alongside Marco Estrada, Marcus Stroman and R.A. Dickey.
All told, the Blue Jays ranked fourth in the majors and first in the AL with a 3.64 starters' ERA, and their 100 quality starts tied with the Chicago Cubs for most in baseball.
Could that shift in team strength be playing a role in what has been a relatively quiet offseason?
The dynamic duo of Edwin Encarnacion and Jose Bautista entered free agency, along with All-Star outfielder Michael Saunders, so there are significant holes to fill in the lineup.
Toronto signed Kendrys Morales to a three-year deal to replace Encarnacion, and while he's been a productive run producer in recent years, that's a clear downgrade.
The only other notable addition to the lineup has been versatile veteran Steve Pearce, who figures to see some platoon work with Justin Smoak at first base as well as time at the corner outfield spots.
A middle of the order of Josh Donaldson-Kendrys Morales-Troy Tulowitzki-Russell Martin looks considerably less intimidating for opposing pitchers.
The bullpen also needs reinforcements after longtime setup man Brett Cecil joined the St. Louis Cardinals and deadline pickup Joaquin Benoit signed with the Philadelphia Phillies.
Jason Grilli is back as a capable setup option for closer Roberto Osuna, and Rule 5 success story Joe Biagini returns as well, but the rest of the relief corps is a question mark.
It's a considerable amount of roster turnover for a team that has made significant strides toward contending for a title in recent years. What the Blue Jays do over the next couple months will ultimately determine if they're a fringe contender or a legitimate title threat.
           
Verdict: Patience
An improved pitching staff lessens the reliance on offense, and the Blue Jays undoubtedly have money to spend shoring up a corner outfield spot and adding a few bullpen pieces. Everyone will be chasing the Red Sox, but Toronto still looks to have as good a chance as anyone—outside of Cleveland—of catching them.
          
All stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Projected salaries courtesy of MLB Trade Rumors. Contract information via Spotrac unless otherwise noted.

With the holiday season fast approaching, most major business around Major League Baseball is nearing its conclusion. Aroldis Chapman, Kenley Jansen and Yoenis Cespedes have all found huge contracts, as have Justin Turner, Mark Melancon and Dexter Fowler.
Other lesser free agents, like Neil Walker and Jeremy Hellickson, accepted huge one-year qualifying offers to stick around in their current digs. The stragglers remaining on the market consist of two big-time sluggers being tepidly pursued due to their qualifying offers (Edwin Encarnacion and Jose Bautista) and another who packs a lot of pop to go with bouts of inconsistency (Mark Trumbo).
As such, some teams have turned to stoking the trade hot stove to land an impact player. Others remain hopeful on the free-agent market that the likes of Encarnacion or Bautista will lower their prices, or perhaps another bargain will emerge on a short-term contract.
Here's an updated look at one of the biggest names generating trade buzz and some free-agency talk.
   

Trumbo is the most attainable slugger left on the market. He does not come attached to a qualifying offer, which would force teams to surrender a first-round pick in exchange for his services. He's also a deeply flawed player and one of the worst individual defenders in baseball when on the field—he absolutely needs to hit with elite power to be effective.
In 2016, Trumbo did just that. His 47 home runs blasted his previous career high and were four more than anyone else. It speaks to his level of poor defensive skills that Trumbo walked away with just 2.2 wins above replacement last season, per FanGraphs.
With most teams recognizing Trumbo is better off as a designated hitter—especially as his next contract takes him deeper into his 30s—the market has been tepid. Even 10 years ago, Trumbo likely would have commanded a multiyear deal that pushed close to nine figures. Now he's having trouble finding a deal he's even willing to take.
Roch Kubatko of MASN reported the Orioles have grown disillusioned with Trumbo's asking price and pulled their offer. ESPN's Buster Olney previously reported Baltimore offered a four-year deal worth between $52 million and $55 million, while Trumbo's counter asked for $75 million to $80 million over the same stretch.
The Orioles are the more realistic party in this scenario. No team in its right mind should be offering Trumbo $20 million per season. He'd belted 36 home runs total over his previous two seasons before breaking out in 2016 and was actually worth -1.2 wins in 2014. 
It's possible the Orioles can wait this out and get Trumbo's price to come down into their range.
   

The Orioles signed catcher Welington Castillo last week to a one-year, $6 million contract, which carries a $7 million player option for 2018. Castillo will likely walk into 2017 as Baltimore's starting backstop, and he comes on a relative bargain.
Most assumed Castillo's signing would mark the end of Matt Wieters' time in Baltimore. Wieters, a 2007 first-round pick, has spent his entire career in the Baltimore organization. He never became the superstar many pegged coming out of Georgia Tech but put together a solid 124-game campaign in 2016 after having his previous two years mired by injuries.
The market has nonetheless been slow, with agent Scott Boras acknowledging it'll likely be January before Wieters finds a contract.
"The clubs that need catching are pretty well-defined," Boras said, per Eduardo A. Encina of the Baltimore Sun. "Some are thinking about moving players to make room for him, so the timetable always on catching, I don't know what it is; it's always been—I can't think of one I've represented that didn't sign in January, but they do."
Given the market, Jon Heyman of Today's Knuckleball reported a potential Wieters-Baltimore reunion shouldn't be ruled out. It wouldn't make all that much sense on paper. The Orioles already have a solid defensive backup in Caleb Joseph, who some have argued is a better all-around catcher than Castillo. 
The only logical scenario in which Wieters returns is one where he accepts a 50-50 platoon with Castillo on a short-term deal. That'll likely be a nonstarter for the Boras client, who will want either a long-term deal or a clear starting job.
But the Orioles like late-winter signings, so it's not entirely out of the question.
   

Two years away from potentially hitting the free-agent market, J.D. Martinez has become a hot commodity in trade circles. Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported the Tigers are open to moving Martinez but are having trouble finding teams willing to part with their asking price. Detroit, a team with deep pockets and the ability to pay Martinez long term, is looking for "young, controllable talent" as part of any package.
The asking price is understandable. Martinez has produced 10.8 wins over the last three seasons, per FanGraphs, and still hit .307/.373/.535 with 22 home runs and 68 runs batted in despite missing 42 games in 2016. That absence helped lead to the worst defensive season of his career, but Martinez is a four- or five-win player when he plays even average defense.
There aren't many teams around baseball that couldn't use someone like Martinez. The Tigers could use him. That's why they've set the price so high.
But it's also why they're going to have trouble finding a suitor until someone gets desperate. 

Nestled somewhere between the Hot Stove League's big-ticket items and bargain bin you'll find baseball's biggest values. Superstars they're not, yet these players provide teams with an excellent return on their investment.
If they were items on a restaurant's menu, the players we're talking about would likely be served as part of brunch: "It's not quite breakfast, not quite lunch, but it comes with a slice of cantaloupe at the end. You don't get completely what you would at breakfast, but you get a good meal."
While much of the offseason focus remains on unsigned studs like Edwin Encarnacion and yet-to-be-traded assets like Chicago's Jose Quintana, teams in the market for a first baseman or starting pitcher would be wise to turn their attention to some of the players on this list.
They may not deliver the same level of production as their more highly touted counterparts, but these players aren't going to cost a fortune to acquire, either. Of course, values can be found around the diamond, not just on the mound and at first base.
What follows is a look at five of the biggest values that remain available, either as free agents or via trades.

A long-discussed deal that would have sent Zack Cozart to Seattle never came to fruition, and Cincinnati was unsuccessful in its attempt to find a new home for him (and Brandon Phillips) at the winter meetings.
“You can’t control who comes knocking or what their needs are,” Reds general manager Dick Williams told the Cincinnati Enquirer's Zach Buchanan about those failed efforts. “This particular year, people seem to be set. It’s always good to have some depth there. We’ve got some good players. I think it’ll work itself out."
A plus defender at a premium position, Cozart is coming off a year that saw him hit .252 with 46 extra-base hits (16 home runs), 50 RBI and a .722 OPS. While he's due a raise over his $2.925 million salary last season as he enters his final year of arbitration, his 2017 salary will be affordable for nearly any team.
Other teams know the Reds want to clear a path to regular playing time for prospects Dilson Herrera and Jose Peraza, so Cincinnati doesn't have a ton of leverage in negotiations. Ultimately, a deal might not materialize until another team suffers an injury in spring training.

Of the 30 pitchers who have logged at least 500 innings over 90 starts since 2014, only 13 have a lower ERA than Jason Hammel's 3.68 mark. That's a lower ERA than the likes of Jake Odorizzi (3.72), Jeff Samardzija (3.91) and Mike Leake (4.00), among others.
At the very least, those numbers prove that Hammel is a durable, reliable starter who keeps his team in games more often than not. That helps to explain why as many as 10 teams had expressed interest in his services, as his agent Alan Nero told the Boston Globe's Nick Cafardo earlier this month.
Another reason those teams likely have interest: Signing Hammel won't cost a team a compensatory draft pick, nor will it cost nearly as much as it did San Francisco and St. Louis to sign Samardzija (five years, $90 million) and Leake (five years, $80 million), respectively, as free agents last winter.

Adam Rosales isn't a superstar or an All-Star. In fact, he's no star at all. He's the player fans groan and mumble about at the ballpark when he's in the starting lineup, replacing someone the fans believe gives their team a better chance to win.
But as San Diego manager Andy Green explained to the Cincinnati Enquirer's C. Trent Rosecrans back in June, Rosales is the guy those in the dugout want—and need—on their team.
Rosey’s so professional. He’s going to give everything he has every second of every single day no matter what. ...The great thing about him is in the limited opportunities [he gets to play], he’s been a positive guy who cares about other people. Those are veteran guys you want on the bench. He’s got six years of major-league service time, so I’m not the first manager who wanted him on a club. A lot of guys have enjoyed having him.
A capable defender at multiple positions—second base, third base, shortstop and left field—Rosales is coming off a career year that saw set new career-highs in doubles (12), home runs (13), RBI (35), slugging percentage (.495) and OPS (.815).
While the odds may be stacked against the 33-year-old in replicating that kind of production—he also played in a career-high 105 games for San Diego last season—he's more than capable of contributing to a team's success in multiple ways.
Perhaps the most enticing part of it all for teams looking to bolster their bench? Rosales, who has never earned a $1 million salary, isn't going to command much more than that on a new deal.

A late-season arm injury put a damper on what was otherwise a terrific bounce-back season for Neftali Feliz in Pittsburgh. The 28-year-old made 62 relief appearances for the Pirates, pitching to a 3.52 ERA and 1.14 WHIP with 21 walks, 61 strikeouts and 29 holds, the second-highest total in the majors.
Per Brooks Baseball, Feliz also saw an uptick in his velocity for the second consecutive year, with his 96.86 mph average fastball the highest he's posted since he served as Texas' closer in 2011. That he's capable of filling multiple bullpen roles—he can set up, close or serve as a generic middle reliever—only adds to his value.
With Aroldis Chapman, Kenley Jansen, Mark Melancon and Brad Ziegler all off the board, Feliz is one of, if not the most intriguing free-agent relievers still available. His history of arm issues might scare off some teams, but a healthy Feliz can still be a force at the back of a team's bullpen.

Speaking of players whose true value can't be expressed statistically, we find Mike Napoli floating adrift in the sea of unsigned first base/designated hitter-types, with Edwin Encarnacion, Mark Trumbo and even Chris Carter getting more attention than the 35-year-old at times.
 “The guy’s a stud, man,” Cleveland closer Cody Allen told the Boston Globe's Julian Benbow in October. “...You could be from anywhere in the world, you could have different beliefs, whatever your background is, you’re going to get along with that guy. He’s going to push you, he’s going to make you better. He keeps everything moving in the right direction. He’s a big part of our culture change in the clubhouse."
Having the ability to make that kind of an impact in the clubhouse carries significant value by itself. But Napoli is more than a glorified cheerleader and veteran leader.
He's coming off a season that saw him slug a career-high 34 home runs and crack triple digits in RBI for the first time, finishing the year with 101. Aside from his pop, Napoli remains adept at drawing walks and getting on base consistently.
Even if his defense continues to trend in the wrong direction, Napoli's leadership and offense make him a worthy addition to nearly any American League team's lineup, especially those looking to move past the "fringe contender" label.
                     
Unless otherwise noted, all statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs. All contract information courtesy of Cot's Contracts (via Baseball Prospectus).

The Tampa Bay Rays don't have to trade Chris Archer. If they do, they can demand the moon, the stars and a few spare celestial bodies.
According to Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times, the Rays are seeking an even bigger package for Archer than the one the Boston Red Sox sent to the Chicago White Sox for Chris Sale.
To refresh your memory, that package was headlined by Yoan Moncada, the No. 1 prospect in baseball according to MLB.com. It also featured fireballer Michael Kopech (MLB.com's No. 30 prospect), plus outfielder Luis Alexander Basabe (now the White Sox's No. 9 prospect) and Victor Diaz, another hard-throwing MiLB arm.
That's eye-popping, but it's the going rate for an ace-level starter in his prime with years of affordable control.
That describes Sale. It also describes Archer.
Archer, who turned 28 in September, is six months older than Sale. Sale has accumulated a 16.6 WAR between 2014 and 2016, compared to Archer's 11.5, by FanGraphs' measure.
But while Sale is signed for $38 million over the next three seasons—including a pair of team options—Archer is locked in for just over $39 million for five seasons. Archer's deal, like Sale's, includes a pair of team options—for $9 million in 2020 and $11 million in 2021.
Next season, he's due to make a shade under $5 million. In today's market, that's not merely affordable, it's damn close to highway robbery. Plus, the extra two years of control help make up for any disparity in Sale's and Archer's stats.

Here's the part where we talk about Archer's 2016 season, which was uneven. In fact, if you glance at his 9-19 record and 4.02 ERA, you could argue he was downright mediocre.
There's more to it than that, however. Archer struck out 233 in 201.1 innings. His 3.41 xFIP suggested a degree of bad luck. His average fastball velocity of 94.3 mph was virtually identical to his career mark of 94.5.
Most encouragingly, he put up a 3.25 ERA after the All-Star break.
"I think he simplified some things and realized ultimately he had to do a better job of throwing more strikes," Rays skipper Kevin Cash said, per Topkin. "Whether it's fastball, slider or changeup, it's getting it over the plate. A lot of that, once you show a lineup or the first couple hitters that you're willing to throw strikes, you open up a lot of avenues to get them out."
He's not broken, in other words. We're talking about a guy who made the All-Star team and finished fifth in American League Cy Young Award voting in 2015. A return to form isn't merely possible—given Archer's second-half rebound and the lack of health or velocity red flags, it's probable.
We've established he's a shiny prize worth mortgaging at least a portion of the farm. Who has the prospects, and the need, to blow Tampa Bay away?
The Atlanta Braves have been linked to Archer at least since early November, per MLB Network's Jon Morosi. 
It's possible the Rays would demand shortstop Dansby Swanson, MLB.com's No. 4 prospect and close to an untouchable asset.
But Atlanta could build a strong offer around another highly rated middle infielder: Ozzie Albies, a 19-year-old switch-hitter and MLB.com's No. 12 prospect.
Albies hit .292 with 30 stolen bases between Double-A and Triple-A and has the tools and talent to match or even exceed Swanson's ceiling.
To approximate what the Red Sox gave up for Sale, the Braves would likely have to part with two of their top pitching prospects. Like, say, southpaw Sean Newcomb (MLB.com's No. 47 prospect) and right-hander Ian Anderson (MLB.com's No. 77 prospect).
Toss in another lower-ranked chip with some upside, and you're looking at an offer comparable to if not greater than the Sale bounty.
It would sting for Atlanta. No doubt fans who want to see the franchise rebuild with a homegrown foundation would balk.
As the Braves prepare to move into their new stadium in 2017, though, Archer would give them the franchise-defining stud they need. 
There are other potential matches. The Los Angeles Dodgers already re-signed Rich Hill to join Clayton Kershaw and Kenta Maeda atop their rotation. But, well, insert the cliche about how you can never have too much pitching.
The Dodgers have a fertile farm headlined by top pitching prospects Julio Urias and Jose De Leon and first baseman/outfielder Cody Bellinger. Plus, Archer has connections to Andrew Friedman, the Dodgers' president of baseball operations, from their days together in Tampa Bay.
Heck, the New York Yankees have the No. 1 farm system in baseball, according to Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter, and they need starting pitching. 
They appear committed to their youth movement and holding onto blue chips like outfielder Clint Frazier and shortstop Gleyber Torres. They also could be loath to trade top prospects within the division.
Then again, you never know. They're the Yankees, after all.

The Rays are under no great pressure to move Archer now. They can hold out for a king's ransom, and if they don't get it, they can keep him at least until the trade deadline, when prospective buyers will be even more desperate.
Tampa Bay may choose to trade another starter, including Drew Smyly and Alex Cobb, as Joel Sherman of the New York Post noted.
There are a lot of ways this could go, and many of them end with Archer remaining in central Florida for another half-season at least.
If and when the Rays let Archer go, it should be for a price that shifts the firmament. Recent bumps aside, he's that kind of player.
      
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.

Chicago Cubs manager Joe Maddon defended himself Saturday after Aroldis Chapman criticized his usage in the World Series.
"Would I do it differently? No," Maddon said in an interview with the New York Post's Kevin Kernan. "There is no Game 7 without winning Game 6. And there is no Game 8 if you don’t win Game 7. That’s why you do what you have to do."
Chapman appeared in Games 6 and 7 of the Fall Classic. His inclusion in Game 6 was surprising considering the Cubs were up 7-2 at the time. The four-time All-Star had also thrown a season-high 42 pitches two days earlier.
By the time Chapman took the mound in the eighth inning of Game 7, he looked gassed. He allowed an RBI double to Brandon Guyer and then a game-tying home run to Rajai Davis.
"The important game was going to be Game 7," Chapman said of appearing in Game 6, per the New York Times' Billy Witz. "We had that game almost won. And the next day I came in and I was tired."
Maddon's position is understandable. The Cubs acquired Chapman exactly for the purpose of pitching in high-leverage situations in the postseason. 
At the same time, Chapman's critique isn't without merit. He was overworked in the playoffs, and it nearly cost the Cubs a title.
Maddon told Kernan that Chapman never raised any issues with his workload in the World Series. Chapman, however, said he felt he wasn't in a position to decline any opportunity to pitch, per Witz:
I never told him my opinion about the way he was using me because the way I feel is that, as baseball players, we're warriors. Our job is to do what we need to do on the field. But if they send me out there to pitch, I'm going to go out there and pitch. If I'm healthy, I'm going to go out there and pitch. If I'm tired, I'm going to put that aside and just get through it.
Chapman's workload almost certainly would've been a bigger story had the Indians won Game 7. Instead, everything worked out well for him and Maddon.
Together, they helped the Cubs win their first World Series since 1908. Chapman also parlayed his 2016 success into a five-year, $86 million deal with the New York Yankees earlier this month.  

The Chicago White Sox and first baseman Jose Abreu reached an agreement Saturday on a one-year contract extension to avoid arbitration.
Chicago announced the new deal on its official Twitter account. Scott Merkin of MLB.com reported the power-hitting infielder will earn $10.825 million in 2017.
Abreu has made a massive impact across his first three years in the majors. He's cranked 91 home runs to go along with a .299 batting average and a .360 on-base percentage. In addition, he's also tallied at least 100 runs batted in every year.
The Cuba native's success quickly eliminated any concerns about his transition as a 27-year-old rookie after a successful career in the Cuban National Series. He's proved himself as one of the most impactful offensive contributors in the American League.
In September, Daryl Van Schouwen of the Chicago Sun-Times noted the first baseman lamented the fact that his individual numbers haven't translated into team success, stating, "In this sport nobody likes to lose."
He expressed an interest in sticking with the organization for the long haul, though:
I'm going to forever be grateful to this organization because of everything they've done for me. I would like to play my whole career in the U.S., with this team, because it's like my family. They were the ones who gave me the opportunity, they were the ones who helped me through the whole process to come here and to become a U.S. resident. They have been very supportive of me, and my family, too. I want to be with this team, to be an important part of this team and to win a championship with this team.
The latest contract is a small step toward that goal. It also represents a minor pay raise after he made $10 million in 2016 before exercising an opt-out clause in his prior deal, per Spotrac.
He's been the subject of some trade rumors this offseason as well. Thomas Harding of MLB.com reported in early December the White Sox and Colorado Rockies engaged in "preliminary talks" about a potential deal. It's unclear whether those discussions ever advanced beyond the exploratory stage.
For now, he's slated to hit in the middle of the Chicago order. It's a lineup featuring some strength from the No. 2 through No. 5 spots with Abreu, Tim Anderson, Todd Frazier and Melky Cabrera. But the rest is patchwork as the club enters a rebuilding phase.
Ultimately, the White Sox's decision to revamp the system could lead to an Abreu trade. It will be difficult to find another player or prospect capable of replacing his pop, though.
                                              


Holiday shopping isn't limited to citizens, as all 30 Major League Baseball teams continue to scour the market to find trades that will benefit them in 2017 and beyond. 
Just as all of us are doing deep research on whether The Last Guardian or Final Fantasy XV is the better holiday video-game release to purchase, front offices are vigorously debating the best way to approach things with a free-agent investment or deal will make the most impact. 
For the purposes of this discussion, let's operate under the assumption deals will be the order of the day because they are often more interesting to dissect since two teams, in theory, stand to benefit from a trade. 
 
No team best exemplifies the fickle nature of offseason dealing than the Los Angeles Dodgers, who may be changing their tune about one of their best prospects in an effort to upgrade the MLB roster. 
Per Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports, the Dodgers are now showing a "willingness" to include right-handed pitcher Jose De Leon in a trade for Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier. 
This report comes two days after ESPN's Doug Padilla reported the Dodgers were reluctant to build a package around De Leon for Dozier. 
De Leon was rated as the No. 33 prospect in baseball by MLB.com last season, with this glowing scouting report:
De Leon's stuff significantly improved in pro ball after he upgraded his conditioning and mechanics. He works at 92-94 mph and can reach 96 mph with his fastball, which has riding life. De Leon's changeup progressed so much in 2015 that it has become his best secondary pitch, and he also has a low-80s slider that's effective.
De Leon made a brief appearance in the big leagues last season, posting a 6.35 ERA with 15 strikeouts and seven walks in 17 innings. 
Considering how bad the Twins pitching staff was in 2016, including getting the sixth-fewest innings (875.1) from their starters, it's no wonder why they would be pursuing young, cost-controlled starters if they are going to deal Dozier. 
The Dodgers are in an interesting position, especially with their young pitchers. They are going to need a lot of depth since they will start 2017 with injury-prone starters Rich Hill, Scott Kazmir, Brandon McCarthy and Alex Wood penciled into the rotation behind Clayton Kershaw. 
But they are also not in a position to wait for those young starters, like De Leon, to develop in the big leagues with a roster capable of making a deep playoff run. The biggest hole among their position players is at second base, which is currently unoccupied with Chase Utley being a free agent. 
Dozier would certainly be an upgrade over anything the Dodgers got at the position in 2016. He won't hit 42 home runs, which was 14 more than he ever hit in a season, again. But even if he reverts back to his 2014 form with a .242/.345/.416 slash line with 23 home runs, that's a win for them because he's eight years younger than Utley and under contract through 2018. 
 

The Colorado Rockies have had one of the most interesting offseasons to date, though not in ways that make them strong playoff contenders.
Ian Desmond had a fantastic first half in 2016 before reverting back to his 2015 self with a .237/.283/.347 line after the All-Star break, yet the Rockies decided to guarantee him five years and give up the No. 11 draft pick to do so. 
The Rockies followed that up by signing 31-year-old reliever Mike Dunn, who has a 3.54 career ERA and 1.37 WHIP, to a three-year deal that was announced on Thursday. 
One potential move that seemed like a foregone conclusion for the Rockies was a trade involving Charlie Blackmon, though that doesn't seem likely given what they are asking in return. 
Per ESPN's Jayson Stark, rival teams are less sure about Blackmon getting dealt because they will only do it if they receive "an Adam Eaton type deal."
The Washington Nationals acquired Eaton from the Chicago White Sox for Lucas Giolito, Reynaldo Lopez and Dane Dunning. 
In case you are wondering what kind of package that is, MLB.com ranked Giolito as the No. 3 prospect in baseball, Lopez as the No. 38 prospect and Dunning was Washington's No. 6 prospect. 
There are two key differences between Eaton and Blackmon, which make a comparable deal seem unlikely. The first—and most obvious—is contract status.
Eaton will make a total of $38.4 million on his current deal that runs through 2021, per Spotrac. Blackmon has just two more years of team control before he can become a free agent. 
The other major difference is Blackmon has played his entire career in Colorado, which has played a substantial role inflating his numbers since his MLB debut in 2011.
If teams could guarantee they were getting the Coors Field version of Blackmon, then his two years of control wouldn't be as big of an issue in giving up a huge return. But Colorado has a knack for inflating numbers for pedestrian hitters, which is why the Rockies shouldn't overplay their hand. 
 

The Tampa Bay Rays are constantly exploring ways to improve their roster, mostly out of necessity because there is always a very-limited amount of money they can spend on talent, which is why rumblings of them dealing a starter have basically been non-stop for a year. 
Passan reported on Dec. 6 the Rays were "almost certain to deal a starter," with Drew Smyly and Alex Cobb generating strong interest. 
However, there's likely a reason nearly two weeks have passed with no deals involving Rays pitchers. Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times reported on Dec. 10 they are "are seeking massive returns on just about everybody asked about."
It's certainly a reasonable position for the Rays to take. The starting-pitching market for free agents is dreadful, with Hill being the best available option before he re-signed with the Dodgers. 
Smyly is coming off a down year in 2016 with a 4.88 ERA in 175.1 innings, but he's a left-hander under team control for two more seasons and has a 3.74 career ERA with 552 strikeouts in 570.1 innings since 2012. 
Cobb is a more interesting case because last year doesn't really count. He returned on September 2 after undergoing Tommy John surgery in 2014, so his 8.59 ERA in 22 innings comes with a huge asterisk. 
In 2013-14, Cobb was terrific with a 2.82 ERA with 283 strikeouts and just 262 hits allowed in 309.2 innings. He only has one more year of control left, leaving the Rays between a rock and a hard place.
On one hand, moving Cobb now could net a better return since a team acquiring him would receive a full year of starts from him. And on the chance his elbow flares up on him again, the Rays don't have to worry about it. 
On the other hand, supposing Cobb puts together a strong first half, he could end up being one of the most attractive trade chips in July and get several contenders seeking another starter in a bidding war. 
It's not an ideal situation for the Rays to be in, but they have proven in the past with players like Matt Moore they won't hesitate to make a deal when they get an offer to their liking. 

I hate to break it to the following MLB teams, but, um, well...it may be too late for them to save their best-laid plans for the winter.
In fairness, the hot stove season isn't a walk in the park. It's more like a stroll through a minefield. Things don't always go as planned even for teams that carefully chart their courses.
We're here to talk about four such teams. Their situations are largely different, but what they have in common is they're now left to pick up the pieces from grand offseason plans that have fizzled. Some are in deeper trouble than others, such as the...
    
Miami Marlins

The Marlins were the little engine that could in 2016, staying in second place in the National League East until late August. But they started slipping in September and then experienced an unthinkable tragedy when ace pitcher Jose Fernandez died in a boating accident.
Mourning came first, but the Marlins were eventually going to have to address what was a mediocre starting rotation even despite Fernandez's efforts. That put them in a bind with a free-agent market devoid of top-of-the-rotation talent.
Thus, the Marlins settled for a couple of depth signings with Edinson Volquez and Jeff Locke. Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, their plan to get around their lack of starting talent was to instead filter talent into their bullpen. They wanted a "super pen."
Not a bad idea! The Marlins bullpen was powerful and effective in 2016, averaging an NL-best 94.0 mph in fastball velocity with a solid 3.63 ERA. If they could add Aroldis Chapman or Kenley Jansen, they would indeed have a super pen that could downplay their weak starting rotation.
Well, nobody can say they didn't try.

Heyman reported the Marlins were willing to go above $80 million to sign Chapman, but he took $86 million from the New York Yankees instead. According to Joe Frisaro of MLB.com, the Marlins offered Jansen more than the $80 million he accepted from the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Like that, the Marlins whiffed on the guys who could have granted their wish. Plan B is looking less audacious.
The Marlins have signed Junichi Tazawa, who is perfectly serviceable but no more than that. Frisaro reported they've also signed Brad Ziegler, who is better but still not the shutdown reliever Miami desires.
The only way the Marlins can get back on that path is by turning to the trade market, where big targets like Zach Britton and David Robertson reside. But this is unrealistic. With a farm system that Baseball America ranked at No. 29 going into 2016, the Marlins are not well off with prospects. Also, it's not good for their leverage that the word is out how badly they want an ace closer.
The Marlins might have had a shot at upsetting the 2017 NL East race if they'd gotten their super pen. But now whatever shot they have will be of the long variety. The Marlins weren't better than the Washington Nationals or New York Mets in 2016, and they haven't gotten better this winter.
But speaking of teams in the NL East with closer trouble...
    
Washington Nationals

Mind you, the Nationals aren't quite in the same boat as the Marlins. They began the winter in a better place after winning 95 games and the NL East in 2016. They've also advanced forward. Despite some bellyaching to the contrary, their trade for Adam Eaton is just fine.
And yet Washington's offseason is just as easily defined by its misses as by that one hit.
At one point, Heyman reported it had a "clear lead" in the sweepstakes for Chris Sale before he went to the Boston Red Sox. Per Heyman, it also made a run at Andrew McCutchen that didn't pan out.
By that point, the Nationals had already missed out on re-signing Mark Melancon to fill their closer hole. According to ESPN.com's Jayson Stark, that prompted a run at Wade Davis. They then turned to Jansen after the Chicago Cubs traded for Davis. According to Sherman, he turned down more money to return to the Dodgers.

The good news despite all this is that a closer is all the Nationals need.
Getting Eaton instead of McCutchen filled their center field vacancy. Getting Sale would have been nice, but a rotation that posted a 3.60 ERA in 2016 didn't need him. Also not to be forgotten is their decision to trade for a healthy Derek Norris rather than re-sign an injured Wilson Ramos to play catcher. As is, the Nationals are easily projected to win the 2017 NL East race at FanGraphs.
But while another NL East title would be nice, it's a World Series the Nationals are after. And if recent Octobers have made anything clear, it's that nothing helps translate regular-season success to postseason success quite like a deep and talented bullpen.
With only Shawn Kelley and Blake Treinen possessing reliable arms, the Nationals don't have one of those. Their best options for fixing that now reside on the trade market, where they figure to encounter a problem referenced above: a lack of leverage relating to their desperation being out in the open.
What's most likely to happen is the Nationals going into 2017 without a true closer and winging it. Risky, but at least that sounds better than the situation in Pittsburgh...
    
Pittsburgh Pirates

The Pirates fell hard from grace in 2016, winning 20 fewer games than they did in 2015. Starting pitching that was normally good went bad, and McCutchen went from an MVP-caliber player to a replacement-level player.
It sure seemed like the Pirates were committed to solving the latter issue by trading McCutchen before his value can sink any further. A deal with the Nationals seemed inevitable during the winter meetings.
That fell through, and it's prompted the club to start singing a different tune.
"Our intent coming in here was to have Andrew McCutchen in our lineup going forward. No one changed that," Pirates general manager Neal Huntington said, via Adam Berry of MLB.com. "It's unlikely that someone changes that going forward. We're not going to close the door, but we're not going to be making calls."
If the latest from Heyman is any indication, the Pirates may indeed be taking a hardline stance on not wanting to force a trade:
pirates received nice offer of prospects from mystery team for mccutchen but seeks MLB now or MLB ready players. so no go.
With proper leverage, the Pirates might find a team willing to grant their wish. But with the Nationals filling their center field need with Eaton and the Texas Rangers filling theirs by re-signing Carlos Gomez, it doesn't help their cause that the two best fits for McCutchen are now accounted for.
As for how McCutchen is holding up, it seems all the rumors put a chip on the former MVP's shoulder.
"I didn't like almost being traded," he said Dec. 10, via Pirates Breakdown. "I don't know anything outside of Pittsburgh. It's very tough. It can be a part of the game."
There's a bridge to be repaired here. What could make that harder is that, per Heyman, the Pirates also want to discuss moving McCutchen out of center field and into a corner outfield spot. A sound idea, but awkward timing.
Meanwhile, the Pirates have done nothing to shore up their starting pitching woes.

Their best hope is to re-sign Ivan Nova, but even he could be outside their price range. MLB Trade Rumors projected him to earn $52 million this winter. That's $13 million more than the Pirates have ever paid a free agent.
The Pirates could dip into their considerable prospect depth to try to make a splash on the trade market. But after it took a huge haul for the Red Sox to get Sale, it would probably take everything the Pirates had to land Jose Quintana or Chris Archer.
As if the Pirates needed another headache, third baseman Jung Ho Kang was recently arrested for DUI and is only a few months removed from a sexual assault allegation. Hint: Go buy stock in aspirin.
From rough seas in the Steel City, there ain't no mountain high enough to keep us from diving into the weird times in Motown...
    
Detroit Tigers

Rather than give way to speculation the Tigers would break up after a second straight postseason-less year in 2016, GM Al Avila seemed to promise early in the winter they would.
"We want to get younger. We want to get leaner. We want to run the organization without having to go over our means," Avila said in November to MLB.com's Jason Beck. "We want to stay competitive, but at the same time, this organization has been working way above its means for some time.”
Like that, it was easy to see all Detroit's chips on the table. Justin Verlander was an option for starting pitcher-needy teams. Ian Kinsler was an asset on the second base market. Miguel Cabrera, J.D. Martinez, Victor Martinez and Justin Upton could be marketed to teams in need of power.
Several weeks later, though, they're all still there. And likely for good.

Due to his age and the size of his contract, Verlander will not yield the assets Sale did for the White Sox. The open market being loaded with sluggers has seemingly crushed the demand for Detroit's sluggers. Kinsler has an obvious fit with the Dodgers, but his no-trade clause is a big hurdle in the way of a deal.
This puts the Tigers in a position to stay the course for 2017. With a good chunk of their core already past the age of 30, it'll basically be a last hurrah.
Trouble is, the Tigers don't project to be very good. FanGraphs has them down for 83 wins, putting them well short of the Cleveland Indians in the AL Central power structure.
Beyond merely being another disappointment, 2017 also has the capacity to set the Tigers' future back by a few years. If all the above players regress from their 2016 performances, their trade value will slide accordingly. Whereas the Tigers might have been able to get talent for them now, they may only be able to dump their salaries later. That would be no help to a farm system that needs it.
Assuming they remain open for business, there's still time for the Tigers to deal some of their veterans and take their first step toward a new era. But it seems more likely that step will not occur, pushing that new era even further into the realm of abstraction.
    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted/linked.


It's a story as old as Hollywood itself: A talented performer from the Midwest packs his or her bags and heads to Southern California to seek stardom.
If the Los Angeles Dodgers acquire Brian Dozier from the Minnesota Twins, that yarn could unspool on the MLB stage next season.
First, the latest rumor, courtesy of Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan:
Sources: Dodgers have shown willingness to include top pitching prospect Jose DeLeon in a deal for Brian Dozier. Would be strong headliner.
We've heard Dozier-to-L.A. rumblings all offseason—it's a marriage that makes sense, as Bleacher Report's Zachary D. Rymer outlined.
Including Jose De Leon—the No. 6 right-handed pitching prospect in baseball, per MLB.com—could accelerate talks, especially if Los Angeles adds high-upside ancillary pieces. 
It's speculation, but let's assume a swap is consummated before the spring thaw and Dozier dons blue in 2017.
If that happens, it could propel the 29-year-old second baseman into the big league firmament.
It's not as if Dozier is invisible now. He was an All-Star in 2015 and went off last season, setting career highs in home runs (42), RBI (99) and OPS (.886).
Let's face it, though: The Twins are the Twins. They toil in a small market and haven't made the playoffs since 2010, two years before Dozier debuted.
In September, Anthony Castrovince of Sports on Earth outlined how the Twins' futility diminished Dozier's accomplishments:
Unfortunately, Dozier's 2016, in which he could eclipse Davey Johnson's 1973 record for home runs by a second baseman (43) and might very well become just the 13th player in history to hit 30 second-half homers, is the latest and most highly visible example of the lost season -- a year extraordinary in individual significance but, sadly, ineffectual in its standings significance. 
Granted, Minnesota has produced its share of stars, from Rod Carew to Kirby Puckett.
Los Angeles, however, is where glitz meets glam. The Dodgers are baseball's biggest spenders and, aside from the New York Yankees, arguably MLB's most nationally and internationally visible franchise. 
They're also good. After laying down almost $200 million to bring back left-hander Rich Hill, closer Kenley Jansen and third baseman Justin Turner, the Dodgers are positioned to reach the postseason for the fifth consecutive year. 
There's no guarantee with the archrival San Francisco Giants and retooled Colorado Rockies lurking in the NL West. Netting Dozier, though, could push L.A. over the hump into full-fledged front-runner status. 
He'd add much-needed right-handed thump to the Dodgers' lefty-heavy lineup and join a strong offensive core that includes Turner, first baseman Adrian Gonzalez and reigning NL Rookie of the Year Corey Seager.
It's possible Dozier's numbers could dip at Chavez Ravine. Dodger Stadium was the second-least hitter-friendly yard in the game last season, according to ESPN's Park Factors statistic, while Minnesota's Target Field checked in at No. 9.
Dozier, however, has even career home/road splits, which suggests his bat plays anywhere.

Steamer projects a notable decline in home run production from Dozier in 2017, from 42 to 27, per FanGraphs. Something in the neighborhood of 30 homers from the second base position, though, would still make him a top-tier player. Add the L.A. publicity bump, and we're talking another All-Star nod and notoriety aplenty.
How is Dozier handling the chatter?
"It can get overwhelming at times," he said, per USA Today's Gabe Lacques. "I'm not going to sit here and lie to you and not look at the online [trade] stuff, because I do. It's my career; you want to see how other teams value you, evaluate you and what the Twins think of you."
If he thinks this is overwhelming, wait till he gets a load of the SoCal spotlight. If he gets a load of it, that is. 
Dozier can see past the glare. He's already one of the game's top second basemen. Now, he has a chance to pack his bags and aim even higher.
Take heed, Tinseltown—it could be one heck of a story.
        
All statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

The Miami Marlins announced Friday they have signed free-agent relief pitcher Brad Ziegler.
Ziegler's contract is a two-year, $16 million deal plus incentives, according to Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal on Dec. 16. 
MLB.com's Joe Frisaro later confirmed Rosenthal's reports. 
The 37-year-old has been one of baseball's most underrated relievers over his nine professional seasons. 
With the Oakland Athletics, Arizona Diamondbacks and, most recently, the Boston Red Sox for half of a season, Ziegler has posted a career 2.44 ERA with a WHIP of 1.228, per Baseball-Reference.com. 
He's been close to lights-out over the past two seasons, posting a 1.85 ERA and 30 saves in 66 appearances during 2015 with the Diamondbacks. 
Ziegler racked up 13 saves and a 2.82 ERA in 36 games in 2016 before he was dealt to the Red Sox. In Boston, he allowed just five earned runs in 29.2 innings as more of a middle reliever:
A sidearm delivery, which at times can dip down to almost that of the submarine variety, has made Ziegler such a tough pitcher to read.
The various arm angles, especially from an unorthodox position, camouflage the ball in a way that makes the batter unable to pick it up as quickly as a pitcher with an overhand delivery. 
It's a much-needed acquisition for the Marlins bullpen, which lost out on big-time free agents Kenley Jansen and Aroldis Chapman this offseason but did manage to sign former Red Sox reliever Junichi Tazawa, per ESPN.com.
Now with Ziegler joining Tazawa in Miami, the Marlins have more options alongside A.J. Ramos for late-inning situations come 2017. 
             
Follow @JoePantorno on Twitter.
Dee Gordon names his top three Christmas movies ahead of the holiday.
 
UNINTERRUPTED is a distributed media platform totally dedicated to athletes, fans and lovers of sport. UNINTERRUPTED is not journalism. Producing a wide range of unique, creative and captivating content, UNINTERRUPTED empowers athletes to let the world see what they see, develop their most creative ideas and tell the stories most important to them. As sports media and cultural influence continues to expand, UNINTERRUPTED is committed to the voice of athletes and the audience that wants to go deeper.
Tampa Bay Rays center fielder Kevin Kiermaier is changing things up this offseason, spending some time during the holidays in Montana.
UNINTERRUPTED is a distributed media platform totally dedicated to athletes, fans and lovers of sport. UNINTERRUPTED is not journalism. Producing a wide range of unique, creative and captivating content, UNINTERRUPTED empowers athletes to let the world see what they see, develop their most creative ideas and tell the stories most important to them. As sports media and cultural influence continue to expand, UNINTERRUPTED is committed to the voice of athletes and the audience that wants to go deeper.   

Although closer Aroldis Chapman helped deliver the Chicago Cubs a World Series title last season, he delivered a parting shot Friday after his return to the New York Yankees became official.
The Cuban superstar told reporters he wasn't a fan of the manner in which Cubs manager Joe Maddon deployed him during the World Series: "Personally, I don't agree with the way he used me, but he is the manager and he has the strategy. My job is to be ready, to be ready to pitch, however that is, however many innings that is, I need to be ready for that. I need to go in and do my job."
Chapman pointed specifically to Game 6, which saw him throw 20 pitches and record four outs after throwing 42 pitches and recording eight outs in Game 5: "There were couple of games, but the one I can point to is Game 6. The game was open and I don't think he needed to [leave] me in the ninth. The important game was going to be Game 7 because we had that game almost won. The next day I came in tired."
Chapman's fatigue showed in Game 7, as he blew a save by surrendering three hits and two earned runs in 1.1 innings.
He did pick up the victory, though, as the Cubbies regained the lead, and Mike Montgomery closed it out.
Although Chapman questioned Maddon's tactics in retrospect, he said he did not voice concern with his former manager at the time and believed it was important to be ready in any and all situations:
I never told him about my opinion with the way he was using me. The way I feel as baseball players we are warriors. Our job is to be ready to do what we need to do on the field. They send me out there to pitch, I'm going to go out there and pitch.
If I'm healthy, I'm going to go out there and pitch. If I'm tired, I'm going to put that aside and just get through it. It is kind of like a warrior, they send you somewhere and you have to go there and your mentality is you have to go there and do your job.
The Cubs acquired Chapman as a rental from the Yanks prior to the trade deadline last season, but he is a Bronx Bomber once again after signing a five-year, $86 million contract, per MLB.com's Bryan Hoch.
New York traded for the fireballer last offseason, and he was suspended for the first 30 games under Major League Baseball's domestic violence policy.
Upon his return, Chapman settled in as the Yankees closer behind Dellin Betances and Andrew Miller, and he excelled with a 3-0 record, 2.01 ERA, 0.89 WHIP, 44 strikeouts in 31.1 innings and 20 saves in 21 chances while donning pinstripes.
Chapman was even better down the stretch with the Cubs, postseason struggles notwithstanding.
The 28-year-old veteran will be New York's closer once again in 2017, and although Miller is with the Cleveland Indians, Betances will serve in a setup role to reprise two-thirds of the "DMC" relief trio.
Maddon's decisions weren't optimal for Chapman ahead of his attempt to cash in during free agency, but everything worked out in the end, as the Cubs ended a historic title drought and Chapman landed a historic contract.
       
Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter.

The big story coming into Major League Baseball's offseason was how teams would play the trade market, because this year's crop of free agents wasn't particularly impressive. 
This has already played out in a huge way with the Chicago White Sox officially entering rebuilding mode by trading Chris Sale to the Boston Red Sox and Adam Eaton to the Washington Nationals in the span of 24 hours. 
Despite those moves, there are still deals to be made. It always comes down to finding one team willing to pay the price another team has established. The Red Sox and Nationals have aggressive general managers with teams in win-now mode. 
Few teams operate like that for various reasons, but the allure of winning a championship now or getting key pieces to do it in the future makes for interesting points of discussion. 
    
The Los Angeles Dodgers answered their two biggest free-agent question marks with Ken Gurnick of MLB.com reporting Kenley Jansen agreed to a five-year, $80 million deal and Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reporting third baseman Justin Turner agreed to a four-year, $64 million deal. 
Those deals, while certainly notable, also represent the Dodgers' status quo. They have been part of postseason heartbreaks each of the previous two years against the New York Mets and Chicago Cubs. 
Now, the real test for Dodgers president of baseball operations Andrew Friedman will be to find missing pieces to get his team over that hump and into the World Series for the first time since 1988. 
Per ESPN.com's Doug Padilla, the Dodgers are still showing interest in trading for Minnesota Twins second baseman Brian Dozier. 
However, Padilla did note a potential deal for Dozier would likely require the Dodgers to part with star pitching prospect Jose De Leon and that they "are reluctant to part with" him. 
Second base remains an alarming black hole for the Dodgers right now. Chase Utley was a good platoon player in 2016, hitting .273/.343/.425 against right-handed pitching and just .154/.206/.264 against lefties.

Utley's not a long-term solution. He turns 38 on Friday but might end up being the default solution for the team if it can't figure out a possible trade. 
It makes sense for the Twins to try trading Dozier now when his value is never going to be higher. He's coming off a career year in which he hit 42 home runs and signed for a total of $15 million through 2018, per Baseball-Reference.com.
The Dodgers learned last year how valuable depth is after tying a dubious MLB record with 27 players spending time on the disabled list.
It becomes harder to make a trade, which will likely require at least two high-quality assets going back to Minnesota in return, but the Dodgers have been so close to the World Series over the last four years. At some point, being overaggressive to upgrade a position of desperate need makes sense. 
Friedman is not one to overreact to what's happening with teams around him, though I never would have expected him to give a reliever five years on a contract before Jansen proved me wrong. 
    
Any hopes the Oakland Athletics might have had about building a blockbuster trade package around starting pitcher Sonny Gray appear to be dashed, at least so far this offseason. 
Per Rosenthal, Gray is generating "little interest" from around the league. 
It's certainly not hard to figure out why Gray's market would be limited.
He spent time on the disabled list last season, making just 22 starts (his fewest in three full MLB seasons) and posted career-worst marks in ERA (5.69), WHIP (1.496), hits allowed per nine innings (10.2), home runs allowed per nine innings (1.4), strikeouts per nine innings (7.2), strikeout-to-walk ratio (2.24) and wins above replacement (-0.5), per Baseball-Reference.com. 
Despite those numbers, Gray figures to get a substantial raise in 2017, the first year he's eligible for arbitration. Tim Dierkes of MLB Trade Rumors estimates the 27-year-old will make $3.7 million. 
Salary isn't going to be an issue holding teams back from acquiring Gray. It's just hard to figure out what kind of pitcher he will be moving forward. 
If the A's tried to trade Gray last offseason, right after he finished third in the American League Cy Young voting, they could have asked for a package fairly close to what the White Sox received for Chris Sale because he's under team control through 2019. 
Unfortunately, Gray doesn't look the part of a No. 1 starter. He's listed at 5'10" and 190 pounds on the A's official website. Given his small stature, teams can look at his breakdown in 2016 as an indication the heavy workload from the previous two seasons caught up to him. 
The A's don't have to be in a rush to trade Gray, especially with his value at its lowest point. Keeping him to start 2017 while hoping he can re-establish himself as a top-of-the-rotation starter in order to trade him in July or next offseason makes sense for the franchise. 
    
The New York Mets hoped when they acquired Jay Bruce in July that he would provide a similar spark to what they received from Yoenis Cespedes the previous year. 
Instead, Bruce floundered in 50 games with the Mets. He hit .219/.294/.391 in 169 at-bats with the team and is scheduled to earn $13 million in 2017, per Spotrac. 
The Mets are in a difficult spot right now with too many outfielders, particularly in corner spots, for too few spots. Bruce, Cespedes, Curtis Granderson and Michael Conforto are all in the mix. 
Per Joel Sherman of the New York Post, the Mets would prefer to deal Bruce instead of Granderson. 
Marc Carig of Newsday noted the Mets were "optimistic" about their chances of finding a taker for Bruce at the winter meetings, only to leave Washington D.C. with the same logjam they had when they arrived. 

Given Bruce's high salary and mediocre performance over the last three seasons, which has been worth a total of 0.2 FanGraphs' wins above replacement, the market won't be clamoring for that kind of player. 
Cespedes will likely end up starting the year in center field, despite FanGraphs noting he cost the Mets seven runs in less than 500 innings at the position last season, because the team doesn't have anyone else for the position. 
Juan Lagares is a tremendous defensive center fielder, but no team can support a .298 career-on base percentage from the position. 
Conforto needs to start playing regularly, or else the Mets run the risk of completely running off one of their best young players. Granderson is going to play because he's a better option than Bruce at this point. 
It's not a good situation the Mets have put themselves in, though they may not have a way out of it unless they decide to trade a player like Granderson or Conforto, both of whom will be more intriguing to teams in search of outfield help. 

Not every baseball fan keeps an eye on prospect development and the minor league ranks, but most are familiar with the top prospects around the league.
It wasn't just Boston Red Sox fans and Washington Nationals fans whose ears perked up when they heard that Yoan Moncada and Lucas Giolito had been traded during the winter meetings.
So what exactly is it that makes a previously unheralded prospect a household name? We'll lump them into two categories:
Ahead we've taken a crack at identifying one prospect from each MLB team that has a chance of falling into one of those two categories this coming season.
For the sake of clearly identifying which prospects already rank as household names, anyone that appeared on Baseball America's midseason top-100 list was not eligible to be included.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Just like a collegiate prospect can put himself on the MLB draft radar with a strong showing in the Cape Cod Baseball League, an MLB prospect can put himself on the prospect radar with a standout performance in the Arizona Fall League.
That's exactly what 6'7" lefty Jared Miller did this fall.
Miller posted a 5.88 ERA and 1.68 WHIP at the Single-A level in 2015 while being used primarily as a starter, promoting the team to move him to the bullpen and send him back to Single-A to start the 2016 season.
After he opened the year with 14.1 scoreless innings over nine appearances he quickly earned a promotion to High-A, the first of what would be three in-season promotions culminating in five appearances with Triple-A Reno.
That regular-season performance was just the tip of the iceberg, though, as he followed it up by thoroughly dominating the AFL.
The 23-year-old worked 18.1 scoreless innings, allowing just six hits and four walks while striking out 30. That should be enough for him to get a long look this spring for an MLB bullpen spot.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
The Atlanta Braves farm system is loaded with high-ceiling pitching prospects, making it relatively easy for someone like Patrick Weigel to go unnoticed.
That won't be the case for much longer, though.
Weigel, 22, was taken in the seventh round of the 2015 draft as something of a project after bouncing around during his collegiate career, making stops at the University of the Pacific, Oxnard College and the University of Houston.
With some projection left in his 6'6" frame and a good fastball, his future hinges on the development of his secondary stuff—a slider-curveball-changeup mix.
That future looks awfully bright after he was nothing short of dominant this past season with Single-A Rome, taking home the organization's Minor League Pitcher of the Year honors for his efforts.
If he can duplicate that success in the upper minors he'll join Sean Newcomb, Kolby Allard, Mike Soroka, Max Fried and Ian Anderson as the cream of the pitching prospect crop in Atlanta.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
A ton of power and a ton of strikeouts.
That pretty well describes two players the Baltimore Orioles stand to lose in free agency—Pedro Alvarez (22 HR, 25.8% K rate) and Mark Trumbo (47 HR, 25.5% K rate).
It's also Adam Brett Walker to a T.
The 25-year-old has slugged 124 home runs in five minor league seasons, including 27 this past season in his first taste of Triple-A action.
However, he also struck out a staggering 202 times for a 38.0 percent strikeout rate, which raises some obvious questions about how he'll handle MLB pitching.
Originally drafted by the Minnesota Twins in the third round of the 2012 draft, Walker bounced from Minnesota to Milwaukee to Baltimore on waivers this winter and he may very well have landed in the perfect place.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
With Anderson Espinoza and Michael Kopech both traded in the past year, there's no runaway top pitching prospect in the Boston Red Sox system.
First-round pick Jason Groome will no doubt claim the top spot on most preseason prospect lists and there's no question the 18-year-old has significant upside.
Keep an eye on right-hander Roniel Raudes, though.
Raudes was signed for a rather modest $250,000 bonus out of Nicaragua in 2014 and absolutely dominated the Dominican Summer League in his pro debut, registering a 63-to-3 strikeout-to-walk ratio over 53.2 innings before making his way stateside.
It's rare that an 18-year-old has such an advanced feel for pitching and it showed against significantly older competition in Single-A. His three-pitch repertoire already grades out as above-average across the board with potential for more.
Groome might be the household name, but Raudes could be the marquee pitching prospect in the system before 2017 is over.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
The Chicago Cubs rolled the dice when they selected Dylan Cease in the sixth round of the 2014 draft and handed him a well-above-slot bonus of $1.5 million.
Cease would have almost certainly gone off the board in the first round if not for an arm injury during his senior season that eventually required Tommy John surgery.
He's come back strong from that surgery, touching 100 with his fastball and consistently working in the mid-90s this past summer.
It's not just his high-octane fastball that makes him such an exciting prospect, though, as he pairs it with a lethal power curve that one club official compared to Dwight Gooden's, per MLB.com.
The Cubs will no doubt continue to be extremely careful with the 20-year-old, who still has just 68.2 professional innings under his belt.
There's little question he has the highest ceiling of any pitching prospect in the Cubs' system. His move to full-season ball will be highly anticipated.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Rebuilding efforts have finally begun for the Chicago White Sox after Chris Sale and Adam Eaton were both shipped out for prospects during the recent winter meetings.
As a result, a youth movement is brewing on the South Side and outfielder Charlie Tilson stands to benefit as much as anyone during the upcoming season.
The trade of Eaton and departure of Austin Jackson in free agency leaves the team with only Melky Cabrera locked into a starting outfield spot.
Tilson, 24, came over from the Cardinals last season in the deadline deal that sent lefty reliever Zach Duke to St. Louis and he has little left to prove in the minors.
With a good hit tool, plus speed and a solid glove it's not out of the question to think he could be the team's starting center fielder and leadoff hitter on Opening Day.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
There's no question that T.J. Friedl was one of the strangest stories of the 2016 season.
After hitting .401/.494/.563 with 21 extra-base hits during his sophomore season at the University of Nevada, Friedl earned a spot on the collegiate national team and he was one of the team's most productive players this past summer.
Everything was lining up for him to be one of the better college bats in the 2017 draft, only to find out he had in fact been eligible for the 2016 draft and was now free to sign with any team as an undrafted free agent.
The 21-year-old wound up joining the Cincinnati Reds for a $735,000 bonus. While he doesn't have the same ceiling as 2016 first-round pick Nick Senzel, he could move just as quickly.
Speed is presently his best weapon, but he has the hit tool and the glove to be an everyday center fielder and a top-of-the-order bat once he reaches the majors.
After crushing rookie league pitching he'll likely jump straight to Single-A and a strong first full season would push him into the top tier of a good Cincinnati farm system.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Despite going No. 42 overall in the 2015 draft, Triston McKenzie received the largest bonus of any high school arm in the class when the Cleveland Indians gave him $2,302,500.
That looks like a wise investment for a pitcher who seems poised to take over as the top arm in the Cleveland system after Justus Sheffield was shipped to the New York Yankees in the Andrew Miller deal.
McKenzie already has 95.1 pro innings under his belt—including six starts with Single-A Lake County at the end of last season—and he won't turn 20 until next August, so he's well ahead of the developmental curve at this point.
His stuff and pitchability also belies his age.
"His delivery is clean and simple and easy to repeat, and it allows the right-hander to throw strikes with all three of his pitches," wrote MLB.com's Prospect Watch.
A 1.62 ERA and a 104-to-22 K/BB ratio over 83.1 innings could earn him a place on some preseason top-100 prospect lists.
From there, he has the potential to emerge as one of the game's elite pitching prospects.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
With veteran Nick Hundley departing in free agency, the Colorado Rockies appear ready to go with a platoon of glove-first backstop Tony Wolters and unproven Tom Murphy behind the plate this coming season.
"Talking to our guys, they are high on Murphy and Wolters," new manager Bud Black told Patrick Saunders of the Denver Post. "High on their makeup, their aptitude, their work ethic, what they believe in, what they need to do to help our pitchers."
Murphy has been a work in progress defensively since he was selected in the third round of the 2012 draft, but he's come far enough that he should stick behind the plate and his offensive production is tough to ignore.
The 25-year-old has received September call-ups each of the past two seasons, posting a combined .949 OPS with three doubles, eight home runs and 22 RBI in 88 plate appearances.
He's not going to keep up that pace over a full season, but if you're looking for a dark-horse NL Rookie of the Year candidate, he might be your guy.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
It's no secret the Detroit Tigers like to target big, hard-throwing high school pitchers early in the draft.
With a sturdy 6'2", 200-pound frame and a mid-90s fastball, Beau Burrows fit the mold and the Detroit Tigers made him the No. 22 overall pick in the 2015 draft.
Despite getting by largely on the strength of his fastball during his time in high school, Burrows already flashes a good power curve and a solid changeup.
"He knows he can't just rear back and throw it by people and so he has learned to mix his speeds better and how to work through challenges," pitching coach Mark Johnson told Peter J. Wallner of MLive.com. "It's been a great learning year for him. He's developed into being a starting pitcher that can mix speeds and that's just going to get better with reps."
The 20-year-old finished the 2016 season strong, posting a 2.19 ERA and 1.19 WHIP over his final eight starts.
He has swing-and-miss stuff but that didn't exactly show up in his 6.2 K/9 rate, so there's work to do in that area.
With another step forward, he could push 2016 first-round pick Matt Manning for top prospect honors in a thin Detroit system.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Franklin Perez showed enough in his pro debut in 2015 to make the jump straight from rookie ball to Single-A Quad Cities in his first full season stateside.
The right-hander signed for a $1 million bonus out of Venezuela as part of the 2014 international free-agent class and he is already a prospect on the rise in a deep Houston Astros system.
Perez can presently touch 95 with his fastball and there is plenty of room for further projection in his 6'3", 197-pound frame.
The 19-year-old pairs that fastball with a terrific curveball and a passable changeup that should give him the three-pitch repertoire to stick as a starter. He'll be brought along slowly, but the Astros could let out a bit more leash in 2017 after he worked just 66.2 innings last year.
With another step forward, Perez would join Francis Martes, David Paulino and Forrest Whitley in the upper tier of Houston pitching prospects.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
A pitcher can tweak his mechanics, add new pitches and refine his command, but he can't learn to throw 102 mph.
Good thing Kansas City Royals right-hander Josh Staumont already knows how.
"There's nobody we have that throws the ball as easy and as hard as he does," Royals assistant general manager J.J. Picollo told Jeffrey Flanagan of MLB.com. "Even when he's throwing 98 it looks like he's just playing catch."
When he's throwing his fastball for strikes and his curveball-changeup combination is flashing plus, it's easy to envision the 22-year-old as a future front-line starter. 
Command remains a major issue—he walked 104 batters in 123.1 innings for 7.6 BB/9 rate—but the Royals have a unique talent on their hands with tremendous upside.
After he posted a 1.64 ERA and a 34-to-8 K/BB ratio over his final four starts in 2016, a breakout season might be waiting in 2017.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
With the worst farm system in baseball, it won't take much for a breakthrough prospect to ascend to the upper tier of the Los Angeles Angels' organization.
One player with the potential to do just that is outfielder Troy Montgomery.
The 22-year-old shared the Ohio State outfield with eventual second-round pick Ronnie Dawson this past spring, with the Angels scooping him up in the sixth round.
He hit .297/.423/.466 with more walks (50) than strikeouts (41) during his junior season with the Buckeyes, flashing a bit more pop with eight home runs after hitting just six in his first two seasons.
With plus speed, a good glove and a strong arm, it's his offensive game that will determine whether he's an everyday player or a fourth outfielder.
A .341/.453/.557 line over 113 plate appearances in rookie ball was a good start, earning him a quick promotion to Single-A in his pro debut.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Los Angeles Dodgers fans are already familiar with the name Yadier Alvarez and now he's ready to announce himself to the rest of the baseball world.
The 20-year-old received a $16 million bonus in 2015 after defecting from Cuba, which came with a matching tax penalty for the free-spending Dodgers.
Why such a lofty asking price? MLB.com explains:
Alvarez is a classic high-risk, high-reward pitching prospect. He has exceptional arm speed that allows him to generate mid-90s fastballs and top out at 100 mph, and there's still plenty of projection remaining in his lanky 6-foot-3 frame. His secondary pitches aren't as consistent, though he does flash a wipeout slider and throws his changeup with deceptive arm speed.
A strong showing in rookie ball to begin his pro career was followed by an eye-opening performance in the Midwest League with Single-A Great Lakes.
In nine starts, Alvarez posted a 2.29 ERA, 1.07 WHIP and a 55-to-11 K/BB ratio over 39.1 innings, easing some of the concerns about his command and how well his secondary stuff would play against better competition.
The sky is the limit for Alvarez and the more his performance matches his tools, the higher he'll climb on prospect ranking lists.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
The emergence of rookie Kyle Barraclough alongside closer A.J. Ramos gave the Miami Marlins an impressive one-two punch at the back of the bullpen last season.
Junichi Tazawa was signed to join them on Thursday, according to Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports, and more outside additions could be coming before the offseason is over.
However, there's also another in-house reliever ready to make an impact in right-hander Drew Steckenrider.
Steckenrider missed the bulk of the 2013 and 2014 seasons after undergoing Tommy John surgery and made the move from starter to reliever upon returning.
That looks like the right decision, as the 25-year-old's first full season in the bullpen was highlighted by a 2.08 ERA, 14 saves and 12.3 K/9 over 40 appearances while he climbed three levels to Triple-A.
His season was capped off by a strong showing in the Arizona Fall League (13.0 IP, 3.46 ERA, 4 BB, 15 K). Armed with an upper 90s fastball and wipeout slider, he should get a chance to compete for a bullpen job this spring.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Isan Diaz turned heads in 2015 when he posted a .360/.436/.640 line that included 25 doubles and 13 home runs over 312 plate appearances in the Pioneer League.
Scouts are often hesitant to put too much stock in a player's rookie league performance, taking a wait-and-see approach as the player gets set to make the jump to full-season ball.
While Diaz, 20, did not duplicate those ridiculous numbers with Single-A Wisconsin, he did prove himself worthy of attention as he posted an .827 OPS with 34 doubles, 20 home runs and 75 RBI.
The Milwaukee Brewers acquired Diaz from the Arizona Diamondbacks last offseason as part of the Jean Segura trade, and he now looks like the second baseman of the future with Orlando Arcia entrenched as the everyday shortstop.
"While he has a ways to go before reaching the major leagues, Diaz could emerge as one of the Brewers' top position prospects with another strong campaign," wrote MLB.com's Prospect Watch.
If his power continues to develop, he could make some serious noise as a bat-first second baseman.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Just how good can Fernando Romero be?
"It's possible Romero would be talked about now as one of the better pitching prospects of the game if he hadn't gotten hurt," wrote MLB.com's Prospect Watch. "But the talented right-hander needed Tommy John surgery after just three starts in 2014, missing the rest of that and the 2015 season."
Finally back in action this past season, Romero didn't take long to shake off the rust as he was dominant over five starts with Single-A Cedar Rapids and even better after making the jump to High-A Fort Myers.
Armed with a mid-90s fastball, a plus slider and a changeup with the potential to be a solid third offering, the 21-year-old has the stuff to be a front-line arm.
The Minnesota Twins already have one fast-rising pitching prospect in Stephen Gonsalves and other quality arms like Tyler Jay, Kohl Stewart and Adalberto Mejia.
Romero has a chance to be better than all of them and after another year removed from arm surgery he could be one of the biggest breakout prospects of 2017.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
An uptick in velocity has taken Thomas Szapucki from mid-level pitching prospect with intriguing projectablity to legitimate top-tier prospect in the New York Mets system.
A fifth-round pick in 2015 whose fastball maxed out in the low 90s in high school, Szapucki touched 94 in his pro debut and was up to 97 this past season.
There's still significant work to be done, though.
"Szapucki's biggest obstacle is his delivery, which isn't the cleanest mechanically and can impact his command and control," wrote MLB.com's Prospect Watch.
His changeup is also well behind his fastball and curveball and if it doesn't develop further his lack of a third offering could land him in the bullpen.
Still, it's tough to ignore that 1.38 ERA or those 86 strikeouts over 52.0 innings of work. If he can even come close to matching his 2016 performance in full-season ball, he'll solidify his place as one of the team's top arms.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Miguel Andujar began the 2016 season as the No. 12-ranked prospect in the New York Yankees system, according to Baseball America.
That was down from No. 8 in 2014 and No. 10 in 2015, though.
Signed to a $750,000 bonus out of the Dominican Republic in 2011—the largest international bonus handed out by the Yankees that summer—Andujar scuffled to a .715 OPS in 2014 and a .651 OPS in 2015.
However, his experience playing against older competition finally started to pay dividends this past season.
Back with High-A Tampa to start the year, Andujar hit .283/.343/.474 with 10 doubles and 10 home runs in 251 plate appearances to earn a midseason promotion to Double-A.
Now the 21-year-old is set to begin his first full season in the upper levels of the minors and a similarly strong start should vault him up leaguewide prospect rankings.
Impressive raw power, an improving all-around approach and the physical tools to be a standout defender all point to an everyday third baseman with impact potential.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Oakland Athletics third baseman Ryon Healy was one of the breakout prospects of 2016.
Healy raked in the upper minors and kept on hitting when he was promoted to the majors, posting an .861 OPS with 20 doubles and 13 home runs in 283 plate appearances.
Prior to his emergence, it looked like one of Matt Chapman or Renato Nunez would be the third baseman of the future in Oakland.
That being said, Nunez already began shifting positions this past season. He saw time at first base for the first time in his career and that could be where he settles in long term.
The 22-year-old had a forgettable season in Triple-A, but he's been one of the stars of the Venezuelan Winter League.
Nunez has hit .315/.396/.592 with six doubles, 10 home runs and 27 RBI in 130 at-bats for Tigres de Aragua and that could serve as a springboard into a big 2017 season.
If nothing else, it's probably fair to assume Yonder Alonso won't stand in his way once he's deemed ready.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Credit the Philadelphia Phillies scouting department for finding Sixto Sanchez, who was signed for a $35,000 bonus out of the Dominican Republic in 2015.
The Phillies brought him stateside this season as a 17-year-old and he was up to the challenge, leading the Gulf Coast League with a 0.50 ERA while posting a stellar 44-to-8 K/BB ratio over 54.0 innings.
An infielder just a few years ago, Sanchez doesn't have much projectability left in his 6'0", 185-pound frame, but it stands to reason that there's still room for significant improvement as he gets more comfortable on the mound.
And despite his somewhat undersized frame, "his strength and athleticism point to a future as a starter," according to MLB.com's Prospect Watch.
With a good feel for his three-pitch mix and impressive early results he'll be one to watch, even if he's still a long way from Philadelphia.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Alen Hanson has seen his prospect status decline in recent years after ranking as one of the league's top 100 prospects in both 2013 (No. 61) and 2014 (No. 76), according to Baseball America.
The 24-year-old is now out of minor league options. While he doesn't have a clear path to everyday at-bats, he could fill a significant role at the MLB level in 2017.
Veteran utility man Sean Rodriguez put together a fantastic season in 2016, posting an .859 OPS with 16 doubles, 18 home runs and 56 RBI in 342 plate appearances while playing everywhere but pitcher and catcher for the Pittsburgh Pirates.
That earned him a two-year, $11.5 million deal from the Atlanta Braves and there's now a void to fill in the super utility role.
Hanson is the front-runner to fill that void. Even with David Freese and Adam Frazier both expected to see time at multiple positions as well, he could play his way into significant at-bats.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
The buzz word for Phil Maton is the "spin rate" on his fastball.
Fox Sports explains:
When the Padres discuss Maton, a phrase that comes into play is “spin rate.” Pitches that spin tighter and faster as they travel to the plate appear faster to hitters and can even provide the illusion that they are rising. The more revolutions the ball makes, the more swinging strikes and fly balls a pitcher can induce. Maton has one of the highest spin rates in the organization.
His fastball might not reach the high 90s like many late-inning relievers, but it plays up and has allowed him to post some impressive numbers since making the move to the bullpen. That transition has also allowed him to scrap his changeup and focus on his two premium offerings.
"He pounds the zone and comes right at guys," Triple-A manager Lance Burkhart told Fox Sports. "He has a good fastball and slider that he can throw for strikes. Because he can throw both for strikes there is enough speed and plane differential that he is going to be very effective."
Despite making just five appearances above the High-A level, the 23-year-old is a strong candidate for an Opening Day bullpen spot with the rebuilding San Diego Padres.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
After a standout career at Samford University, Heath Quinn was one of the top collegiate bats in the 2016 draft.
However, concerns about the level of competition he faced in college and whether he would make enough consistent contact to tap into his power caused him to slip to the third round, where the San Francisco Giants made him the No. 95 overall pick.
That earned him the No. 1 spot when Bleacher Report's Rick Weiner ranked the 10 biggest steals of the draft. Quinn backed that up with a stellar showing over three minor league levels in his pro debut.
A .343/.452/.682 line with 17 doubles, 21 home runs and 77 RBI during his junior season at Samford earned him third-team All-American honors. Quinn could quickly ascend to the top of a relatively thin Giants system if he continues to hit like that as a pro.
He'll likely start the 2017 season at the High-A level and could be the answer for the Giants in left field by the second half of the 2018 campaign.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Taijuan Walker and Jean Segura were the headliners in a five-player trade between the Seattle Mariners and Arizona Diamondbacks earlier this offseason, but keep an eye on outfielder Mitch Haniger, who also joined the Mariners in that deal.
"Haniger could end up being the most important player in that trade," one opposing scout told Ryan Divish of the Seattle Times.
Assuming no other outfield additions arrive—which is a big assumption when you're talking about Mariners GM Jerry Dipoto—Haniger should have a real shot at winning the starting left field job this spring.
The 25-year-old is a .290/.370/.490 career hitter over five minor league seasons, but he had never tallied more than 13 home runs in a year prior to launching 25 in 2016.
That uptick in power is what has taken him from mid-level organizational prospect to potential impact MLB player. If he breaks camp with a starting gig, he'll be a dark horse for AL Rookie of the Year honors.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
A 70-grade fastball that sits at 95 and can touch 101 was enough to put Sandy Alcantara on the prospect radar, but middling secondary stuff and a lack of command kept him from being one of the St. Louis Cardinals' top prospects.
Control remains an issue as he walked batters at a 4.3 BB/9 rate, but he continued to overpower hitters in his full-season debut with 153 strikeouts in 122.1 innings.
The 21-year-old also responded very well to a late-season promotion to High-A Palm Beach, posting a 3.62 ERA, 1.21 WHIP and a 34-to-14 K/BB ratio in 32.1 innings.
There's still room for Alcantara to fill out his 6'4", 170-pound frame, and his changeup and curveball have both improved since he was signed in 2013.
Alcantara may soon be the highest-ceiling arm in the system with Alex Reyes set to lose his prospect eligibility shortly after the start of the 2017 season.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Jesus Sanchez was far enough off the top prospect radar entering the 2016 season that he didn't even appear among the Tampa Bay Rays' top 30 prospect in the Baseball America Prospect Handbook.
It no doubt came as a surprise to more than a few fans then when he checked in as the team's No. 7 prospect when Baseball America released this year's organizational top 10.
"I think his bat gives him a chance to develop into a really good prospect," wrote Hudson Belinsky of Baseball America in a follow-up chat on the aforementioned rankings.
"If Sanchez’s bat plays at a full-season affiliate in 2017, I can see him making a case for top 100 consideration after that, yes. He’ll also have to improve his defense, too. The reports on him are really exciting." 
Those nine walks over 226 plate appearances are a good indication that the 19-year-old's approach at the plate is going to need some refining as he takes on higher-level pitching.
Still, there's a lot to like about a 6'2", 185-pound teenager who has already flashed good in-game power and a strong hit tool against pro competition.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Over the past two seasons, the Texas Rangers have traded away several players that ranked among the top 10 prospects in the organization, per Baseball America:
Those trades, coupled with Nomar Mazara carving out a role with the big league club and Joey Gallo exhausting his rookie eligibility, leave the team without a clear-cut top prospect heading into the 2017 season.
Outfielder Leody Taveras claimed the No. 1 spot in the system from Baseball America and his full-season debut will be watched closely.
With a Sept. 8 birthday, Taveras will play the bulk of the upcoming season at the age of 18. All signs point to him joining the Single-A ranks by midseason if he's not aggressively promoted there to start the year.
The Dominican native landed a $2.1 million bonus as one of the top prospects in the 2015 international class. If he can tack on a bit more muscle and add some over-the-fence pop he'll have the potential for five above-average-to-plus tools.
2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
It takes a lot for a first-base-only player to earn a spot among the league's top prospects.
Case in point, there was only one first baseman—A.J. Reed of the Houston Astros—who checked in among the top 50 prospects in the league at the start of last season, per Baseball America.
Don't be surprised if Rowdy Tellez emerges as one of the rare exceptions.
A 30th-round pick who was handed an $850,000 bonus in 2013, Tellez was an intriguing prep prospect due to his impressive raw power and he's developed into a better all-around hitter than expected.
He slugged 29 doubles and 23 home runs in a full season with Double-A New Hampshire last year, while also ranking third in the Eastern League in walks (63) and backing that with a very manageable 17.9 percent strikeout rate.
The departures of Edwin Encarnacion and Jose Bautista could leave the Blue Jays searching for a power source, and Tellez might be the answer as soon as the second half of the upcoming season.

2016 Stats
    
Player Outlook
Koda Glover is one of just two pitchers from the 2015 draft class to already make his MLB debut, with the other being Chicago White Sox right-hander Carson Fulmer.
Unlike Fulmer, who was taken with the No. 8 overall pick, Glover was not a highly touted prospect and the Washington Nationals took him in the eighth round after a stellar junior season at Oklahoma State.
Glover has the prototypical late-inning arsenal with a mid-90s fastball that he can dial up to 98 and a wipeout slider that serves as his out-pitch.
The 23-year-old has legitimate closer upside and he could find himself in that role sooner than later.
Considering the Nationals have yet to replace Mark Melancon, it's not inconceivable to think Glover could be closing games at some point in 2017.
Veteran Shawn Kelley will likely get the first crack at the job, but Glover is on the short list if he falters.
    
All pro stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs, while collegiate stats come via BaseballCube.com.

The week after baseball’s winter meetings often represents a calm in the offseason. Having engaged in unrelenting trade and free-agent discussions, teams step back and evaluate their roster to date.
But that doesn’t mean we should stop asking questions.
Several of the moves have prompted forward-looking thoughts about the upcoming season. Sure, there’s still work to be done, players to be signed and trades to be worked out.
And, of course, that means these answers can drastically change. But for now, let’s see where baseball stands as the offseason heads toward its latter half.

That we are even asking this question is head-scratching given that the Chicago Cubs just won a world series with power up and down the team’s lineup. Heck, there’s even talk about using slugger Kyle Schwarber as the Cubs' leadoff hitter in 2017.
But with so many power hitters still on the free-agent market, it seems as if the skill is less valued by teams.
Prior to the start of the offseason, teams knew the free-agent class had little to offer in terms of impact players. But the class did have a handful of power hitters, capable of impacting potential teams with the long ball.
Yet, none have been signed.
Jose Bautista, Edwin Encarnacion and Mark Trumbo, the 2016 home run king, all remain unemployed. All three appear to have overestimated their value on the open market.
It’s unclear if teams have gone away from prioritizing power as they construct their lineup. But it’s clear that, while in the 1990s and early 2000s, it was coveted, players need to do more than just hit the long ball, the only skill that the three aforementioned players provide at an elite level.
Instead, teams have looked more toward guys with upside defensively and the ability to get on base. See Dexter Fowler and Adam Eaton (acquired by the Washington Nationals via trade) as examples.
Of course, Bautista, Encarnacion and Trumbo will all be signed but perhaps for much less than had been anticipated.

You’ve probably heard this before: The MLB season is a marathon.
So, think of the winter as the early part of the race, the regular season as the middle, which separates the best runners, and the playoffs as the sprint to the end.
Like any entertaining marathon, MLB teams right now are jockeying for position, trying to eye what moves will best position themselves for the meat of the race. All that naturally begs the question as to whether teams in the NL have caught the Cubs, who are regarded as having the most talented roster in baseball after winning the World Series last season.
The answer so far? No.
It’s important to recognize that this free agency, as has been mentioned in this recurring column many times, is unusually weak. There aren’t many lineup-altering players available. Those teams looking to seek such a player would have to look at the trade market, a task more complicated than it may appear. 
The Nationals are the lone NL squad that has made a significant trade, netting center fielder Adam Eaton, a solid player but one nonetheless that doesn’t have transformational impact. The Dodgers, last season’s other NL division winner, had so many players enter free agency that re-signing them—namely starting pitcher Rich Hill, closer Kenley Jansen and third baseman Justin Turner—became a priority.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network is reporting that the Dodgers are in trade talks with the Minnesota Twins for Brian Dozier. Adding Dozier, who hit 42 homers last season, would make the Dodgers a reasonable threat to unseat the Cubs.

When the San Francisco Giants entered the offseason, they had one goal: acquire a closer.
Signing Mark Melancon accomplished just that and gave the Giants reason to believe they could win their fourth World Series under manager Bruce Bochy. But it has also left those in the Bay Area thinking what could have been.
Might Melancon have continued the team’s even-year magic after San Francisco took home World Series titles in 2010, 2012 and 2014?
By no means does this discredit what the Cubs accomplished. They were, wire to wire, the best team in baseball and seemed to win every critical October game, including Game 4 of the NLDS against San Francisco.
Still, it’s fair to assert that with a closer like Melancon, the Giants, minimally, would have been better positioned to go further into the 2016 playoffs. Certainly, they would have forced a Game 5 in the NLDS had Melancon been present.
A blown save by San Francisco allowed the Cubs to win the series in four games.
The shaky bullpen was even more glaring during the final two months of the regular season when the Giants, MLB leaders in blown saves, ceded the NL West to the Dodgers.
Had San Francisco won the division, they would have been able to set up their rotation for an NLDS matchup against the Washington Nationals—a series they likely would have been favored to win.
But having to play the one-game NL Wild Card, the Giants had to throw ace Madison Bumgarner.
Teams never win in hindsight and the Cubs were, unquestionably, better. Still, replaying the scenarios underscores how critical it was to sign Melancon and the potential effect he can have on the Giants moving forward.

On Thursday, a judge dropped the simple-assault charge against New York Mets closer Jeurys Familia that stemmed from an alleged incident of domestic violence. The alleged incident was also expunged from Familia’s record.
Familia was arrested on Oct. 31.
Still, questions linger as to whether he will be suspended for the start of the 2017 MLB season. The Mets released a statement saying that they are awaiting the outcome of MLB’s investigation into the matter.
Last offseason, closer Aroldis Chapman was alleged to have been involved in a domestic violence incident. Though he wasn’t charged, MLB suspended him for 30 games.
Given that baseball has very publicly made clear its no-tolerance policy as it pertains to domestic violence and that there is precedent under similar circumstances, it’s entirely possible that Familia could be facing the same suspension that Chapman served at the beginning of the 2016 season.

The playoffs never look the same from one year to the next. Sure, there’s some continuity. Expect to see teams like the Boston Red Sox and Cubs play again in October 2017.
But inevitably, every postseason picture changes at least a little bit. Those who emerge as new playoff teams often help themselves the most in the offseason, and no team that watched playoff baseball in 2016 has done more than the Houston Astros this winter.
By adding switch-hitting designated hitter Carlos Beltran and the left-handed bat of Josh Reddick, the team gives itself, top to bottom, one of the AL’s best lineups heading into 2017.
Reddick could fit nicely between right-handed hitting stars Carlos Beltran and Jose Altuve in the Houston lineup. Reddick is a great on-base guy, making him a prototypical bottom-of-the-order AL hitter. He also spent the last four-plus seasons with the Oakland A’s—he was traded to the Dodgers last season—and is very familiar with the AL West.
With these additions, the Astros are a considerable threat to the Rangers, who are eying their third straight division title.

The New York Yankees are rebuilding. They're also trying to win. That's how it works in the Bronx.
Those aren't mutually exclusive goals. Last season, the Yankees sold at the trade deadline and restocked a farm system that Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter subsequently ranked No. 1 in the game. They also stayed in the playoff picture until late September thanks to contributions from youngsters such as catcher and American League Rookie of the Year runner-up Gary Sanchez.
It's possible to shed costly pieces and compete at the same time.
This winter, the Yanks traded veteran backstop Brian McCann to the Houston Astros for prospects. They also handed one year and $13 million to aging slugger Matt Holliday and a whopping five years and $86 million to closer Aroldis Chapman.
Clearly, general manager Brian Cashman is treading the line between a full-blown fire sale and keeping his team competitive. Hardcore fans are surely rejoicing the burgeoning youth movement, but the casual observers who put butts in seats at Yankee Stadium want to watch a winner.
To that end, Cashman has work left to do. Specifically, he has to improve a starting rotation that's littered with question marks and could be the club's undoing.
We'll explore how he can accomplish that in a moment. First, let's drill a little deeper on where the Yankees stand.
New York is in decent shape on offense, with seasoned bats such as Jacoby Ellsbury, Chase Headley and Brett Gardner joining the nascent brigade led by Sanchez, masher Aaron Judge and top-rated outfield prospect Clint Frazier.
The bullpen is robust behind the dual threats of Chapman and super-setup man Dellin Betances.
The starting five, meanwhile, is a concerning mishmash.
Ace Masahiro Tanaka threw 199.2 innings in 2016, his highest total since coming over from Japan three seasons ago, and posted a 3.07 ERA.

Behind him, there's hard-throwing right-hander Michael Pineda, who has shown flashes of brilliance but posted a 4.82 ERA in 2016, and 36-year-old southpaw CC Sabathia.
After that, the Yankees are counting on some combination of Luis Severino, Bryan Mitchell, Luis Cessa, Chad Green and Adam Warren. All except Mitchell owned ERAs north of 4.00 last season, and Green has a grand total of eight big league starts under his belt.
That's not a disaster if everything breaks right, but it's uncertainty on stilts.
So what are New York's options? The club could mortgage the farm and go after a top-tier trade candidate such as the Tampa Bay Rays' Chris Archer or the Chicago White Sox's Jose Quintana.
The Yankees, however, didn't make a serious play for White Sox ace Chris Sale, who wound up with the archrival Boston Red Sox. It's unlikely New York will suddenly become a big-time buyer.
There are lesser trade targets. The Kansas City Royals may be looking to shed payroll with multiple key pieces due to hit free agency next offseason.
Mercurial right-hander Yordano Ventura is Kansas City's flashiest pitching piece, but southpaw Danny Duffy is an interesting, under-the-radar possibility.
The 27-year-old went 12-3 with a 3.51 ERA in 179.2 innings last season with 188 strikeouts next to 42 walks.

He has a final year of arbitration remaining before he tastes the market, which means he doesn't necessarily fit with a long-term vision. It also means he won't cost a massive haul in prospects.
Duffy is a fly-ball pitcher, which could hurt him in the home run-happy confines at 1 East 161st Street. He'd slot in nicely behind Sabathia, however, and give New York another proven mid-rotation arm.
Turning to the free-agent stew, there's meat to be picked from the bones.
"I think it's less likely that we wind up with a starter," Cashman said of the free-agent options, per the Associated Press (h/t ESPN.com). "It's a tough market to be finding one in it."
Tough, but not impossible.
Right-hander Jason Hammel was a workmanlike contributor for the Chicago Cubs rotation with a 3.83 ERA in 166.2 innings last season.
The Yanks were "sniffing around" Hammel in November, per the New York Post's George A. King III, and he's unsigned as of this writing.
Another name that could pique their olfactory response is Ivan Nova. New York traded Nova and his 4.90 ERA to the Pittsburgh Pirates at the deadline last season.

He excelled with the Bucs to the tune of a 3.06 ERA in 11 starts. The 29-year-old Dominican Republic native was stellar in stretches after making his MLB debut with the Yankees in 2010 and could be a bounce-back candidate.
Speaking of which, here's one more option: Doug Fister.
Yes, Fister put up a career-worst 4.64 ERA last season and will turn 33 in February. As CBSSports.com's Mike Axisa put it, "The trend is not pretty."
Fister, however, has been a ground-ball pitcher throughout his career. He was a top-10 Cy Young Award finisher with the Washington Nationals in 2014. He could be had on a short-term, show-me contract that won't bust the bank.
None of these names will make the Yankees instant World Series favorites. Some may argue they'd be better off cashing in a gaggle of minor league chips for an Archer or a Quintana, or standing pat.
As Cashman threads the needle between retooling and relevance, however, he'd be wise to add some impact depth to his stable of arms.
He has a mandate to play the kids and grow the farm. He also has to try to win.
That's how it works in the Bronx. And this is how it goes when you're chasing starting pitching in the thin, cold winter of 2016.

When Mike Dunn gets $19 million from the Colorado Rockies, it tells you it's always great to be a left-handed reliever.
It also tells you Ian Desmond was right.
When the Rockies made Desmond's five-year, $70 million deal official this week, Colorado's new first baseman (or will he be an outfielder?) spoke of joining a team on the rise.
"They're close," Desmond told reporters, including Thomas Harding of MLB.com. "That's an industry-wide consensus. Ownership and management are committed to turning that corner. I'm right there with them on board."
I'm not sure I'd yet call it a consensus, but there is a growing feeling the Rockies are getting better. They haven't had a winning season since 2010, but even as they were losing 87 games in 2016, they won praise for their young talent, both on the big league club and in the system.
Already this winter, they're winning praise again.
"They're my sleeper team for this year," one National League scout said this week.
It's hard to consider the Rockies more than just a sleeper, given the presence of the high-spending Los Angeles Dodgers and San Francisco Giants in their division. With all three teams needing back-end bullpen help this winter, the Giants spent $62 million over four years on Mark Melancon (a Colorado native), and the Dodgers topped that by spending $80 million over five years on Kenley Jansen.
Dunn isn't Melancon, and he isn't Jansen. He has four saves in eight major league seasons. Jansen had three saves in the 2016 postseason alone.
But spending what they did on Dunn (the $19 million is over three years) continues a winter trend for the Rockies. Instead of looking like a team trying to find its way, Colorado now looks like one pushing to win.

Signing Desmond to the second-biggest free-agent contract in franchise history (behind Mike Hampton's $121 million in 2000) was part of that. But so were the other moves the Rockies have tried to make, and the ones they still could pursue.
While the Rockies signed Desmond as a first baseman, his experience playing the outfield last season with the Texas Rangers opens the possibility the Rockies could sign someone else to play first—Mark Trumbo? Edwin Encarnacion?—and trade one of their outfielders.
Roch Kubatko of MASNSports.com reported the Rockies wanted Kevin Gausman from the Baltimore Orioles as part of a deal for either Charlie Blackmon or Carlos Gonzalez. Kubatko wrote the Orioles "aren't trading Kevin Gausman," which is no doubt true.
The bigger point, at least from the Rockies' perspective, is that general manager Jeff Bridich is thinking big when he looks for pitching help. As Yahoo's Jeff Passan tweeted during the winter meetings, the Rockies would like to trade for "a front-of-rotation-type pitcher."
The Rockies don't have one of those in their current rotation. They do have promising 25-year-old right-hander Jon Gray in the big leagues and equally promising 23-year-old right-hander Jeff Hoffman nearly ready in the minors. Hoffman was one of three prospects the Rockies got from the Toronto Blue Jays in the 2015 Troy Tulowitzki trade.

Trading Tulowitzki was a big move for the Rockies, one ownership had previously resisted. It turned the team and the clubhouse over to the next generation, a group that includes star third baseman Nolan Arenado and shortstop Trevor Story, who was a strong Rookie of the Year candidate before a thumb injury ended his season in July.
With Arenado, Story, National League batting champion DJ LeMahieu and outfielder David Dahl, there was a strong sense in the Rockies clubhouse that they are a team on the rise. Scouts who followed the Rockies said the same thing and cited more young players the club has coming in the minor leagues.
They'll go into 2017 with Bud Black as the new manager, which figures to be a positive not because Walt Weiss was bad (he wasn't), but because Weiss and Bridich admittedly weren't seeing eye to eye.
The challenges remain, from the payroll that will still trail the Dodgers and Giants by millions to the altitude that makes pitching in Colorado difficult and can make hitters believe they need a different approach on the road from the one they use at home.
It's not impossible for the Rockies to win. They went all the way to the World Series in 2007.
Ten years later, they won't be the preseason favorites to get there again. But at the very least, they seem headed in the right direction.
     
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

Any thoughts the Philadelphia Phillies had about trading Odubel Herrera have likely gone away after the All-Star center fielder signed a contract extension with the team.
The Phillies announced the five-year extension Thursday.
Matt Gelb of the Philadelphia Inquirer reported the contract will pay Herrera $30.5 million in guarantees and includes option years for 2022 and 2023.
There had been some speculation about the Phillies exploring trade options for Herrera this offseason. T.R. Sullivan of MLB.com reported during the winter meetings the team "might be willing" to deal the 24-year-old. 
Herrera has been a pleasant surprise in two seasons with the Phillies. He was a Rule 5 draft pick in December 2014 after the Texas Rangers kept him off their 40-man roster because they didn't have a spot available for him. 
With the Phillies embracing a full-scale rebuild, Herrera made the team's Opening Day roster. He put together a solid debut season with a .297/.344/.418 slash line in 147 games. 
Herrera was even better in 2016, posting a .286/.361/.420 slash line with 15 home runs, 25 stolen bases and 4.2 wins above replacement, per Baseball-Reference.com. He was named to the National League All-Star team for his efforts. 
MLB.com's Oliver Macklin noted Herrera's eight wins above replacement in his first two seasons with the Phillies is the second-best mark in team history, trailing only Dick Allen's 8.8 in 1964-65.
The Phillies' commitment to Herrera is the latest sign this franchise is heading in the right direction. It's going to take more time for the farm system, which MLB.com ranked seventh coming into 2016, to release all of its treasures like shortstop J.P. Crawford and outfielder Nick Williams. 
Herrera is a key piece of the foundation in Philadelphia and will be part of the next great wave of Phillies baseball after signing a long-term extension with the franchise.

The St. Louis Cardinals are reportedly willing to listen to trade offers for first baseman Matt Adams as the team looks to clear an infield logjam this offseason.
Continue for updates.
Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported Thursday that Adams is a "change of scenery candidate" with St. Louis likely turning to Matt Carpenter at first.
Adams is coming off an up-and-down season with the Cardinals during which he hit .249 with 16 home runs across 118 games. It marked the third time in the last four years he tallied at least 15 homers, but his career on-base percentage stands at a mundane .314.
Injuries are one thing that have held back the 28-year-old infielder at times. He's played more than 120 games just once in four full seasons at the big-league level. The most serious issue was a torn quadriceps muscle that limited him to 60 appearances in 2015.
Andy Call of MLB.com passed along comments from Adams about being forced to accept any level of involvement after his latest injury comeback, this time a shoulder issue, back in September.
"Whatever my role is during the last part of the season, I'm willing to accept it," Adams said. "Whatever will help this team win. If my role is to come off the bench and pinch-hit, I'm all for it. I've been good in the past with that."
The question marks about his ability to make a consistent impact make him an obvious trade candidate as the Cardinals look to upgrade elsewhere.
They currently have seven infielders to fill four starting spots, with Adams, Greg Garcia and Jhonny Peralta ticketed for bench roles based on the current roster. It would make sense to seek a move that could help upgrade the bullpen or bring in a reserve outfielder.
Adams is a worthwhile buy-low target, assuming the Cardinals' asking price is reasonable, for a team needing an upgrade at either first base or designated hitter. Moving to the American League to fill the latter role would be ideal given his injury history.
The Pennsylvania native possesses enough pop to provide between 20 and 25 home runs if he can stay healthy for 150 or more games. But that would require a starting role, something he's not likely to hold if he sticks with the Cardinals in 2016.
                                               


Torii Hunter Jr. will be following in his father's footsteps as a professional baseball player with the Los Angeles Angels. 
Hunter announced his intention to pursue an MLB career instead of returning to Notre Dame's football team for a fifth year:
Hunter's father, Torii, enjoyed a long and successful MLB career. In 19 seasons with the Angels, Minnesota Twins and Detroit Tigers, he won nine Gold Glove awards, played in five All-Star Games and captured two Silver Slugger awards. 
The Angels drafted Hunter in the 23rd round of June's draft. Los Angeles manager Mike Scioscia believes in Hunter's athletic talents helping him to play baseball. 
"I'm excited," Scioscia said, per MLB.com's Alden Gonzalez. "This kid's a great kid; he's a great athlete. As good a football player as he is, I know he loves baseball. Hopefully he'll get that chance."
Love thee! 🍀🍀🍀 s://t.co/aBOBPPHdIy
Hunter eventually signed with the Angels on June 29 but opted to keep his football career at Notre Dame going. As a redshirt senior in 2016, he had his most productive season with 38 receptions, 521 yards and three touchdowns. 
Hunter was previously drafted by the Tigers in the 36th round coming out of high school in 2013, when his father was playing for the team. He did play baseball part time at Notre Dame in 2015 and 2016. 
Odds are against Hunter turning into a big leaguer as a 23rd-round pick who hasn't played baseball full time since high school, but his athleticism and bloodlines certainly make him capable of overcoming those hurdles in his way. 
 