

It was more of the same from the Los Angeles Dodgers as they continued their residence at the No. 1 spot in our weekly power rankings, but for the first time in weeks, we have a new No. 2 team.
The Houston Astros have gone 5-12 in their last 17 games and the wide gap they opened alongside the Dodgers as the league's top-tier teams closed in the process.
Meanwhile, there are also two newcomers to the top 10 as the St. Louis Cardinals and Los Angeles Angels have been on a roll of late. 
For now, remember these rankings are fluid and that teams rise and fall based on where they were ranked the previous week. If a team keeps winning, it will keep climbing—it's as simple as that.
Here's an updated look at where all 30 teams stand:
        
Biggest Risers

St. Louis Cardinals (Up 9 Spots)
Just 10 days ago, the St. Louis Cardinals were 4.5 games behind the first place Chicago Cubs and tied for third in the NL Central standings.
One stellar eight-game winning streak later and things look a bit different.
After sweeping a four-game series from the Kansas City Royals and taking two of three from the Atlanta Braves last week, the Cardinals are now just one game back with momentum on their side.
The bullpen has really rounded into form of late thanks in part to the return of lefty Zach Duke and continued dominance from Trevor Rosenthal in the closer's role.
The starting rotation has been a strength all season and continues to pitch well, while the offense remains a revolving door of unexpected contributors currently being led by unheralded prospect Paul DeJong.
Los Angeles Dodgers slugger Cody Bellinger figures to run away with NL Rookie of the Year honors, but DeJong has quietly posted a .904 OPS with 16 doubles, 18 home runs and 42 RBI in 261 plate appearances and could see his fair share of second-place votes.
His production out of the No. 3 spot in the lineup has given the team a huge shot in the arm and really sparked the offense as a whole.
Of course, the real MVP last week was the rally cat.
          
Minnesota Twins (Up 9 Spots)
A 1-6 stretch of games leading up to the trade deadline convinced the Minnesota Twins to sell off All-Star closer Brandon Kintzler and recently acquired starter Jaime Garcia.
Now a 9-4 start to August has them looking like contenders once again.
A four-game sweep of the Milwaukee Brewers and a weekend series win against the Detroit Tigers leaves them 4.5 games behind the Cleveland Indians in the AL Central and just a half-game out for the No. 2 wild-card spot.
The offense has produced an .800 OPS and is averaging 5.7 runs per game in August, led by Eddie Rosario (1.143 OPS, 5 HR, 12 RBI) and Brian Dozier (1.111 OPS, 6 HR, 13 RBI).
That's helped offset a shaky starting rotation that remains the team's biggest question mark in their push to land a playoff berth. The young duo of Jose Berrios and Adalberto Mejia, in particular, has struggled.
With that in mind, this current hot streak might not be sustainable, but it's still enough to send them shooting up the rankings for the time being.
The upcoming week won't be an easy one as they welcome the Indians and Arizona Diamondbacks to Target Field.
      
Los Angeles Angels (Up 6 Spots)
Could we finally see Mike Trout playing in October again this year?
The Los Angeles Angels are currently riding a six-game winning streak and have gone 12-4 in their last 16 games to climb into the second AL wild card spot.
A healthy Tyler Skaggs has given the rotation a boost and surprise rookie standout Parker Bridwell (11 GS, 7-1, 2.88 ERA, 1.17 WHIP) has been huge in helping solidify a banged up starting staff.
The return of Cam Bedrosian has also provided an in-house replacement for struggling closer Bud Norris.
Meanwhile, Trout has been raking this month (1.270 OPS, 4 HR, 10 RBI) and he's finally getting some help from the rest of the lineup.
The Angels are averaging 5.3 runs per game and hitting .264 with a .751 OPS in 13 August games.
They'll head east this coming week to take on the Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles as they look to keep things rolling.
       
Biggest Fallers

Seattle Mariners (Down 4 Spots)
The Seattle Mariners were two games over .500 and just 1.5 games back in the AL wild-card standings on Aug. 1.
While they're still just two games back, they're trending in the wrong direction at 4-7 with a minus-15 run differential in their last 11 games.
And now they'll be without ace James Paxton for the foreseeable future after he was placed on the 10-day disabled list with a pectoral strain.
"Obviously it's disheartening news, no doubt," manager Scott Servais told reporters. "It's been a crazy season, really it has been, with all of the injuries. To put ourselves in the position we are now, a lot of it has to do with James Paxton. He's been really, really good, but we've got to find a way to keep it rolling here."
With Felix Hernandez, Hisashi Iwakuma and Drew Smyly already on the DL, that Mariners are left with a rotation of Yovani Gallardo, Erasmo Ramirez, Ariel Miranda, Marco Gonzales and a yet-to-be determined fifth starter for Tuesday's game.
Not exactly a juggernaut of a rotation.
A pair of AL East foes in the Orioles and Tampa Bay Rays await this coming week.
        
Tampa Bay Rays (Down 4 Spots)
The Tampa Bay Rays began the month of August by taking three of four from the Houston Astros and pulling within a half-game of the No. 2 AL wild-card spot.
Since then, they've gone 2-7 with a minus-18 run differential, scoring just 11 runs on offense during that nine-game span.
"What a putrid performance by the Rays," wrote Martin Fennelly of the Tampa Bay Times. "They departed the 2-7 Homestand of Shame for Toronto on Sunday night. They had their offense in a carry-on container, it being less than 3.4 fluid ounces."
With no regular hitting over .300 or sporting an OPS over .800 in the month of August, the lineup continues to undermine one of the better starting rotations in the American League.
Can they right the ship and climb back into the AL wild card hunt before it's too late?
         
MVPs of the Week
AL MVP: Chris Sale, Boston Red Sox

Stats: 2 GS, W, ND, 15.0 IP, 6 H, 1 ER, 3 BB, 25 K
AL Cy Young front-runner Chris Sale turned in two more terrific starts last week for the Red Sox as he continues to be nothing short of dominant in his first season in Boston.
The left-hander added 25 more strikeouts to his MLB-leading total of 241 and he's on pace to become the first AL pitcher to eclipse the 300-strikeout mark since fellow Red Sox standout Pedro Martinez did it in 1999.
After allowing four hits and one run with 12 strikeouts in seven innings against the rival Yankees in a no-decision on Sunday, Sale now sports a 1.18 ERA over 76.1 career innings against the archrivals.
If he continues to dominate down the stretch, the conversation might shift from Cy Young to a potential AL MVP run before too long. 
"As dominant as he's been, with the exception of an outing or two, we're talking about a difference-maker in the standings, in the feel of the team," manager John Farrell told Scott Lauber of ESPN.com. "What he means to our team, yeah, he should be in that conversation."
       
NL MVP: Giancarlo Stanton, Miami Marlins

Stats: 9-for-27, 1 2B, 6 HR, 11 RBI, 8 R
You can't help but feel bad for opposing pitchers when Giancarlo Stanton is locked in at the plate.
The 27-year-old has gone deep four games in a row and nine times this month, and his opposite-field shot on Sunday was his 42nd of the season, tying Gary Sheffield for the single-season franchise record.
"I really enjoyed watching him play as a kid," Stanton told reporters. "Definitely good company to be in. It's not something I'll fully appreciate until the year is over, but it's a cool thing to have under my belt, and I've got time to get more."
Sunday's long ball was also No. 250 of his career, tying Frank Robinson (27 years, 278 days) as the 10th-youngest player to reach that milestone, per Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN).
With 46 games left on the schedule, Stanton is currently on pace for 59 homers.
         
Stats of the Week
Let's dive into some of the better nuggets from around the league.
We'll start with a surprising note following the conclusion of last night's Red Sox vs. Yankees series.
Andrew Benintendi has 9 RBI this series; the most by a Red Sox player at Yankee Stadium in a 3-game series since RBI became official in 1920 https://t.co/sSQvxUN106
Benintendi has been largely overshadowed by Aaron Judge this season, but he entered the year as the AL Rookie of the Year front-runner for a reason.
The 23-year-old is hitting .279/.360/.446 with 16 home runs, 66 RBI and 14 stolen bases. With Judge struggling mightily in the second half, the gap for top AL rookie honors is closing quickly.
Speaking of young stars, Mike Trout turned 26 on Monday and celebrated with his 1,000th career hit. He's just the fourth player in MLB history to tally 1,000 hits, 500 runs and 500 walks prior to their age-26 season, joining a trio of all-time greats in Mel Ott, Jimmie Foxx and Mickey Mantle.
Not to be outdone, Bryce Harper also hit his 150th career homer on Monday. He's the 14th player to reach that total before his 25th birthday, joining Albert Pujols and Giancarlo Stanton as the only active players to accomplish that feat.
And we'll finish up with our obligatory weekly nod to how ridiculously good the Dodgers are this season.
The @Dodgers now lead the NL West by 18 games. That's the largest lead they've had (division or league) in franchise history. https://t.co/0rCUGaCORF
That's a 134-year history, folks.
        
Must-See Upcoming Matchup

New York Yankees vs. Boston Red Sox (Friday-Sunday)
Who's ready for Round 2?
After an exciting three-game series in the Bronx culminated with an extra-innings victory by the Red Sox on Sunday night, these two rivals will take things to Fenway Park for another three-game set this weekend.
The Red Sox lead has now swelled to 5.5 games in the AL East standings, but the Yankees still lead the season series 7-5.
It will be Drew Pomeranz, Chris Sale and Doug Fister taking the ball for Boston and the Yankees counter with Jordan Montgomery on Friday and Sonny Gray on Sunday.
Saturday's starter has yet to be determined. Luis Cessa will take the ball on Monday in place of the injured Masahiro Tanaka and if he pitches well that would be his spot in the rotation.
At any rate, it should be another exciting weekend of baseball.
There was a playoff-type atmosphere at Yankee Stadium on Sunday night and it's clear there's been new life breathed into this rivalry here in 2017.
               
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted and accurate through Sunday.
Looking for someone to yell at about where your favorite team was slotted in the latest rankings? I'll meet you in the comments section.

If they collect 34 more wins, the Los Angeles Dodgers will set a new mark for regular-season excellence.
A mighty feat, indeed. But also a fragile one that would come with an obligatory "Yeah, but..." if they again fail to win the World Series.
That quest, which has been ongoing since 1988 and has cost the Dodgers over $1 billion in just the last four seasons, hinges on the real storyline for the remainder of their season: The return and subsequent performance of Clayton Kershaw.
For the second time in as many years, the ace left-hander is on the disabled list with a back injury. It's not as bad as the disc herniation that sidelined him last year, however, and his recovery is going well. Having already thrown two bullpen sessions, he's ready for a simulated game and then a rehab assignment.
"I think we've been pretty cautious," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said, according to Joshua Thornton of MLB.com. "Which is most important. … We're in a good place with Clayton. So hopefully this next marker we pass and we can assess going forward."
Kershaw could be back before September, but Roberts is right to indicate there's no hurry.

There would be a sense of urgency for Kershaw to hurry back if the Dodgers were fighting for their postseason lives, but they're too busy making other teams' seasons miserable.
With a record of 83-34, they've won games at a .709 clip that puts them on track for 115 wins. And even noting this much isn't doing them proper justice. Ever since super-rookie Cody Bellinger arrived April 25, the Dodgers have said "LOL" to losing and gone 74-23.
If they stay on that pace over their final 45 games, they'll fly at ludicrous speed past the 1906 Chicago Cubs' and 2001 Seattle Mariners' shared record of 116 wins.
Even Kershaw's absence isn't proving to be a deal-breaker. Including his injury-shortened start July 23, the Dodgers are 15-3 without him. Their deadline-day acquisition of fellow ace Yu Darvish has helped. So has continued hot hitting from Bellinger, who has eight homers during Kershaw's absence.
But in general, the Dodgers continue to win because they're a superteam unlike any other in Major League Baseball. It shows in their run differential, which puts even the Houston Astros to shame:
But while all this makes for a cool story now, the Dodgers' season could devolve into a horror story come October.
Grim tales of historic regular seasons giving way to tragic postseasons aren't plentiful, but the ones that do exist are known far and wide. The 1906 Cubs and 2001 Mariners both failed to win the World Series. The undefeated 2007 New England Patriots walked away without a Super Bowl. The 73-win Golden State Warriors of 2015-16 choked away an NBA Finals victory.
The sheer unpredictability of the MLB postseason makes it easy to imagine the 2017 Dodgers joining this not-so-prestigious club. In fact, their torrid regular-season pace doesn't shield them from being decidedly more likely to fail than they are to succeed.
At Baseball Prospectus, the Dodgers have a 25.1 percent chance of winning the World Series. At FanGraphs, they have a 19.6 percent chance. These are outstanding odds, relatively speaking, but they can also be translated to mean the Dodgers have a 75 to 80 percent chance of falling short.
Even a team this great needs to worry about maximizing its chances of winning it all. That's where Kershaw must come into play.

The Dodgers bolstered a rotation that already had MLB's best ERA when they added Darvish, but the poorly kept secret about their starters is they don't work much. Before Darvish arrived, Kershaw was the only one averaging over six innings per start.
There is a method to this, as Roberts explained to Bill Plunkett of the Orange County Register: "If we have an eight-man 'pen and guys are rested, to have a guy go five innings it could potentially save bullets for the back end."
Not a bad idea, given that the Dodgers bullpen ranks first in the National League in ERA. Yet an issue they've become all too familiar with still lingers: There's soft tissue underneath the ironclad Kenley Jansen.
Jansen has been characteristically untouchable. But unless top prospect Walker Buehler is the man for the job, the Dodgers don't have a guy who can be for Jansen what Andrew Miller was for Cody Allen on the Cleveland Indians last October. And ESPN's Buster Olney is correct in pointing out a lack of a shutdown lefty specialist who could silence heavies like Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy and Anthony Rizzo.
In short: This is a team that will need its ace much more in October than it currently needs him in the regular season.
The catch, of course, is that Kershaw himself must fit the bill for a change.
There's no doubting his regular-season track record. He's won three Cy Youngs, an MVP, four ERA titles and three strikeout titles. And although he began 2017 looking more human than normal, he reverted to his usual self with a 1.84 ERA in 14 starts preceding his injury. His overall 2.04 ERA leads MLB.
But October is undeniably Kershaw's nemesis. If his 4.55 ERA in 18 career postseason appearances is the injury, the insult is his being the losing pitcher in three of the Dodgers' last four exits from the postseason. 
Mind you, there have been bright spots here and there. But the dark spots are too big a stain on his legacy to be ignored. His critics aren't shy about pointing this out, and the man himself knows those are the breaks.
"I don't know how many starts I've had in the regular season, but hundreds, and you don't have that opportunity in the postseason," Kershaw said last October, per Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times. "So you've got to make it count. And the bad ones stand out more, for sure."
Although starters have ceded some of the spotlight to relievers in recent postseasons, Madison Bumgarner, Corey Kluber and Jon Lester can vouch that a hot ace can still make a huge difference in October. Kershaw has the goods to be that guy. The Dodgers just need him to finally become that guy.
If he can, slaying his own demons will go a long way toward helping the Dodgers slay theirs, and naysayers of both will have nothing left to say nay about.
If he can't, the large number the Dodgers will inevitably put in the win column could turn into a consolation prize of little comfort.
             
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and ESPN. Payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.


Chirp, chirp, true story: As Minnesota Twins slugger Miguel Sano arrived at Target Field one day earlier this season, he spotted a bird in the grass.
The bird seemed a little weak. Slow. Sano whistled softly, and wouldn't you know it, the bird ambled toward him.
So the big third baseman carefully scooped it up with his hands and brought it into the clubhouse "to see if we could do something about it," he explains. On this journey of mercy, though, he made sure to detour near hitting coach James Rowson, who has a touch of ornithophobia.
Rowson took off as if in a Bugs Bunny cartoon. The players who were in the area are still howling over that one.
"I ran faster than I've run since high school," Rowson says, two months now being a safe distance between him and the rescue (the bird was fine, and released). "I've got a little thing where I have a fear of flying things."
Minnesota's bird-whisperer and middle-of-the-order bopper, Sano specializes in flying things. He's smashed 25 home runs this year while gaining altitude as one of baseball's breakout stars. Last month he finished second to the New York Yankees' Aaron Judge in his first Home Run Derby.
But the very best thing this summer is found in Sano's own nest, where bright smiles have replaced anguish and tears, where son Dylan Miguel, just 10 months old, is living proof of the gifts each new sunrise can deliver.
You see, it was bad enough in the spring of 2014 when Sano's elbow popped as he was throwing from third base, making him the rare position player to lose a season to Tommy John ligament replacement surgery. But early that December his first child, Angelica, died of a heart defect one week after her birth in the Dominican Republic.
"He's been through a lot in the last few years," says Mike Radcliff, Minnesota's vice president of player personnel. Nobody knows the depths of that statement more than Sano and the Twins, who signed him as an amateur free agent in 2009 following an exhaustive MLB investigation into Sano's age that subjected him to DNA testing, bone-density testing and was chronicled in the film Ballplayer: Pelotero. Amateur players in Latin American countries must wait until they are 16 to sign professionally in the United States, and there were early charges that he was underage.

Sano emerged from abject poverty that was shocking even by Dominican standards. He and his family were living in a graffiti-covered shack with rotting mattresses when he signed a $3.15 million deal with the Twins. The investigation and controversy cost him what many estimated was an additional $2 million.
He debuted in the majors at 22 in 2015 and crushed 18 home runs with 52 RBI in just 80 games. But his production plummeted in 2016, his OPS dropping to .781 from .916 for several reasons, among them, as manager Paul Molitor says, maybe there was a part of him who listened to people "who maybe gave him a little bit of a false impression as to how big he was in relation to the game."
This season, "there's been a natural progression, and he's starting to see it, feel it," Radcliff says. "The best example is David Ortiz. He grew from, I don't want to say a clown, but a fun-loving guy to feeling how important it all is and the impact he can have not just in the clubhouse but on a team, in a community and, jeez, he leaves the game as an icon in one of the greatest sports cities in the world.
"I'm not going to say Miguel will do that. But he has a chance to have that kind of arc in his career."
Big dreams begin with small steps. But there are no clear instructions for when those dreams and steps collide hard with tragedy. When Sano and his wife, Daniela, were told their daughter had died, the scout who signed him for the Twins was with them.
Fred Guerrero is the son of the late, legendary Dominican Republic scout Epy Guerrero, who, during his career, signed more than 50 major leaguers, including Cesar Cedeno (Houston Astros), Carlos Delgado and Tony Fernandez (Toronto Blue Jays), Damaso Garcia (New York Yankees) and Alcides Escobar (Milwaukee Brewers). Fred and his wife, Anny, had lost a daughter the year before, during a C-section, and would lose another daughter in 2015.
Grief cut though on so many levels. Sano and his family were devastated. The dull-edged heartache within Fred and Anny stirred all over again. Baseball is a game, sure. But it doesn't shield those within from the miseries of life that torment so many with flat-out unanswerable questions. Like, how do you even go on from tragedy? How do you make it through today? And, then, tomorrow?
Speaking from personal experience, and touching on their shared faith, Guerrero told Sano to trust in God. That he had to accept what happened, no matter how horrible. And while he talked with Miguel over the next many months, Anny talked with Daniela.
"It took him time, but he's a young, tough kid," Guerrero says, speaking via cellphone after a showcase event for amateur players in Aruba. "He knows he battles for his family. They all count on him. He basically goes out to play for them."

In addition to his wife and son, Sano has 12 brothers and sisters, his mother, his stepfather and his father. That's a lot on one pair of shoulders, even if those shoulders are atop a 6'4", 262-pound frame. He started playing baseball at 10, figured out he was good enough to have a shot as a pro at 12 and has lived on the diamond ever since. So he is accustomed to the battles. But losing Angelica, it was unimaginable.
"It's the biggest struggle I've gone through," Sano says quietly during a lengthy conversation with B/R. "But it happened. I think about it all the time. Hopefully, it doesn't ever happen to me again. It's part of who I am, and I just live with it."
He still talks to Guerrero at least every other day. Sometimes more. They check in, discuss their families, the challenges of the day or week, and then they go to back to work, Guerrero hunting players, Sano hunting fastballs.
"You know, it's tough for everyone," Sano says. "If you lost a baby, you think about that the whole year."
He pauses, choosing his words carefully. He regularly attended English classes coming up through the Twins' minor league system and is proud of his progress. When we talked at the All-Star Game in Miami, we spoke in English. In Los Angeles a couple of weeks later, he preferred to use the translator the Twins employ and conduct his part of the interview in Spanish. Then, we finished in English again.
Sano's search for a verbal comfort zone isn't all that surprising. So much comes at these young, Latin American players so fast, and from so many angles. Suddenly by themselves in a foreign country, the culture shock alone can be overwhelming. Then you begin layering over that with everything else that Sano has battled through, and you can see. It is complicated.
He told USA Today's Jorge Ortiz this spring that, initially, Angelica's passing did more than make him ponder quitting baseball. It drove him to thoughts of committing suicide.
"I saw that interview," Guerrero says. "I know there are a lot of thoughts that came through his mind. We never talked about him thinking about committing suicide."
Today, a large tattoo on his right forearm depicts his beloved daughter, and Sano deflects questions regarding any suicidal thoughts.
"I don't like talking about it because of how personal it is," Sano says. "I talked to Fred about it, and his experiences helped me get through it and helped me to get stronger."
You could tell, says Rob Antony, longtime Twins vice president and assistant GM. Even after Sano debuted on July 2, 2015, swinging as if he was making up for lost time, you could tell.
He was hitting .455 by the end of his seventh game. Popped four homers by the end of his first month. He was settling in, and on his way. But tucked within were consistent moments of sorrow and confusion.
"There were times he would get fairly emotional. He's talked about it a lot, so no doubt it's never far from his mind," Antony says.
"I have no doubt that it weighed on him heavily."

Recently traded closer Brandon Kintzler signed with the Twins before the 2016 season following six years with the Milwaukee Brewers. He was with the Brewers in July 2014 when the club learned that shortstop Jean Segura's nine-month-old son, Janniel, died at home in the Dominican Republic.
"You see it happen to a grown man like that, and you realize that baseball really means nothing," says Kintzler, an All-Star this year whom the Twins traded to Washington on July 31. "You just want to go home and hang out with your family. It took Segura a couple of years to bounce back. He's obviously having a great year this year, but I couldn't even imagine. Having a child now [Kintzler's son, Knox, will turn two in October], I could not even imagine that happening to me."
Indeed, 2014 and 2015 were the worst seasons of Segura's six-year career. In 2014, he posted a career-low .246 batting average. In 2015, he racked up a career-worst .281 on-base percentage. This summer, he's hitting .319/.373/.440.
"The fact that Sano is still here, and he's standing," Kintzler says. "... He's probably even a better person now, and probably a greater father now. You've gotta give a lot of credit to that guy. The emotions he went through … he must have a great family around him."
It is impossible to quantify the ongoing effect of sorrow on batting averages and on-base percentages, but after his eye-opening debut in 2015, Sano was more disappointing than not in 2016. Life continued charging at him at full volume, beginning with a difficult transition from third base to right field in spring training. With Trevor Plouffe then ensconced at third and the Twins wanting to shoehorn Sano's bat into the lineup, they sent him out early on many spring training mornings to learn the outfield.
Retired Twin-turned-special adviser Torii Hunter served as his personal tutor in Fort Myers, Florida, and together they would work on fly balls, routes, footwork and throwing to the cutoff man.
"He gave it a great go," Hunter says. "He was willing. He did not stop and complain one time. He was like, 'All right, if this is how I'm going to be in the majors, I'm going to do it."
But he's so big, and he never did become comfortable. Finally, on July 1, the Twins pulled the plug and moved him back to third base.
"Playing right field, I was more tired," says Sano, whose batting average dipped 33 points from '15 to '16 (.269 to .236) and whose on-base percentage dropped 66 points (.385 to .319). "I don't take a rest. I need to run in from the outfield to come hit. It's a good decision to make, and I never can say no, but I want to say thanks to God for giving me a chance to come back to third base."

Throughout, be it from fatigue, lack of focus, immaturity, the grief still simmering in the back of his mind or any number of other reasons, Sano gave away far too many at-bats in 2016, several Twins acknowledge . Among others, Antony had several conversations with him throughout the summer "trying to help him through some things," Antony says. "Sometimes you need to kick him in the rear, and sometimes you need to put your arm around him and say, 'Hey, we believe in you.'
"I think he always feels like he's battling to be one of the most respected players in the game, in a positive way. He takes pride in it, rather than expecting something to be handed to him. When someone is critical, it hurts him.
"He's somewhat of a sensitive giant."
For several days after he was named as an All-Star in early July, Sano's entire body language changed. An always-gregarious personality became even more bubbly. His smile was brighter, his enthusiasm greater.
Though he leads the majors with 159 strikeouts, his .863 OPS ranks 17th in the AL and his combination of 25 homers, 72 RBI and .356 OBP is in line with what the Twins envisioned as his career path.
"I've known him since about 110 pounds ago," Radcliff quips. "We always thought he was a hitter, not just a slugger. I still think that's going to be part of his deal. He's a threat to get a hit, not just a homer.
"And eventually, he's got the kind of personality and makeup that can impact the clubhouse."
It was Radcliff who, working in tandem with Guerrero, went to former Minnesota GM Bill Smith in '09 and asked if he would please go to ownership to sign this kid? The Twins already were over their international budget allotment at the time, but owner Jim Pohlad told Smith, if you think this is the right move, go get it done.

"After we signed him," Antony says, "[Sano] kept saying, 'I'm happy to be with the Twins. They trust me. They believe in me.'"
There's more for Sano to master. Joe Mauer and Brian Dozier are the veteran leaders in the Minnesota clubhouse, but, as Molitor says, Sano wants to be a leader, too, and his influence is growing every day.
The manager sees it in the clubhouse, and in the dugout. When the Twins celebrated their 1987 World Series championship during a Target Field ceremony last month, Molitor happened to stand next to Sano at the dugout railing.
"There's a gentle spirit in there, but I think the competition rages," Molitor says. "He just couldn't stop talking about how much he wanted to have that experience one day, coming back and sharing the memories of a championship with friends and teammates. He had this huge smile on his face.
"He was listening to every word. He was engaged. It shows. He's starting to understand."
When Mauer smashed the first walk-off home run of his career to beat Boston on May 5, Sano raced from the on-deck circle to greet Mauer at the plate, then lifted him up into the air triumphantly as if Mauer, at 6'5", 225 pounds, was a pint-sized Jose Altuve.
"He wasn't like, 'I didn't get a chance,'" Molitor says. "He was the most excited guy on the field. And I think those little, small glimpses of how he views winning have become really [regular], so that's really cool, too."
Knowing all that he's gone through, the Twins treasure both Sano's prodigious home runs and his contagious laughter. Often, they seem to feed off each other. Like that rescued bird earlier this season, Sano has regained his strength and taken flight. It is evident in his All-Star status…and it was evident when he deployed a rubber snake in the dugout on a day when he was not in the lineup, practically giving poor pitching coach Neil Allen a heart attack on the spot. The laughs that followed engulfed the entire dugout.
Kintzler chuckles when he recalls someone asking teammate Ervin Santana earlier this season whom he would not let babysit his kids, and Santana replied Sano because "you can't let a kid babysit a kid."
"That's why he's so good," Kintzler says. "He shows up and doesn't take himself too seriously."
Every day this season before he was traded, Kintzler reminded Sano: Stay humble. By June, Sano was saying it back to Kintzler.
"I'm like, 'You don't need to worry about me. I've been humbled many times. You stay humble,'" Kintzler says.
A month after the Mauer walk-off, when Kintzler suffered a rare blown save opportunity, in Seattle, Sano was the first teammate on the scene again.
"Usually, the biggest superstars on the team aren't like that, but he was one of the first guys who came up to me and was, like, 'You're still our guy, you're still our guy,'" Kintzler recalls. "The next day, I got the save and he was the first one up to me, giving me a hug."
Then, when Kintzler notched another save right after Sano was named as an All-Star, the big third baseman bear-hugged him on the field and told the closer, "You're my All-Star. You're my All-Star."
"It was really cool," says Kintzler, clearly touched. "You just don't see that."
From when they were teammates in '15 to now, Hunter says, Sano has bounced back, grown and matured in so many ways.
"Talking to him about life, he gets it," says Hunter, who has advised the slugger on the value of learning English, financial literacy, marketing and being a good citizen. "He asks the questions, and that's what I love about him."

"He's helped me a lot," Sano says of Hunter. "He told me once that the best way to play baseball is to surround yourself with good people and a better world, and I think that's what I am doing now. It's allowed me to be who I am and it's helped me mature more."
With Dylan Miguel at home and a career just starting to find its rhythm, Sano has found it easier to make others smile.
Why, a couple of weeks ago at the Oakland Coliseum, a woman wearing a Minnesota jersey held up a sign reading, "Miguel Sano, can I have a hug?" and she was beside herself when he jogged over to deliver.
Out of the darkness that once enveloped him, a guiding light has emerged, attracting teammates, fans and, yes, even birds.
Kintzler nods approvingly, smiling and observing: "Everyone goes to him."
    
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.

Boston Red Sox rookie Rafael Devers not only hit a clutch game-tying home run against the New York Yankees Sunday night, he did it in record-breaking fashion.
The 20-year-old tied the game at 2-2 with a solo shot against Aroldis Chapman in the ninth inning, eventually sending the game to extra innings. According to Statcast, the pitch he hit out was 102.8 miles per hour, "the fastest pitch hit for a homer since at least 2008" when this type of tracking began.
ESPN captured the big moment:
Red Sox-Yankees never disappoints. https://t.co/4A3FeUuCgF
As ESPN Stats & Info noted, it was the first home run Chapman had allowed since the World Series last season. The Cuban flamethrower had only allowed six regular-season home runs since the start of 2014 as he has established himself as one of the top closers in baseball.
Considering the big shot came in such a big moment on national television in arguably the best rivalry in baseball, there was plenty of excitement after the hit:
DEVERS!!!!!!! He's got that little extra unafraid big moment somethin somethin
Devers says his goal when he plays baseball is to have fun. You don't have the stones to hit THAT pitch from THAT guy if you don't mean it.
Buy Rafael Devers stock. Wow.
Although Devers had only played 14 games entering Sunday, he has shown he is not overmatched at all in the majors despite his young age. He came into the day with a .327 batting average in 55 at-bats with three home runs and three doubles.
The Red Sox were already loaded with talented young hitters in their system, but the third baseman could be one of the best of the bunch considering his early success.

Tyler Clippard is on the move for the second time this season.
The Chicago White Sox announced they traded the relief pitcher to the Houston Astros "in exchange for a player to be named later or cash considerations."
Before the news was announced, Clippard had already updated his Twitter profile to reflect being a part of the new team, as shared by Sports Illustrated.
Did Tyler Clippard just break the news of his own trade to the Astros? https://t.co/Kjk6aqu3i6
Clippard began the year with the New York Yankees but was sent to Chicago as part of a seven-player trade in July.
The Yankees received three impact players in Todd Frazier, David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle in the deal.
While Clippard struggled in this recent stint with New York—4.95 ERA and 1-5 record in 40 appearances—he has been much more effective since joining the White Sox. In 11 games, he has posted a 1.80 ERA with one win and two saves.
The 32-year-old had been a solid setup man for seven years with the Washington Nationals, earning two All-Star appearances in this stretch including one in 2014. However, he has been on the move quite a bit over the past few years, with Houston becoming his sixth different organization over the last three seasons.
He will have worn three different jerseys in the past month.
Considering the White Sox are currently in last place and have no need for a reliever of this caliber, it makes sense to sell high to an Astros squad hoping to bring home a World Series title. Houston ranks 19th in the majors in bullpen ERA, per ESPN.com, but the latest addition could help the first-place squad take the next step in the postseason.

The Colorado Rockies announced third baseman Nolan Arenado exited Sunday's 5-3 loss to the Miami Marlins with a left hand contusion after he was hit by a pitch.
X-rays were negative.
Losing Arenado down the stretch would be a difficult injury for the Rockies. The three-time All-Star is slashing .313/.361/.588 with 26 home runs and 100 RBI and is a primary reason his team is in the middle of the playoff race.
Arenado also drilled 42 homers and knocked in 130 RBI and earned his third straight Gold Glove Award on the hot corner in 2015. He was a Gold Glover and All-Star again in 2016 with 41 home runs and 133 RBI.
Arenado is one part of the heart of Colorado's lineup alongside Charlie Blackmon, and losing him for significant time would make competing in the National League all the more difficult.
The Rockies will likely turn toward Pat Valaika or Alexi Amarista to fill in at third base until Arenado returns. Each of them is versatile enough to play all over the infield, and they at least give manager Bud Black some options with his daily lineup card.
Valaika or Amarista are fine options in the short term, but Colorado needs a healthy Arenado anchoring the lineup to reach its full potential.

Washington Nationals star Bryce Harper suffered a bone bruise in his left leg when he stumbled on first base during his team's 3-1 win over the San Francisco Giants on Saturday, and his agent put the onus on Major League Baseball to address the issue.
"We go to great lengths with the soil to make sure it's not wet and there are drying agents on the ground," Scott Boras said Sunday, per Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com. "I don't know what technology we apply or the studies that have been done on the composition of having a wet base. That's certainly something we need to look into. This injury was directly related to inclement weather and a player putting his cleat on the bag and it slipping across because the surface was slick."
Crasnick noted the first base bag was wet when Harper slipped.
According to Robert Flores of MLB Network, Washington general manager Mike Rizzo said Harper avoided tendon and ligament damage. Rizzo termed the bone bruise "significant," per Crasnick, and said he'll be out for a yet-to-be-determined amount of time.
Boras pointed to the NBA's practice of wiping and cleaning the floor whenever a player slips and compared it to the lack of cleaning bases between innings when there is poor weather.
Crasnick noted a potential rule coming from Harper's injury wouldn't be the first time a physical setback to a star player led to changes. Giants catcher Buster Posey broke a leg during a home plate collision in 2011, and MLB subsequently put rules in place to bolster catcher safety.
As for Harper, Dan Kolko of MASN said the injury "doesn't seem like a season-ender" but noted the team hasn't put an official timetable on his eventual return.
Washington is comfortably ahead in the National League East and can survive without Harper in the short term, but its World Series chances would take a significant hit if he didn't return to the field by October.
Harper is in the midst of a head-turning season with a slash line of .326/.419/.614, 29 home runs and 87 RBI.

Colorado Rockies manager Bud Black announced Chad Bettis will start Monday against the Atlanta Braves, according to ESPN.com.
It's the first time Bettis will take the mound in an MLB game since he began undergoing treatment for testicular cancer.
Bettis told ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick that doctors had diagnosed him with cancer last November, at which point he had surgery to remove one of his testicles.
"The surgeon is very confident that the cancer was isolated and has not spread and that my ability to have children should not be affected," Bettis said. "The Rockies and the MLBPA have been great, and I truly appreciate the care and support shown by [general manager] Jeff Bridich to both me and my family."
The cancer returned in March, and the 28-year-old right-hander began chemotherapy. He confirmed on Instagram in May he had completed the treatment:
A photo posted by Chad Bettis (@cbettis35)
Bettis went 14-8 with a 4.79 ERA and a 4.26 FIP in 2016, according to Baseball-Reference.com.
He rejoins the Rockies' active roster as the team is in position to reach the postseason for the first time since 2009. With a 65-51 record, Colorado is tied with the Arizona Diamondbacks atop the National League wild-card race. The two teams have a 4.5-game lead on the Chicago Cubs.
Beyond the emotional lift Bettis' return will provide, he'll add depth to a starting rotation that sits 19th in combined FIP (4.63), according to FanGraphs.

The San Diego Padres announced Sunday they agreed to a contract extension with manager Andy Green.
"Throughout the past two seasons, Andy has consistently proven to us his leadership abilities and strong character," general manager A.J. Preller said in the statement. "Andy's knowledge of the game and passion for his players has earned him respect in the clubhouse and throughout the organization. As we continue to build a system that produces winning baseball from top to bottom, I am confident that Andy provides the leadership and stability needed to deliver a championship to San Diego."
Green's extension comes even though the fourth-place Padres are just 51-65 this season and finished a disappointing 68-94 in 2016.
However, Green was already looking forward to the future in the team's announcement: "I'm both excited and motivated by the opportunity to continue to lead our players as we build a championship-caliber club for the fans of San Diego. I'm appreciative for the expression of faith this extension represents."
Green was the third base coach for the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2015 before he took over as San Diego's manager. The Padres' announcement noted he posted a 219-189 record during his time as a manager in Arizona's minor league system and was named the Southern League Manager of the Year twice.
Green's extension provides continuity for a Padres organization with its eyes on the future.
According to Jim Callis of MLB.com, they boasted the league's fourth-best farm system before the 2017 season started and had the third-best as of Aug. 3. Green will be tasked with parlaying the talented youth into a successful major league club following this extension.

Washington Nationals star Bryce Harper reportedly suffered a bone bruise in Saturday's 3-1 victory over the San Francisco Giants.
According to Robert Flores of MLB Network, Nationals general manager Mike Rizzo called the setback a bone bruise while noting Harper avoided ligament and tendon damage in the knee.
Jamal Collier of MLB.com shared the general manager's comments:
Here's Rizzo giving the diagnosis on Harper: https://t.co/ARYjylj8So
Harper's injury came when he tripped on first base and fell to the ground in obvious pain. He was helped off the field.
Dan Kolko of MASN said the Nationals didn't put an official timetable on the slugger's return but granted it "doesn't seem like a season-ender."
Kolko noted after the game Harper did not have a brace or even a significant limp but did wrap his leg below the knee after what appeared to be a major injury. Kolko also added Michael A. Taylor will come off the disabled list to take Harper's spot on the roster while the latter heads to the DL.
Washington is a head-turning 14.5 games ahead of the Miami Marlins in the National League East and appears comfortably on its way to the postseason. It has the cushion in the standings to survive this setback, and it is far more important from its perspective the star slugger returns to the field by October for potential postseason showdowns with the Los Angeles Dodgers and other National League contenders.
Harper was making an MVP case for himself before the injury with a slash line of .326/.419/.614 to go with 29 home runs and 87 RBI.
The Nationals will rely on other powerful bats in their lineup, such as Daniel Murphy and Anthony Rendon, until he is ready to return.

Count Chicago Cubs utility man Ben Zobrist among those who are ready for electronic strike zones calling strikes and balls in Major League Baseball.
Umpire Mark Wegner punched Zobrist out on a pitch Jesse Rogers of ESPN.com said "looked decidedly low" to end Chicago's 6-2 loss to the Arizona Diamondbacks on Saturday. Zobrist's comments came after the controversial call.
"If we want to change something like that, we're going to have an electronic strike zone because human beings are going to make mistakes," Zobrist said, per Rogers. "Tough situation for that to happen, but he's probably going to look at it and not be too happy with himself."
While Chicago still lost the game by four runs, the call ended its late rally that inserted drama into the otherwise straightforward Diamondbacks' victory. The Cubs had already pushed two runs across in the ninth with two out, and the tying run would have come to the plate had Zobrist reached base.
"That's something the league is going to have to look at, when you start ending games and games turn on one pitch like that," Zobrist continued. "It's an unfortunate situation, and now that we have the technology, we should probably get it right."
Zobrist's manager, Joe Maddon, acknowledged nobody likely felt worse about the call than Wegner.
"I really know Mark knows he messed it up," Maddon said. "I don't think anyone feels worse than he does right now. It was a ball, obviously. I'm not going to sit here and rail on him. I think he's a very good umpire."
The frustrating ending for the Cubs came in a longer stretch of struggles that has seen them go a mere 3-7 in their last 10 games. The defending World Series champions are now tied atop the National League Central with the red-hot St. Louis Cardinals, who have won eight games in a row.
As for Zobrist, he is slashing just .221/.311/.356 and hasn't parlayed his World Series MVP into a particularly impressive individual season.

Former NFL quarterback and current St. Lucie Mets left fielder Tim Tebow was hit in the head by a pitch from Tampa Yankees left-hander Trevor Lane in the ninth inning of their game Saturday night in Florida, according to ESPN.com, but he was able to remain in the contest after conferring with the team trainer.
Per that report, "The ball staggered Tebow and knocked his helmet off," but he seemingly escaped injury.
Erik Waxler of WFTS-TV in Tampa shared video of the incident: 
@TimTebow hit by pitch in head, 9th inning vs. @TampaYankees @stluciemets, stays in game and scores run. @abcactionnews https://t.co/IsyJSecFhY
Tebow, 29, is batting .243 with five home runs, 25 RBI and 15 runs in 44 games for Single-A St. Lucie. He also hit .220 with three home runs and 23 RBI in 64 games for the Single-A Columbia Fireflies this year.
Tebow's decision to make a run at a baseball career and his corresponding struggles have been well-documented following his football career, though he also had a 12-game hitting streak this summer. 
The 2007 Heisman Trophy winner for the Florida Gators played for four NFL teams—the Denver Broncos, New York Jets, New England Patriots and Philadelphia Eagles—during his time in the league, though he only appeared in games for the Broncos and Jets. The Patriots and the Eagles cut him before the 2013 and 2015 regular seasons, respectively.
In his NFL career, he accumulated 2,422 passing yards, 989 rushing yards, 29 total touchdowns and nine interceptions, completing just 47.9 percent of his passes.      

Washington Nationals star Bryce Harper was removed from Saturday's game against the San Francisco Giants at Nationals Park because of a hyperextended left knee and is expected to undergo an MRI on Sunday, according to Jamal Collier of MLB.com.
"Harper tried to beat out an infield grounder in the first, when he hit the bag at first [base] awkwardly. As his left foot made contact with the bag, it slipped over the top, and his leg appeared to buckle as he fell to the ground past the base, grabbing his leg by the knee," Collier noted.
Todd Dybas of the Washington Times relayed a screenshot of Harper not being able to put any weight on his injured leg:
This is terrible looking. https://t.co/raInSEyijX
"We just ask for prayers that it's not serious," manager Dusty Baker said, per Collier. "We're just urging everybody out there that are Nationals fans and baseball fans to say a prayer for him tonight, because he was in obvious pain out there. We're just hoping for the best."
Any significant injury to Harper could be devastating to the Nationals lineup, even with plenty of other talented players on the roster. With Adam Eaton already out for the year with a torn ACL, the World Series contenders are getting thin in the outfield.
In reality, losing a player of Harper's ability would be damaging for any team.
The 24-year-old is as fearsome a hitter as anyone in the sport, reaching the All-Star Game in four of his first five seasons.
He took home the 2015 National League Most Valuable Player award after leading the league in home runs, runs and on-base plus slugging. He batted .330 that season with a career-best 42 home runs.
After a down year by his standards in 2016, he is once again among the league's top hitters in 2017, batting .326 with 29 home runs and 87 RBI.
This latest injury could put a damper on the impressive season and create trouble for the Nationals. Adam Lind could be the first replacement option after his strong start to the year, although the entire roster will have to contribute to keep the offense afloat as long as Harper is unavailable.

Detroit Tigers first baseman Miguel Cabrera suffered a back injury Saturday against the Minnesota Twins.
Per the Tigers media relations department, Cabrera is officially listed as day-to-day after leaving the game with lower back tightness.
Cabrera was removed from Saturday's contest against the Twins in the top of the seventh inning and replaced by John Hicks. He was 1-for-3 with a single before being taken out.
The setback is just the latest for Cabrera, who has been hounded by various injuries—including back, oblique, groin and hip ailments—to this point in the 2017 season.
When he's been healthy, Cabrera has taken a step back at the plate.
A year after he slashed .316/.393/.563 with 38 home runs and 108 RBI, the two-time MVP entered Saturday with a slash line of .252/.337/.407 while cracking 13 home runs and driving in 53 runs.
With Cabrera banged up, the Tigers will likely use Hicks and Andrew Romine to hold down first base until they can get their slugger back into the lineup.
We are feline pretty good! Remember the last time we had a rally animal?  #RallyCat https://t.co/mzOAhelqLw
The St. Louis Cardinals' lucky charm is getting its own appreciation day. 
The Cardinals announced they will be hosting the first-ever Rally Cat Appreciation Day at Busch Stadium on September 10, when they host the Pittsburgh Pirates.
"Rally Cat," as he's become known, became an unofficial mascot for St. Louis after wandering on the field moments before Yadier Molina hit a grand slam during Wednesday's game.
Proceeds from the game honoring the stray kitten will go to the Animal Rescue Foundation to benefit feral animals just like him. 

The Colorado Rockies announced Saturday that they will sign former Philadelphia Phillies slugger Ryan Howard to a minor league contract.
Howard, 37, most recently spent time in the Atlanta Braves organization before he was released from his minor league contract on May 8.
A three-time All-Star and former National League MVP, Howard once ranked among the game's premier power hitters during a prime that stretched from 2006-2011.
Over the course of that six-year window, Howard clobbered 262 home runs and drove in a whopping 796 runs.
However, Howard's run as a franchise centerpiece came to an end in October 2011 when he suffered a torn Achilles tendon in the postseason against the St. Louis Cardinals.
After that debilitating injury, Howard was never able to return to form and batted better than .230 just once (2013) during his final five years in the City of Brotherly Love. Howard was also plagued by a lack of discipline at the plate and struck out 636 times between 2012-2016.
The Rockies can't expect much out of Howard since he's pushing 40, but he is a worthwhile flier who could pay dividends come playoff time as a pinch hitter if he proves capable of harnessing bits and pieces of his prime form.

The Milwaukee Brewers have reportedly pulled off a deal to acquire second baseman Neil Walker in a trade with the New York Mets. 
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports first reported the Brewers and Mets were "close" on a deal. Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports later reported the swap was done. There is no word yet on what New York will receive.
The Brewers have been trying to find an upgrade at second base since before the July 31 non-waiver trade deadline. ESPN's Buster Olney reported on July 22 the team was "digging into the possibility" of going after Ian Kinsler of the Detroit Tigers. 
Rosenthal reported Aug. 9 the Tigers placed Kinsler on revocable waivers, allowing the Brewers to put in a claim on him or wait for him to clear before engaging in trade talks. However, Rosenthal also noted Milwaukee was on Kinsler's 10-team no-trade list, and he would have to approve a deal.
Walker cleared waivers Aug. 6 and is a strong addition to Milwaukee's lineup. The 31-year-old is hitting .264/.339/.442 with 10 home runs, but a hamstring injury has limited him to 73 games. 
Milwaukee second basemen have been awful in 2017, collectively hitting .244/.312/.360 with a .672 OPS, which ranks 25th in Major League Baseball. The Brewers are just three games behind the Chicago Cubs in the National League Central, so Walker gives the team added hope of closing that gap over the final seven weeks of the regular season. 

Jeffrey Loria has sold the Miami Marlins to a group that includes former New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter and New York businessman Bruce Sherman. 
Per MLB.com's Joe Frisaro and CBS Miami's Mike Cugno, Marlins president David Samson announced the agreement to sell the team had been signed. Cugno added the deal is expected to be finalized in October. 
Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald reported Friday that Loria agreed to sell the Marlins for $1.2 billion, with Sherman serving as the "control person" and Jeter running "the business and baseball sides of the organization" after the deal becomes official. NBA legend Michael Jordan is also an investor in the group.
There has been speculation about a Marlins sale dating back to February, when Mike Ozanian of Forbes reported Loria had a handshake deal to sell the franchise for $1.6 billion that was never made official because a majority of the potential buyer's net worth was not actual cash but tied up in real estate.
Steven Wine of the Associated Press (via the Chicago Tribune) reported Joshua Kushner was the buyer who had a preliminary agreement with the Marlins. Kushner later ceased negotiations, per Mark Moore of the New York Post.
Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald reported on March 4 Loria was "fully expected to sell the team sometime this year" and the team was "actively engaged in discussions with four groups and have had additional conversations with two others."
Loria's ownership of the Marlins has drawn its share of scrutiny. He previously owned the Montreal Expos before selling the franchise to Major League Baseball in 2002 for $120 million, then bought the Marlins for a total of $158 million by procuring the additional $38 million in a loan from MLB, per ESPN.com. 
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened an investigation in 2011 regarding the financing for Marlins Park. It took four years and was eventually closed with no charges brought against the team, though David Smiley of the Miami Herald did note Miami-Dade County wound up taking on "more than $2 billion in debt to finance the stadium's construction."
Loria has rarely shown a willingness to run the Marlins as anything more than a business to make himself money, even at the expense of the franchise and its fanbase. 
The Marlins had an Opening Day payroll over $75 million once from 2000 to 2016, per Cot's Baseball Contracts. That was in 2012, the first year of Marlins Park when the team surprisingly opened its wallet to sign Jose Reyes, Heath Bell and Mark Buehrle. 
The Marlins are spending a franchise-record $115.4 million on payroll in 2017, per Cot's, though Josh Kosman and Claire Atkinson of the New York Post reported in July the team could lose $70 million this season. 
After the team went 69-93 in 2012, Loria traded Reyes, Buehrle and Josh Johnson, whose combined salary heading into 2013 was $35.75 million, to the Toronto Blue Jays as part of a 12-player deal to dump payroll.
The Marlins did win the World Series in 2003, Loria's second season as owner of the franchise, but have missed the playoffs in each of the last 13 seasons with just four winning years during that span.
The sale of the Marlins gets Loria exactly what he wants—a nice payout on an investment he basically got MLB to pay for—and will hopefully get the franchise back on track after years of mismanagement.

Fact: Nolan Arenado had two RBI against the Marlins on Friday, becoming the first player in the MLB this season to reach 100 RBI.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

The New York Yankees announced Saturday that they placed starting pitcher Masahiro Tanaka on the 10-day disabled list because of right shoulder inflammation.
Tanaka has struggled through a difficult campaign, as he is 8-10 with a 4.92 ERA and 1.28 WHIP with 141 strikeouts in 133.2 innings pitched.
In his last outing, the Japanese righty lasted just four innings against the Toronto Blue Jays, surrendering two hits, five walks and three runs, two of which were earned.
Most of Tanaka's struggles came early in the year, as he's bounced back with a combined ERA in June and July of 3.88.
Health has always been a concern for the right-hander, even when he first arrived in the United States. He had put more mileage on his arm than most 25-year-olds who debut in MLB.
Those worries were validated in 2014 when Tanaka suffered a partially torn ulnar collateral ligament. While he avoided Tommy John surgery, he was limited to 20 starts as a rookie. In 2015, Tanaka experienced soreness in his wrist and forearm that kept him out for over a month.
The Yankees have been ahead of schedule in terms of their return to World Series contention despite Tanaka's struggles.
His injury comes at a bad time for the Yanks since they placed veteran lefty CC Sabathia on the DL on Friday (retroactive to Wednesday).
Rookie Jordan Montgomery will replace Sabathia in the rotation, and options to step in for Tanaka include Bryan Mitchell, Caleb Smith, Luis Cessa and highly touted prospect Chance Adams.

The Boston Red Sox announced Saturday that second baseman Dustin Pedroia was placed on the 10-day disabled list with left knee inflammation.
Pedroia was activated from the DL on Tuesday, but his knee issues persisted to the point that another stint was required.
This has already been an unlucky year for the veteran when it comes to injuries. After playing 154 games last season, Pedroia has missed time in 2017 due to issues with his wrist, ribs, knee and ankle.
The latest issue will once again force the Red Sox to play without their clubhouse leader.
When healthy, though, Pedroia remains one of the most consistent players in baseball. The former MVP and four-time All-Star had a resurgence in 2016 when he hit .318 with 15 home runs for the top offense in baseball.
He remains a dangerous hitter in 2017, posting a line of .303 with six homers and 54 RBI so far this season.
With fellow infielders Marco Hernandez and Josh Rutledge also injured, Eduardo Nunez likely becomes the next man up for Boston at second base with Brock Holt also capable of filling in if needed.

The Toronto Blue Jays called up United States Army veteran Chris Rowley to start Saturday's game against the Pittsburgh Pirates at the Rogers Centre.
Rowley allowed one run through 5.1 innings before being pulled in the sixth inning of the 7-2 victory.
"That was really, really cool," Rowley said, per Gregor Chisholm of MLB.com. "Having my family here to share it with me, walking off and all those people standing, that was something that was really special for me. I don't think anybody really expects to experience that in their life but it was pretty special."
Rowley signed with the Blue Jays organization after going undrafted in 2013. He made nine appearances in the Gulf Coast League that season before missing the next two years for active military duty.
The Atlanta native returned to Toronto's minor league system in 2016 and has spent the past two years quickly working his way up the ladder.
He's made 27 appearances, including 11 starts, between the New Hampshire Fisher Cats (Double A) and the Buffalo Bisons (Triple A) so far this season. He's posted a 2.29 ERA and 1.02 WHIP with 90 strikeouts in 106.1 innings across those stops.
Now, at age 26, he made his MLB debut with the league's only team not based in the U.S. He joked that's something he thought about.
"Definitely," Rowley said, per MLB.com. "There's a huge sense of nationalism that goes into both of the professions that I've been in, I know in the United States Army and now the only Major League Baseball team in Canada."
Rowley's versatility could also put him in line to serve as bullpen depth when rosters expand Sept. 1 if Toronto doesn't keep him in the rotation.

As the Tampa Bay Rays look to keep pace in the American League wild-card hunt, an injury to Evan Longoria's thumb will only add to their hitting woes.
The Rays announced that Longoria left Friday's game against the Cleveland Indians with a thumb contusion, adding that X-rays were negative.
The 31-year-old Longoria hit over 30 home runs with a slugging percentage over .500 for the first time since 2009 last season. He also played in at least 160 games for the fourth straight season, giving the Rays some offensive stability that they have otherwise lacked for years. 
There was a two-year stretch in 2011-12 when Longoria missed 117 games and appeared to be breaking down physically. He has rebounded nicely from that rough patch in his career, looking more like the perennial All-Star when his career first started.
With Longoria on the shelf, the Rays will use Daniel Robertson at third base for the time being. The 23-year-old Robertson is in his first MLB season and has been used as a super-utility player in Tampa Bay. 
The Rays still have Longoria under contract through 2022, so making sure he's healthy and ready to pick up where he left off is of the utmost importance for this franchise.  

Pittsburgh Pirates outfielder Andrew McCutchen suffered an apparent left leg injury Friday against the Toronto Blue Jays and was forced to leave the game, according to Stephen J. Nesbitt of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
After the game, McCutchen delivered a positive update:
https://t.co/PHAuB9zHNB
The 30-year-old veteran is currently hitting .289 with 23 home runs and 71 RBI on the heels of a somewhat disappointing 2016 campaign.
McCutchen hit .256 with 24 home runs and 79 RBI in 2016, which broke a five-year streak of All-Star appearances.
He was especially dominant at the plate every year from 2012 through 2015, hitting at least .292 with a minimum of 21 home runs, 83 RBI and a .400 on-base percentage in each of those campaigns.
McCutchen has been a durable player over the course of his career, but injuries were a bit of an issue last season.
He revealed in early June he had some swelling in his thumb, which may have contributed to his struggles at the plate.
With the exception of the 2014 season, in which he missed 16 games, McCutchen has sat out nine or fewer contests every season from 2010 through 2016.
McCutchen is a five-tool player when healthy, as he can hit for power, has great speed and plays Gold Glove-caliber defense in the outfield.
The former National League MVP's defense took a hit last season, though, which resulted in him being moved from center field to right field.
The Pirates have excellent outfielders in Gregory Polanco and Starling Marte, but finding a replacement for McCutchen, if need be, will be challenging.
Provided McCutchen misses some time, it is likely that second-year player Adam Frazier will see additional action. While Frazier doesn't provide McCutchen's pop, he has been one of the hottest hitters in the National League since the All-Star break.
While the Bucs are fairly deep and versatile, McCutchen is their most complete player, and being without him for any period of time will be a major blow to their chances to catch the Chicago Cubs in the NL Central.

The Seattle Mariners placed starting pitcher James Paxton on the 10-day disabled list Friday after he suffered a strained left pectoral muscle during Thursday's showdown against the Los Angeles Angels. 
According to the Seattle Times' Ryan Divish, Paxton will miss at least three weeks. 
News of Paxton's injury comes at just about the worst possible time for Seattle. 
The Mariners are in the thick of the postseason race and are currently 2.5 games back of the New York Yankees for the top spot in the American League Wild Card standings. 
As if losing Paxton—who is 12-3 with a 2.78 ERA and 1.078 WHIP—wasn't bad enough, the Mariners are also making due without Felix Hernandez (right shoulder bursitis) for the foreseeable future. 
According to MLB.com's Greg Johns, doctors have told the 2010 AL Cy Young Award winner he's likely to miss somewhere between three and four weeks. 

The Chicago Cubs could be without star catcher Willson Contreras for four to six weeks because of a hamstring injury. 
Per MLB.com's Carrie Muskat, Contreras has been diagnosed with a "moderate" strain of his right hamstring, which typically comes with a recovery time of four to six weeks. 
ESPN Chicago's Jesse Rogers noted the Cubs will re-evaluate Contreras in two weeks to get a more definitive return timeframe. 
Contreras left the Cubs' 3-1 loss against the San Francisco Giants on Thursday in the eighth inning after grabbing his leg while trying to run out a ground ball. 
The loss of Contreras is a huge blow for the Cubs as they try to fight off the St. Louis Cardinals, Milwaukee Brewers and Pittsburgh Pirates in the National League Central. They enter play on Friday with a 59-54 record, one game ahead of the Cardinals, with the Brewers and Pirates four back in the loss column. 
In his first full season with the Cubs, Contreras has become a key contributor for the defending World Series champions. The 25-year-old has hit .311/.380/.700 in 23 games since the All-Star break, and his 21 homers rank second on the team, behind the total of first baseman Anthony Rizzo.

The Miami Marlins are one step closer to being sold, as owner Jeffrey Loria has reportedly agreed to a deal with a group led by Derek Jeter and New York businessman Bruce Sherman.
Per Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald, Loria's agreement to sell the Marlins is for $1.2 billion, with Major League Baseball "expected to receive the written agreement on Friday."
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports and Charles Gasparino of Fox Business Network confirmed the Jeter-Sherman group won the bidding for the Marlins.
Darren Rovell of ESPN noted Michael Jordan is also part of Jeter and Sherman's group. 
The sale will not become official until it receives approval from MLB. Jackson noted MLB officials "are expected to discuss the sale, but not vote on it, in owners meetings in Chicago next week."
According to Jackson, the full vote from MLB's other owners "could be weeks away," and the sale is expected to close in the first week of October.
The full group led by Jeter and Sherman contains about 16 investors, who helped bring the total amount offered up to $1.2 billion, per Jackson.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported Aug. 9 a group led by Wayne Rothbaum and Jeb Bush dropped out of the bidding for the Marlins, leaving Jeter's group and another one led by Jorge Mas as the two finalists.
Loria has owned the Marlins since 2002 when he purchased the franchise from John Henry, who currently owns the Boston Red Sox. The Marlins won the 2003 World Series under Loria's ownership, but the franchise has not made the playoffs since and is on pace to finish under .500 for the eighth straight season.

It's no secret that the best of the best in Major League Baseball make a ridiculous amount of money each year.
In most cases, the cash shelled out to the superstars of the game is deserved and the players continue to produce at an incredibly high level.
But there are also some players who haven't lived up to expectations in every year of their mega-contracts.
We took a look at the 10 highest-paid players in MLB in 2017 and evaluated how they are living up their huge paydays.

Contract Details: six-year, $155 million deal signed in 2014
Jon Lester was one of the big prizes team president Theo Epstein wrangled into the Cubs organization as he started to build the team into a World Series champion.
Even when he had a losing record in 2015, Lester still picked up 11 wins and struck out 207 batters with a 1.12 WHIP, and he improved on that win total by eight in 2016 as the Cubs marched to the World Series. He also conceded fewer hits and runs in 2016 with an ERA of 2.44 and WHIP of 1.02.
The 33-year-old has been worth every penny the Cubs spent on him. One could even argue that compared to the other pitchers on this list and their importance to their teams, Lester might be underpaid.

Contract Details: seven-year, $161 million deal signed in 2009; 2-year, $50 million extension with vesting option for 2017 signed in 2011
CC Sabathia was once the hottest commodity in the MLB market. He was traded from Cleveland to Milwaukee in 2008 before landing in the Bronx.
Sabathia's deal has a lower total than the others on this list because of how the market has grown in the years since his contract was completed.
If Sabathia were in the prime of his career right now, he'd fetch somewhere in the Clayton Kershaw/Zack Greinke range.
Sabathia may not be the overpowering, exuberant left-hander who burst on the scene with the Indians, but he still packs a punch at 37, and he could fetch a decent deal during the offseason.

Contract Details: eight-year, $240 million deal signed in 2011
If Albert Pujols and his over 600 home runs are making this much money, imagine how much Bryce Harper and Mike Trout could haul in.
Pujols signed a megadeal with the Angels in 2011, one that has been met with criticism at points during his tenure in Anaheim.
The timing of the 10-year contract was a bit peculiar because ink was put to paper when Pujols was nearly 32 years old and coming off a decade of success with the Cardinals.
Pujols' numbers haven't been as consistently high as they were in St. Louis. That has led to questions about how long he can sustain his power at such a high pay grade, especially when there's someone in the same lineup with better numbers in most offensive categories.

Contract Details: seven-year, $175 million deal signed in 2013
Felix Hernandez has only known one home in the majors, and Seattle has treated him like a king.
Hernandez received the embarrassment of riches in February 2013 in the form of a seven-year extension. It was the first of two massive signings the Mariners made that year, along with Robinson Cano's $240 million contract in December.
The right-handed hurler has been astonishingly consistent for the Mariners for most of his career. Hernandez has been around the 200-inning mark each season with 10 or more wins since 2009.
But there is reason for concern with his contract since he's started to deal with injuries on a more frequent basis. With the extended time he's spent on the disabled list the last two years, one might start to wonder if the contract was worth it.

Contract Details: six-year, $162 million deal signed in 2013
Justin Verlander, like many of the game's top arms, commanded his contract because of how dominant he can be compared to the second tier of highly-rated starting pitchers.
One of the reasons potential suitors of Verlander backed off at this year's trade deadline was the high price tag he comes with as well as his no-trade clause and two years left on the deal.
Verlander has been a dominant force on the mound in most years since 2006. He's reached the double-digit win mark on 10 occasions, and he did so in nine straight seasons from 2006 to 2014. 
Verlander has also recorded six 200-plus strikeout seasons and has a career WHIP of 1.195. During his most dominant stretch from 2009 to 2012, he was the master of the complete game, a dying art in baseball, as he went the distance 17 times in that span.

Contract Details: eight-year, $248 million deal signed in 2014
Miguel Cabrera has been one of the best hitters of the last decade, and his talent demanded a massive payday from the Detroit Tigers.
With options for 2024 and 2025, if he plays until the end of his contract, Cabrera will be 42 years old. While it's a rarity to see a player of that age, it's not out of the realm of possibility with the numbers the third baseman has put up.
Cabrera has produced at least 25 home runs in all but one season since 2004, his first full year with the Marlins.

Contract Details: eight-year, $184 million deal signed in 2015
Jason Heyward is the most controversial name on this list given how little he produced for the Cubs in the 2016 season.
Although he was the catalyst for the Cubs' Game 7 win over the Indians with the meeting he called during a rain delay, Heyward was a massive disappointment in his first year with the organization.
What makes the contract more frustrating to fans is that Heyward's salary increased by $6.5 million from 2016 to 2017. It didn't help that the Cubs gave him a $20 million signing bonus when he put pen to paper.

Contract Details: seven-year, $217 million deal signed in 2015
David Price set himself up to end his career with a terrific deal when he signed with the Boston Red Sox in December 2015. He makes a minimum of $30 million a year across the seven-year deal that takes him to the age of 36.
However, the deal hasn't been ideal for the Red Sox, especially as the left-hander deals with injuries. From a team perspective, the contract seems risky given that it comes at the back end of Price's career, but he's proved he can be one of the game's premier arms when healthy.
Like a few of the players on this list, Price is part of an illustrious franchise but is searching for his first World Series ring.

Contract Details: six-year, $206.5 million deal signed in 2015
Arizona Diamondbacks right-hander Zack Greinke has a shorter deal than most of the players with massive contracts around the league, which is more profitable for him since he earns more in the six-year span.
There's no dip in pay for Greinke over the duration of the deal, as he'll make at least $34 million each of the six years while holding a limited no-trade clause.
Greinke, who hopped around a bit before landing in Arizona, has already displayed how great he can be on the bump for the Diamondbacks this season with a 13-5 record and 3.14 ERA with 165 strikeouts.
If he continues to pitch well this season, Greinke will hit the numbers we saw him produce in Kansas City, Milwaukee and Los Angeles in previous years.

Contract Details: seven-year, $215 million deal signed in 2014
It's hard to argue against the salary Clayton Kershaw is getting paid by the Los Angeles Dodgers. He is one of the most valuable players in the game when he is healthy and dealing on the mound.
The Dodgers have loaded up on superstars in the past, but Kershaw remains the key asset of the lot. He anchors a pitching rotation that is one of the best in the game, and he was locked down at the perfect age, as the Dodgers have him under wraps until his age-32 season if he doesn't opt out after 2018.
Kershaw has lived up to the deal with the 2014 NL Cy Young and MVP awards on top of his Cy Young honors in 2011 and 2013. The only thing that has eluded him in Dodger Blue is a World Series title.
    
Contract figures obtained from Spotrac.
In best promotion ever, #Rangers giving away miniature on-deck circles to honor Adrian Beltre: https://t.co/9pzL8ZfRI9
Texas Rangers third baseman Adrian Beltre was booted from a game in July because umpire Gerry Davis didn't like where the 38-year-old was standing while on deck and waiting for his at-bat. When Davis told Beltre to move to the on-deck circle, Beltre instead dragged the circle to where he was standing, and Davis ejected him. 
The Rangers plan to commemorate that moment with a unique giveaway. 
As explained by Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News, the Rangers will offer miniature "on-deck circle" mouse pads to the first 15,000 fans who make it to Globe Life Park in Arlington ahead of the team's contest versus the New York Yankees on September 9. 
The promotion is part of a two-day celebration of Beltre, who reached 3,000 career hits a few days after his infamous ejection. 
No word on if Davis will receive a mouse pad of his own from the club.
[Twitter]

The 2017 MLB season has already given us a handful of notable milestones.
Albert Pujols joined the 600-homer club in June, Adrian Beltre all but punched his ticket to the Hall of Fame with hit No. 3,000 in July and the Los Angeles Dodgers have been historically good over the past few months.
What milestones and records might we see achieved the rest of the way?
Ahead is a quick rundown of what to watch for over the regular season's final two months.

Kansas City Royals HR Record: 36
Record Holder: Steve Balboni, 1985
Challenger: Mike Moustakas (current: 32; pace: 45)
The Kansas City Royals are the only team in baseball that has never had a player produce a 40-homer season.
Steve Balboni still holds the single-season franchise record with the 36 he slugged back in 1985, a total that didn't even pace the AL that season, as Darrell Evans (40) and Carlton Fisk (37) both hit more.
"It is surprising, the way people have been hitting home runs in the years since I retired," Balboni told Pete Grathoff of the Kansas City Star in 2013. "It does seem unusual that 36 is still the record."
It doesn't look like that record will survive the 2017 season, though.
Mike Moustakas surpassed his previous career high of 22 homers by the All-Star break, and he's on pace to best Balboni's record by nine. Free agency awaits in the offseason, so he picked the perfect time for a power surge.
        
Colorado Rockies Save Record: 41
Record Holder: Jose Jimenez, 2002
Challenger: Greg Holland (current: 34; pace: 48)
The Colorado Rockies rolled the dice on a one-year, $6 million deal for Greg Holland in free agency, hoping he could return to the All-Star form he had prior to Tommy John surgery.
He's done just that, leading the majors with 34 saves in 37 chances to go along with a 2.79 ERA, 1.14 WHIP and 11.6 K/9.
Save total is as much about opportunity as it is about execution, so credit a contending Rockies team for putting Holland in a prime position to set a new franchise record for saves.
         
Miami Marlins HR Record: 42
Record Holder: Gary Sheffield, 1996
Challenger: Giancarlo Stanton (current: 39; pace: 56)
Giancarlo Stanton is already the Miami Marlins' franchise leader in career home runs (247), RBI (625), total bases (1,861) and WAR (31.9).
He'll almost certainly add single-season home run leader to that list before August is over.
Stanton leads the majors this year with 39 long balls. That's already good for the second-highest total in franchise history, trailing only Gary Sheffield, who hit 42 in 1996.
Those 39 homers represent a new career high for Stanton, who previously hit 37 twice.
        
Houston Astros BA Record: .368
Record Holder: Jeff Bagwell, 1994
Challenger: Jose Altuve (current: .365)
Jeff Bagwell set the Houston Astros franchise record when he hit .368 over 479 plate appearances during the strike-shortened 1994 season.
Jose Altuve has made a run at that record en route to winning a pair of AL batting titles with averages of .341 in 2014 and .338 in 2016, and he's taken things up a notch this year.
A ridiculous .485/.523/.727 line over 107 plate appearances in July gave his average a major shot in the arm. With his contact skills and plus speed, a .370 average is well within reach.

Record: 5,693 in 2000
Current Total: 4,306
Current Pace: 6,119
      
Outlook
It's no secret balls are flying out of the yard this season.
Amid stories of juiced baseballs, 59 players have already reached the 20-homer mark, including the likes of Marwin Gonzalez, Trey Mancini, Matt Davidson, Yonder Alonso, Scott Schebler and Justin Smoak.
In total, 4,306 big flies have been hit so far this year, putting the league on pace to shatter the previous mark of 5,693, hit back in 2000.
Here's a look at how things have been trending over the past five seasons:
It hasn't been a steady progression to where we are today, as last year saw a jump of over 700 home runs, but we're still headed for uncharted territory.

Record: 223
Record Holder: Mark Reynolds, 2009
Challenger: Miguel Sano (current: 154; pace: 221)
Challenger: Aaron Judge (current: 149; pace: 214)
Challenger: Khris Davis (current: 149; pace: 210)
      
Outlook
Home runs may be trending upward around the league, but so too are strikeouts as hitters continue to adopt an all-or-nothing approach.
Here's a look at how things have been trending in the strikeout department:
Miguel Sano, Aaron Judge and Khris Davis are all on pace to surpass the 200-strikeout mark—something that's only been done nine times in MLB history.
Three of those seasons belong to Mark Reynolds, including the record of 223, which could be in jeopardy if Sano slumps down the stretch.

Last 20-Loss Season: Mike Maroth, 2003
Challenger: Rick Porcello (current: 14; pace: 20)
      
Outlook
Rick Porcello looked like a prime candidate for regression after going 22-4 with a 3.15 ERA and 1.01 WHIP last season to claim AL Cy Young honors.
Those numbers were at least partially propped up by a .269 BABIP, and his 3.40 FIP and 3.78 SIERA both painted him as a pitcher who benefited from good luck.
However, no one predicted he'd make a run at 20 losses.
Porcello hasn't been nearly as good this season with a 4.63 ERA and 1.37 WHIP, but his 6-14 record over 24 starts is still surprising.
Consider that the last pitcher to lose 20 games was Mike Maroth as part of a 119-loss Detroit Tigers team in 2003.
Meanwhile, this year's Boston Red Sox sport a .570 winning percentage atop the AL East standings, putting them on pace to win 92 games.
Porcello should get about nine more starts the rest of the way as long as he stays healthy, which puts him on pace for exactly 20 losses.

Last 300-Strikeout Season: Clayton Kershaw, 2015
Challenger: Chris Sale (current: 229; pace: 325)
Challenger: Max Scherzer (current: 210; pace: 301)
      
Outlook
When Clayton Kershaw eclipsed the 300-strikeout mark during the 2015 season, it was the first time since 2002 that a pitcher had reached that milestone.
All told, there have been 65 such seasons, but it's become a far bigger accomplishment in the age of pitch counts and deep bullpens.
A whopping 31 of those seasons came prior to 1900, at the height of the dead-ball era, and all but 12 occurred before the 1990 season.
Put another way, if your name isn't Nolan Ryan, Randy Johnson, Curt Schilling, Pedro Martinez or Clayton Kershaw, you haven't reached 300 strikeouts in the past 30 years.
However, the 2017 season could give us a pair of 300-strikeout performers if Chris Sale and Max Scherzer continue at their respective paces.
It's also worth noting the single-season franchise records for the Red Sox (313) and Washington Nationals (305)—both held by Pedro Martinez—could fall if both pitchers finish strong.

Record: .167
Record Holder: Pedro Martinez, 2000
Challenger: Max Scherzer (current: .170)
        
Outlook
A chance at 300 strikeouts is not the only thing Washington Nationals ace Max Scherzer will be chasing the rest of the way.
The 33-year-old also has the opportunity to take down the all-time record for lowest opponents' batting average by a pitcher who qualifies for the ERA title.
That record belongs to Pedro Martinez, who held hitters to a .167 clip in 2000 in one of the most dominant pitching seasons in baseball history.
He finished that season at 18-6 with a 1.74 ERA, 0.74 WHIP and 284 strikeouts en route to his third Cy Young Award in four years.
The average fan might not appreciate how dominant Scherzer has been this season. As long as he doesn't hit a rough patch over the final two months, he should add a third Cy Young Award of his own.

Record: 49
Record Holder: Mark McGwire, 1987
Challenger: Aaron Judge (current: 35; pace: 50)
Challenger: Cody Bellinger (current: 33; pace: 47)
      
Outlook
It's not supposed to be this easy.
New York Yankees phenom Aaron Judge has taken the league by storm with his light-tower power, slugging 35 home runs and setting a new franchise rookie record in the process.
Not to be outdone, slugger Cody Bellinger has launched 33 homers of his own for the first-place Los Angeles Dodgers, leaving him two short of the 35 hit by Mike Piazza when he took home NL Rookie of the Year honors in 1993.
However, both players have their sights set on more than their respective franchises' rookie records, as they're no doubt eyeing the MLB rookie record of 49, set by Mark McGwire during the 1987 season.
Since that record was established, Albert Pujols (37, 2001) and Jose Abreu (36, 2014) have come the closest to taking it down.
At the very least, Judge and Bellinger look like safe bets to become just the second and third MLB rookies to reach 40 homers.

Record: 116
Record Holders: 1906 Chicago Cubs, 2001 Seattle Mariners
Challenger: Dodgers (current: 81; pace: 115)
      
Outlook
Just how good are the 2017 Los Angeles Dodgers?
With a .711 winning percentage, they're on pace for 115 wins, which would leave them one victory short of the single-season record.
However, that overall winning percentage might not be the best judge for how they'll perform the rest of the way.
Since getting off to an unspectacular 22-18 start, they've been nearly unstoppable, going 59-15 over their past 74 games.
That equates to a .797 winning percentage. If they can maintain that level of play the rest of the way, they'd go 38-10 over their final 48 games for a 119-43 record.
With the NL West title and home-field advantage essentially already in the bag, a chance to be the winningest team in MLB history should give the Dodgers plenty to play for in September.
       
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.

The Boston Red Sox (65-49) will go for their ninth win in a row and attempt to increase their lead in the American League East as small road underdogs at the sportsbooks for Friday's series opener with the New York Yankees (60-53).
The Red Sox have put together a season-high eight-game winning streak, with the past two victories coming on the road in a two-game sweep of the Tampa Bay Rays.
      
Betting line: The Yankees opened as -110 favorites (wager $110 to win $100); the total is at 9.5 runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Line updates and matchup report.
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 3.8-3.7 Red Sox. MLB picks on every game.
      
Why the Red Sox Can Pay on the MLB Lines
Boston is playing its best baseball of the season, with seven of the team's eight wins during the streak decided by two runs or more. The Red Sox outscored the Rays by a combined 10-2 in Florida and got a much-needed day off on Thursday.
They open this three-game set looking to make a statement in New York, with lefty Eduardo Rodriguez (4-3, 4.08 ERA) pitching better lately. The 24-year-old Venezuelan has allowed six runs and 11 hits in 10 innings over his past two starts, walking five and striking out 10 as Boston defeated the Kansas City Royals and Chicago White Sox.
     
Why the Yankees Can Pay on the MLB Lines
One of the Red Sox's weaknesses this season has been playing away from home, with the team sporting a 29-29 road mark. They are much better at Fenway Park (36-20), although the Yankees still found a way to win four of the first six meetings there earlier in the season. In fact, New York is 6-3 in nine meetings with Boston overall this year.
The Yankees are hoping recently acquired starting pitcher Jaime Garcia (5-8, 4.49) can perform better than he did in his debut, on the road against the Cleveland Indians. Garcia is playing for his third team in 2017, and he should be motivated for his first home start.
       
Smart Betting Pick
New York has owned this series, winning nine of the previous 12 meetings, according to the OddsShark MLB Database. While the Yankees are struggling a bit, this is still the best rivalry in baseball—one they will want to continue dominating. As a small favorite, they are worth backing in this spot.
        
MLB Betting Trends
The total has gone under in four of Boston's past five games.
Boston is 3-9 in its past 12 games when playing New York.
The total has gone under in six of New York's past nine games.
       
All MLB lines and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.

Chad Bettis had to be hiding the hurt. No one confronts cancer with a smile.
Not all the time, not for every minute of every day. Not when he hears a diagnosis in November and has doctors tell him a month later he has it beat, only to find out in March the cancer has returned.
Not when he was 27 years old, with his first child due weeks later.
Stand up to cancer, sure, as Major League Baseball's favored charity says. But as his Colorado Rockies teammates watched with admiration, Bettis did more than simply not let cancer get him down.
"On the inside, I'm sure he was pissed off," Rockies pitcher Kyle Freeland said. "But he kept projecting positivity."
He projected it at the ballpark. He projected it at home. He even projected it the night he got the call telling him he had testicular cancer, right in the middle of an anniversary dinner in November with his wife, Kristina.
"We didn't even leave the restaurant," Kristina Bettis remembered. "It's how Chad is. He's so positive. He just said, 'We're going to finish dinner. We're going to have a great night.'
"He's a rare breed."
He finished dinner and he finished cancer treatments, the first time and then the second time, when a CT scan in spring training showed the cancer had returned to his lymph nodes. He made it to the hospital to be there when Kristina gave birth to Everleigh on March 29, in between Chad's chemotherapy sessions.
Now, not even three months after the last of those sessions, Bettis has just about made it back to the major leagues. He's expected back with the Rockies next week, with the Denver Post reporting he will likely start Monday at Coors Field against the Atlanta Braves, and a whole bunch of people couldn't be happier for him.
"A piece of our family is coming back," Freeland said.
Now there really is a reason to smile.
The road back from cancer has been a long one, but to hear Bettis tell it, it's been filled with blessings. Becoming a father was the biggest, and Bettis still marvels at the timing.
It was a doctor visit early in Kristina's pregnancy that encouraged him to do the self-exam that led to catching the tumor early. Everleigh's arrival gave the family a focus other than Chad's cancer, providing everyone with a reason to feel good and allowing Chad to avoid constant questions about how he was doing.
"It completely took the attention off of me," he said. "That was really nice."
"He was telling me, 'You'll get through this,'" Kristina said. "And he was going through chemo."

The chemotherapy came with some of the usual side effects. Bettis' hair fell out. But there was another blessing. Unlike many patients, he didn't lose significant weight. He didn't lose his appetite.
He was strong enough to hold his newborn daughter, even after two nights sleeping on the couch in Kristina's hospital room.
He was also strong enough to keep throwing a baseball in between treatments, whenever he felt up to it. The Rockies' Salt River Fields spring training complex is near the couple's Arizona home, so Chad would head over and play catch to keep his arm in shape.
Beating cancer was the first goal, the most important goal. But Bettis was determined to resume a baseball career that saw him get to the major leagues in 2013. He was a 14-game winner with the Rockies in 2016, and before the cancer diagnosis he was supposed to be a big part of their rotation this year.
"Our pitching coaches, they love this guy," said Bud Black, who took over as Rockies manager this season.
The Rockies players love him, too, and they were thrilled when he walked back into the clubhouse June 6, just three weeks after his final round of chemotherapy.
"He's one of our energy guys," pitcher Jon Gray said. "A lot of people look up to him."
He joined a team that had been one of baseball's first-half surprises, a team that was in first place in the National League West, one game ahead of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Bettis would have been happy to be back no matter what their record was, but the way the team had played made his return that much more exciting.
"It was a lot of fun to have him around," second baseman DJ LeMahieu said.
He was around, at home and on the road. But Bettis' only game experience since last season had been two innings in spring training, so he wasn't close to being ready to pitch. That first day back, he threw from 75 and 90 feet in the outfield and told reporters he felt winded, according to Nick Groke's report in the Denver Post.
It was basically a spring training routine, leading up to his return to the mound July 13, in a rehabilitation start for Double-A Hartford. Bettis pitched again for the Yard Goats five days later, and he then made four starts for Triple-A Albuquerque to set up his return to the Rockies.

On the mound, it seemed little had changed from before the cancer. Bettis was still able to throw his fastball 91-93 mph, and his changeup, curveball and slider were there.
But there was a difference Bettis noticed, even if no one else saw it.
He was having fun.
He thought he always had, but as he looks back now, he sees there was a time baseball had taken over his life.
"It was not fun," he said.
Now, taking the mound as a father and a cancer survivor, Bettis felt better.
"It's more fun," he said after his second start in Hartford. "I feel like I'm enjoying baseball much more than I have before. Baseball still matters to me. I love it, and I want to play it for as long as I possibly can. But when you have to go through a situation where your livelihood's at stake, there's not a lot of things that matter before your life."
Thanks to early detection and good care, Bettis has his life again. He wants to make sure others have the same chance, which is why he has used any opportunity to talk about his own experience with cancer. He reached out to Stand Up to Cancer and the Testicular Cancer Society.
"As a major league player, he has almost unlimited access to reach people," said Mike Craycraft, the Society's founder. "It's just an incredible platform, and he's doing such a good job."
As Bettis said, women are told all the time to perform self-exams to detect breast cancer. Men are rarely told the same about testicular cancer, even though it's the most common form of cancer for men aged 15 to 35.
"It shouldn't be, but testicular cancer is hard for some guys to talk about," Craycraft said.
Bettis is talking about it now, telling the story about a little bump the size of a grain of rice was the only sign of a problem. He didn't feel sick, and at first he wondered if it really was anything to worry about.
"I'm so glad we didn't wait," Kristina said.
Tests showed it was cancerous, and doctors quickly scheduled surgery. And when that surgery was done and the blood work was clean, Bettis thought that was it. He worked to get ready for spring training and began the spring with a normal program. He kept up with the blood tests, but they showed no changes.
Then came the CT scan that showed the cancer was back.
Amazingly, Bettis still pitched in a spring game for the Rockies, even after finding out. But doctors told him this time he would need chemo.
"He handled it with such poise," Kristina said.
He handles most everything that way. When Bettis was in Hartford, he did the traditional rehabbing big leaguer thing of buying a nice postgame meal for his minor league teammates. But Bettis didn't "big league it" in other ways. When the Yard Goats played a 13-inning game, he stayed in the dugout to support his teammates for every inning.
"He was here from noon to midnight," Hartford manager Jerry Weinstein said. "That's all you need to know about him. He just makes good choices. I had him in [Class A] Modesto [in 2011]. He hasn't changed.

"He's the kind of guy you'd like your daughter to marry, the kind you'd like your son to be. Be like Chad."
He's the kind of guy who was easy to root for through his battle with cancer. LeMahieu and Charlie Blackmon held up cards with Bettis' name during the Stand Up to Cancer salute at the All-Star Game.
"I don't want to say I know what he's been through, but I've been told what he's been through," Blackmon said. "What an unbelievable attitude. He's just a pleasure to be around."
"I can't wait for him to be back here," LeMahieu said. "He's a great person."
On top of it all, the Rockies need Chad Bettis the pitcher as much as Chad Bettis the person. They're one of the NL's best teams and in the thick of the playoff race despite a struggling rotation, and he can provide a very tangible impact.
And now Bettis is coming back, as he always believed he would.
"I think God's grace got me through," he said. "At no point in time was I ever worried. It was like, 'This sucks. It really sucks.' I just knew. There was some real grace there, knowing I was going to get through it."
Now he has. Now there really is a reason to smile.
  
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

New York Mets starting pitcher Jacob deGrom exited Thursday's game against the Philadelphia Phillies after being hit by a line drive in the seventh inning, MLB.com's Anthony DiComo reported.
DiComo later reported deGrom suffered a bruised right triceps and x-rays were negative.
DeGrom pitched 6.2 innings, allowing four hits and striking out nine.
After posting sub-3.00 ERAs in 2014 and 2015, deGrom took a slight step backward in 2016. He finished 7-8 in 24 starts, and his ERA was a career-high 3.04. His FIP also climbed to 3.32, up from 2.67 and 2.70 in his first two years, per FanGraphs.
DeGrom's 2016 season ended early when he underwent elbow surgery to repair the ulnar nerve in his right arm. The fact he went under the knife didn't come as a huge surprise, considering his fastball and sinker velocities were well below their 2015 equivalents.
He averaged 94.19 on his fastball and 93.99 mph on his sinker in 2016, compared to 95.81 mph and 95.49 mph, respectively, the year before, per Brooks Baseball.
DeGrom's injury comes as both Noah Syndergaard and Steven Matz have missed significant time due to injuries of their own. The Mets moved Syndergaard to the 60-day disabled list in May as he recovered from a torn lat, and elbow soreness sidelined Matz to start the season.
Losing deGrom for any period would add to an already underwhelming 2017 campaign.   

The New York Mets will reportedly provide fans with a glimpse of their future Friday.
On Thursday, Anthony DiComo of MLB.com reported the Mets will promote first baseman Dominic Smith to the major league level. He will join the club for Friday's contest against the Philadelphia Phillies.
Smith is the franchise's second-best prospect in MLB.com's rankings.
"Smith continues to have a very advanced approach at the plate with outstanding bat-to-ball skills, leading to the consistent batting average, good walk and low strikeout rates," MLB.com wrote in its scouting report. "Smith continues to show outstanding defensive ability at first, with very good footwork and excellent hands."
Wilmer Flores has played 141 innings at first base for the Mets this season and is responsible for minus-one defensive runs saved, per FanGraphs, so New York will welcome Smith's impressive defensive ability.
According to MiLB.com, Smith is slashing .330/.386/.519 with 16 home runs and 76 RBI in the minors this year. His impressive numbers are a testament to his ability to hit for average and power as a potential force in the middle of New York's lineup in the immediate future.
The Mets sit in fourth place and are well out of the National League East race. Calling up Smith now is largely a nothing-to-lose situation. The move gives him the opportunity to pick up critical early reps at the highest level while not having to worry about performing in pressure-packed games.
Tim Tebow has hit five home runs since getting promoted to the Class-A St. Lucie Mets. His last long ball produced a special moment for one young fan.
On July 29, the former NFL quarterback faced the Charlotte Stone Crabs, a Tampa Bay Rays affiliate. Martin Fennelly of the Tampa Bay Times recently shared footage of a special encounter before the blast.
While waiting for his turn to bat, Tebow stepped off the on-deck circle to shake hands with Seth Bosch. Per Fennelly, the 10-year-old boy—he was nine at the time of this meeting—has high-functioning autism and neurofibromatosis, a genetic disorder that causes tumors on nerve tissue.
In a moment that would read like a fable if not for the video evidence, Tebow then proceeded to hit a three-run homer.
"When Seth came back to his seat, he was crying," Bosch's mother, Ileanna, told Fennelly. "And then Tim hit the homer. I started crying, too. How does that happen? I think God brought Seth and Tim together."
[Tampa Bay Times]

Fact: Ryan Zimmerman recorded his 906th RBI on Wednesday, becoming the all-time leader in RBI for the Washington Nationals/Montreal Expos franchise.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

Two recent additions have fueled the Boston Red Sox's red-hot August. That doesn't necessarily mean their work is done.
Eduardo Nunez has provided a boost beyond their wildest imagination, compiling six doubles and four home runs in 11 games. They might not have bothered to acquire him from the San Francisco Giants if they promoted Rafael Devers earlier. The 20-year-old third baseman has quickly warmed to the limelight, with three homers and a .949 OPS through 12 games.
Nunez and Devers have sparked a eight-game winning streak, giving Boston a four-game AL East lead over the New York Yankees heading into their upcoming series. Their rivals added more outside help before the non-waiver trade deadline, but it has yet to matter.
That could change if Nunez remembers he's not an MVP slugger and Devers experiences growing pains. Their intended strength, pitching, could instead hamper championship plans with David Price injured.
Let's take a look at how the Red Sox could place a bow on their contending roster.

Losing a player of Dustin Pedroia's caliber typically hurts. Before getting sidelined with an injured knee, the 33-year-old second baseman batted .307 with a .381 on-base percentage and 1.9 WAR. They were just fine without him.
In his absence, Nunez—a possible third-base solution if not for Devers' emergence—put on a stunning power display. Boston welcomed back its veteran leader with open arms on Tuesday, creating a logjam in the process.
Pedroia's return creates some difficult lineup decisions for Red Sox manager John Farrell. Devers isn't going anywhere, so Nunez will have to find another position. There are no openings at shortstop or in the outfield, leaving the versatile addition without a role.
The best solution: Give the banged-up Hanley Ramirez a breather.
Pedroia initially returned as a designated hitter, an easier decision with Ramirez dealing with a sore oblique. Although Farrell called it "a classic day-to-day thing" before the designated hitter returned on Wednesday, per WEEI's Rob Bradford, they have the depth to let him heal on the disabled list, even if just for the minimum 10 days.
Following a strong 2016, he has provided Boston league-average offense, with a 99 weighted runs created plus (wRC+). Mitch Moreland fares slightly worse, with a 93 wRC+, but he has recorded four doubles and two homers in seven August games after notching two extra-base hits (both doubles) in July.
Let Ramirez rest with a strategic DL visit. When he returns, he may need to settle for a lesser role unless Moreland reverts to his funk.

A full deck will make it tougher for Farrell to make room for Chris Young against left-handed pitchers, against whom he holds a career .265/.363/.473 slash line. Sitting Andrew Benintendi is the tough yet sensible move.
Taking away reps from a hot-shot rookie is often a foolish idea, especially since practice is the best way to improve. The New York Mets' Michael Conforto, who has succeeded against southpaws this season after spending 2015 and 2016 in a platoon role, offers a case study in letting elite talent learn on the job.
Then again, the Mets reached the World Series in 2015 with Juan Lagares performing better offensively and defensively versus lefties. In 105 plate appearances against same-handed pitchers since arriving last summer, Benintendi is homerless and slugging .228.
While Young is hitting an anemic .229/.333/.329 against them this season, a compelling track record since 2006 overrules the small sample size.
The same argument could be used to say there's insufficient evidence of Benintendi's futility versus southpaws. He has the hit tool to solve these woes, but Boston's waning patience should expire, leading the way for a regular timeshare. Strictly platooning the 23-year-old outfielder is merely a temporary answer.

Boston's hot streak has downgraded the alarm of Price's absence. Having last pitched on July 22, there's no word on when the former Cy Young Award winner will return to the mound.
Considering his season debut was delayed by an elbow injury that nearly required Tommy John surgery, the Red Sox should be prepared for bad news. If it comes, they must decide whether Doug Fister will remain a competent No. 5 starter during a tight division battle.
After struggling to find a big league job earlier this year, the 33-year-old has answered the call with strong starts against the Cleveland Indians and Chicago White Sox. In 14 combined innings, he allowed five runs with two walks and 12 strikeouts.
"You know, I feel really good," Fister said after his last outing, per MassLive.com's Christopher Smith. "It's a work in progress as always, it's been a long time coming."
If he continues to churn out quality starts, Boston could comfortably use him until Price recovers. Fister still, however, holds a 5.03 ERA this season. Recency bias shouldn't erase memories of his relinquishing 21 runs over his first five outings. 
Finding an available upgrade is the tricky part. Their best bet is taking a low-risk gamble on Marco Estrada, who is gradually bouncing back from a disastrous string of June and July starts. While his 5.12 ERA represents a step backward, the Toronto Blue Jays righty posted respective ERAs of 3.13 and 3.48 in 2015 and 2016 and has notched over a strikeout per inning through this year's doldrums.
If Price can't come back soon, Estrada is a better choice than Fister to fend off the Yankees. 

Acquired before the 2016 campaign, Carson Smith has pitched just 2.2 innings for the Red Sox. He could salvage their depreciated investment with a successful return.
They snagged the righty from the Seattle Mariners after he registered a 2.31 ERA and 90 strikeouts in 70 innings, some of which he spent as the closer. Expected to serve as Boston's setup man, he instead needed Tommy John surgery after his third appearance.
Fans who forgot about the reliever could soon be pleasantly surprised to see him factor into the pennant chase. The 27-year-old is rehabbing with the Triple-A Pawtucket Red Sox. After issuing three walks in his first professional performance since May of last year, Smith worked a scoreless inning on Tuesday.
"He looked good," Pawtucket manager Kevin Boles told MiLB.com's Mike Monaco. "He said he felt good after his outing and that was a positive step in a positive direction. Good to see him get through a clean inning on 13 pitches—very impressive."
Behind a spectacular season from closer Craig Kimbrel, Boston entered Wednesday with MLB's best bullpen ERA. The AL East leaders also acquired Addison Reed and welcomed Joe Kelly back from the disabled list, so they're not desperate for reinforcements.
Yet the Red Sox would love to bring back another high-leverage reliever who is more trustworthy than Heath Hembree and Fernando Abad. If his recovery goes well, Smith should receive a chance to make his mark in September.

The Red Sox don't need another hitter. When they see the postseason lurking, though, contenders occasionally cave and make luxury purchases.
Beside, they shouldn't bank on Nunez and Devers to demolish everything in sight through October. Before they gained super powers, the offense gravely lacked pop. Hot streak aside, no American League club has hit fewer home runs.
This doesn't mean Boston's offense is the worst. There's more to baseball than dingers. They sure are nice though, and the feeble pop has stifled them to a below-average wRC+. If team president Dave Dombrowski is feeling antsy, he could add a slugger to replace Ramirez or Moreland—or perhaps both if Pedroia stays healthy while Nunez and Devers keep raking.
Unfortunately, he missed the ideal candidate in Jay Bruce, who has hit 11 more home runs (29) than Red Sox leader Mookie Betts this year. Per ESPN's Jerry Crasnick and Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan, the Mets sent him to the Cleveland Indians for Ryder Ryan, a 22-year-old reliever drafted in the 30th round last year who carries a 4.79 ERA in Single-A.
Boston has plenty of table-setters with little archetypal middle-of-the-order power. They could have gotten one for a disposable prospect. 
He doesn't fit their needs as well, but perhaps the Mets would sell Curtis Granderson for a nickel if the Red Sox were to pay his salary. Although not the 40-homer hitter of old, he has rounded the bases 15 times with a .450 slugging percentage and 106 wRC+ this term. 
That's a tad better than what Ramirez and Moreland are offering. It's a long shot, but the Red Sox shouldn't get fooled into believing they possess an elite offense.
        
Note: All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.

The passing of the non-waiver trade deadline doesn't mean a contender like the Chicago Cubs is finished tweaking the active roster for the stretch run.
Whether it's an August waiver trade to add one final outside piece or a September call-up to provide some in-house help, there's plenty of work left to be done.
With our focus turned to those two potential areas for roster movement, let's take a closer look at what the Cubs might do the rest of the way.
          
Potential August Waiver-Trade Targets

Nothing derails a late-season push toward the postseason like a shaky bullpen, and calling the Cubs relief corps "shaky" this month doesn't quite do it justice.
In eight August games, the pen has posted a 5.25 ERA and 1.42 WHIP with two losses and two blown saves over 24 innings of work.
That makes further bullpen reinforcements an obvious August target, and Drew Storen of the Cincinnati Reds should be the team's No. 1 priority.
The 29-year-old has pitched to a 3.33 ERA, 1.24 WHIP and 8.0 K/9 over 48 appearances after joining the rebuilding Reds on a one-year, $3 million deal in the offseason.
He's not the same power pitcher he was a few years back when he saved 29 games and tallied 11.0 K/9 as the Washington Nationals closer, but he's learned to be effective with lesser stuff.
His fastball velocity sat at 94.7 mph as recently as 2015, but that's down to 91.2 mph this season, and he's become more reliant on his sinker and slider as a result.
While that's meant fewer strikeouts, his groundball rate has climbed to an impressive 51.9 percent this season—a trend that would play well in front of the Cubs' talented infield defense.
Here's a quick look at some other relievers who could be available this month, courtesy of a list of waiver-trade candidates compiled by Steve Adams of MLB Trade Rumors.
Keep an eye on Matt Belisle among that group.
Since struggling to an 8.66 ERA over the season's first two months, he's been lights out with a 1.67 ERA and 1.04 WHIP in 25 appearances. In fact, he hasn't allowed an earned run since June 24 and recently took over closer duties in Minnesota.
The 37-year-old would be a cheap addition as well with what's left of a $2.05 million salary, and his impending free agency should make the Twins amenable to a deal.
Beyond bolstering the bullpen, the only other potential need would be more starting pitching depth.
While Mike Montgomery has pitched well when called upon as a starter this year, ideally he'd be available out of the bullpen the rest of the way.
With that in mind, adding a capable spot starter could make sense.
San Diego Padres teammates Jhoulys Chacin (23 GS, 11-8, 4.15 ERA) and Clayton Richard (23 GS, 5-12, 5.17 ERA) are two low-cost targets worth considering.
Both players signed one-year, $1.75 million deals in the offseason and both have contributed in a long relief capacity in past seasons, so they wouldn't be out of place waiting in the wings in the bullpen.

Marco Estrada comes at a steeper price with the remainder of a $14.5 million salary, but he's looked terrific of late with a 2.84 ERA and 1.00 WHIP in his last three starts, and he's done his usual stellar work inducing soft contact (20.5 percent, 21st in MLB).
His price tag probably makes him more of a reactionary target than a potential preventative addition. In other words, a trade for Estrada would likely only happen as a result of a starter going down with a significant injury.
The rest of the starting pitching market is fairly weak and recalling Eddie Butler from Triple-A looks like a better option than going after guys like Derek Holland and Ricky Nolasco.
So look for the Cubs to target bullpen help and potential rotation depth if they pull the trigger on an August trade. But what about potential in-house help?
          
Potential September Call-Ups
There will be some obvious promotions when rosters expand in September.
Catcher Victor Caratini will return to give the team a third backstop and outfielder Mark Zagunis—who has an .867 OPS with 21 doubles and 13 home runs in Triple-A—will likely be back as well after getting a seven-game cup of coffee earlier this year.
Meanwhile, starter Eddie Butler and relievers Justin Grimm, Jack Leathersich, Rob Zastryzny, Felix Pena, Pierce Johnson and Seth Frankoff have all seen time in the majors this year and are on the 40-man roster, so they figure to be in the mix for some mop-up innings at the very least.
Outfielder John Andreoli could also get a look as a pinch-runner, despite not being on the 40-man roster, as he's swiped 220 bases in his minor league career. The 27-year-old has also posted a solid .789 OPS with 38 extra-base hits in his third go-round with Triple-A Iowa, though the outfield logjam won't afford him many opportunities.
No one from that group really stands out as a potential X-factor, though.
If there's one player suiting up down on the farm who could make a true impact down the stretch, it might be right-hander Dillon Maples.
I wrote about the intriguing right-hander earlier this week:
"The Cubs signed Dillon Maples to a $2.5 million bonus as a 14th-round pick in 2011—still the largest bonus ever given to a player selected after the third round.
"Control problems and some minor arm issues kept him from advancing beyond the High-A level in his first five pro seasons, but he's taken off this year and could be a legitimate X-factor down the stretch.
"Still just 25, he's posted a 2.57 ERA and .198 opponents' batting average with 91 strikeouts in 56 innings while reaching Triple-A. He's still walking batters at a 4.8 BB/9 clip, but his stuff is electric with a fastball that touches triple digits, a wipeout slider and a nasty power curve."
Manager Joe Maddon leaned hard on rookie Carl Edwards Jr. down the stretch last season with Hector Rondon nursing an injury and the rest of the relief corps struggling to bridge the gap to Aroldis Chapman.
If Maples earns a promotion and dominates big league hitters as an unknown commodity, he could carve out a similarly important role in this year's pen.
There's little doubt the Cubs are the most talented team in the NL Central if they play up to their potential, and they don't necessarily need to add anything to the current roster to walk away with another division title.
However, that doesn't mean some outside help wouldn't be welcomed with open arms, whether it's in the form of another trade addition or a minor league promotion, so keep an eye on the transaction wire in the weeks to come.
            
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Brooks Baseball, unless otherwise noted.

Some baseball players run. Some catch. Some throw. And some hit the ball really hard.
But which players do all of the above? Sounds like a job for Bleacher Report's MLB Metrics 101.
Hello, and welcome back. This week's topic is a look at the 10 most well-rounded athletes in Major League Baseball, as defined by everyone's favorite super-duper measuring system: Statcast.
Here are the Statcast specialties that will be in focus for this exercise:
One word of warning is that there is no publicly available leaderboard for throwing data, so getting stats on players' arms is a catch-as-catch-can situation.
Another word of warning is there's no overarching equation that will narrow down this list of 10 from the least athletic to the most athletic. The idea is too nebulous for something like that. And while events of 2015 and 2016 won't be overlooked entirely, what players are doing in 2017 takes precedence.
Let's begin with honorable mentions.

Kevin Kiermaier, CF, Tampa Bay Rays
Kevin Kiermaier is one of baseball's fastest sprinters, and he's known for having a rocket arm and a glove that can catch anything. Yet he's not among the leaders in high-difficulty catches in 2017, and his bat has lost thump to boot. He's a great athlete who's having a down year.
                                             
Starling Marte, CF, Pittsburgh Pirates
Starling Marte was a Statcast gem like few others in past years. He could run like the wind, throw darts and hit moonshots. But he's played only 33 games this season, for reasons that throw all of the above into question.
                      
Ender Inciarte, CF, Atlanta Braves
Ender Inciarte is a wizard with his glove but not much of a sprinter. He's also one of baseball's least powerful hitters.
                                              
Keon Broxton, CF, Milwaukee Brewers
Keon Broxton can certainly run and catch. But his power is part of what made him a big breakout star last year, and it just hasn't been there in 2017.
                            
Jake Marisnick, CF, Houston Astros
Per MLB.com's David Adler, Jake Marisnick is coming off a year in which he featured one of baseball's strongest arms. And he's now developing real power. But he's not especially fast by center field standards. Nor is he a standout with high-difficulty catches.
                       
Carlos Correa, SS, Houston Astros
Carlos Correa might have the best arm and most power of any shortstop. But his sprint speed falls only in good-not-great territory. Plus, his glove isn't as impressive as his arm.
                                      
Giancarlo Stanton, RF, Miami Marlins
Giancarlo Stanton is a massively powerful slugger with a great arm and a surprisingly strong glove. But there's one guy out there with a similar yet slightly better profile. More on him later.

It sure feels like Mike Trout deserves a proper spot in this week's top 10.
After all, he is Mike Trout. He's on his way to becoming one of the greatest players ever, and he's on that path because of a seemingly impossible blend of power and speed.
At 6'2", 235 pounds, he has the build of a standard bulky guy at your local gym, and he uses it to smash home runs at an elite average of 105.9 miles per hour. The average MLB player hits homers at only 103.3 mph. 
Meanwhile, Trout moves as if somebody strapped rockets to one of the standard bulky guys at your local gym. He sprints at an average of 28.3 feet per second. The average player sprints at 27 feet per second.
But, hey, even Trout isn't perfect.
He can still hack it as an everyday center fielder but has yet to make either a five-star catch or a four-star catch in 2017. He's also never been known for having a strong arm, and that's not changing.
Thus, a frustrating reality: Trout is at once an amazing athlete and an incomplete athlete.
There are regular catchers, and then there's J.T. Realmuto.
Even the video above doesn't do his throwing justice. Per Adler, he led all catchers in average pop time—the time the ball takes to go from the catcher's mitt to the fielder's glove—to second base on steal attempts in 2016. On one throw to third earlier this year, he recorded a Statcast-record pop time of 1.38 seconds.
In other words: He's both strong-armed and quick.
Realmuto's quickness also applies on the basepaths, where he sprints at an average of 28.6 feet per second. That makes him easily the fastest catcher in MLB and would indeed make him a fast runner at any position.
"I've always been fast, from playing football, basketball," he told MLB.com's Mike Petriello. "It didn't matter, whatever sport I was playing, I was always running. I tried to do my best to keep my athleticism with where it's at."
At the plate, the 26-year-old is more known for being a good hitter than a good slugger. But he's beginning to change that. He's already hit a career-high 13 home runs this season and has blasted them at an average of 104.2 miles per hour with a distance peak of 444 feet.
It's not as hard as finding them behind the plate, but it's not easy to find well-rounded athletes at the corners. They tend to have one or two athletic tools but not all of them.
Unless your name is Kris Bryant. In which case, bravo, sir.
The reigning National League MVP has power in spades. Although he's hitting his homers at "only" 103.6 miles per hour this season, he's clubbed several in the 450-foot range. He also has a 495-foot homer on his record, a mark that's been matched or surpassed only twice since he hit it in September 2015.
That's just part of being a 6'5", 230-pound hulk of a man. An unexpected part, meanwhile, is that Bryant's wheels actually move pretty fast. 
The 25-year-old's sprint speed of 28.3 feet per second ties him with Matt Chapman as the league's fastest third basemen. And he can go faster, as he's gone as fast as 28.6 feet per second this season.
Bryant's speed is part of the reason he's a quality defender despite his size. The other part is his arm. Statcast doesn't have much (well, anything) on it publicly, but it's regarded as yet another plus tool and looks the part on film.
Bryant is a good athlete for a corner infielder. But for the best athlete at any infield position, another member of the Chicago Cubs takes the cake.
It's Javier Baez, whose existence is like if a live wire strapped on a uniform and took the field.
The 24-year-old is best known for his defense, where he can make a difference any way you please. His lightning-quick hands can make tags that even Statcast doesn't have numbers for, but it does have numbers for his arm and his range. He's thrown as hard as 94.8 mph and has ranged as far as 132 feet to make a catch.
"That was stupid good," Cubs manager Joe Maddon said of the latter play, per ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers. "I don't know who else makes that play."
Baez's range stems in part from his speed. He has an average sprint of 28.1 feet per second, and he got up to 28.6 feet per second during his scamper around the bases at AT&T Park this week for an inside-the-park home run vs. the San Francisco Giants.
Last but not least, Baez has impressive power for a guy listed at just 6'0" and 190 pounds. He's averaged 104.1 mph on his career-high 16 homers this season and has knocked one as far as 449 feet.
And now on to MLB's many athletic outfielders, among whom Marcell Ozuna is an imperfect yet exciting member.
It should be clear from the video that Ozuna has his power stroke working in 2017. That blast at Tropicana Field traveled 468 feet, which ties a pair of Stanton dingers for the 16th-longest homer of the season.
That's just a taste of Ozuna's dinger-crushing prowess. His averages of 105.4 mph and 411 feet on his 26 homers rank prominently among the league leaders, and only three hitters have hit more 420-foot moonshots than he has.
At an average of 28.1 feet per second, the 26-year-old is one of MLB's fastest left fielders. He also has one of the better arms at the position. He was clocked as high as 90.2 mph last year, and per Petriello, that easily tops the average of 88.9 mph on "competitive throws." And he still has it this year.
Where Ozuna doesn't loom as large is in making difficult catches. But while his collection of four four-star outs isn't much, at least it's something.
And whether it's a home run robbery or a plain ol' sliding grab, he's hardly incapable of finding his way onto highlight reels. 
Yasiel Puig still looks the part of an athletic wunderkind. But in truth, the 26-year-old's athletic pinnacle does seem to be behind him.
Since 2015, Puig's average sprint speed has declined from 28.4 feet per second to 28.0 feet per second. This may be holding him back on defense, where he's made a modest four outs of four-star difficulty this season.
But now, the pivot from bluntness to fairness: Puig still runs much better than the average player and remains capable of wonders on defense. Just within this week's time frame, J.D. Martinez can vouch for that.
Elsewhere, Puig still has a rocket arm and enormous power.
Puig's right arm produced the longest distance covered on an assist during the 2016 season and has been clocked as fast as 96.3 mph this season. That's faster than an average heater from Pittsburgh Pirates right-hander Gerrit Cole.
In the past, Puig's power showed up in games only on frustratingly rare occasions. That hasn't been the case in 2017. He's slugged a career-high 21 homers and averaged a 106.1 mph in exit velocity on them. He's also hit his four longest homers of the Statcast era, peaking at 450 feet.
In short: The "Wild Horse" lives.
Bryce Harper is basically a left-handed-swinging version of Puig. Plus a few upgrades.
Harper's average of 106.1 mph on his homers is the same as his Los Angeles Dodgers counterpart's. But since Harper has A) eight more homers, B) has an exit velocity that peaked at 116.3 mph and C) has multiples of at least 450 feet, the balance does tip slightly in his favor.
And while Harper's arm doesn't generate headlines like Puig's does, it's arguably just as good and maybe even better. Just this season, he's had throws clocked at 96.6 mph, 98.2 mph and at 99.7 mph. That last one was basically an Aroldis Chapman fastball coming from right field.
And although he spends so much time trotting that he often doesn't need to worry about running, that's another thing the 24-year-old can do.
His average sprint speed is a solid 28.0 feet per second, and he is capable of reaching another gear. He hit 28.6 feet per second on a triple in July. To wit, that's faster than Trout's cruising speed.
On that note: No, Harper isn't a better player than Trout. He's just more of a complete athlete. Not bad as far as feathers in caps go.
Here he is. The guy who's basically a bigger, better version of Stanton.
With respect to Stanton's MLB-high 38 homers and the ludicrous power he's used to hit them, it's likely that baseball has never seen anything like Judge's power.
The 25-year-old is a 6'7", 282-pound leviathan who's averaging a league-best 95.3 mph on all his batted balls and a downright absurd 110.4 mph on his home runs.
Judge's 118.6 mph, 495-foot booming bomb (see above) is the single most impressive home run of the regular season. Throw his Home Run Derby into the equation, and you can gawk at a series of 500-foot blasts. The longest was 513 feet, which would be unbelievable if if didn't, you know, actually happen.
But as one scout said of Judge to MLB.com's Anthony Castrovince: "He's not just a big guy, he's an athlete."
Judge has an arm that can uncork throws as fast as 97.7 mph, and his average sprint speed is a solid 27.6 feet per second. That's 0.1 feet per second more than Stanton, and Judge has used his speed on defense, making six four-star outs and one five-star out. And one of the four stars just missed qualifying as one of the fivers.
Listed at just 5'9" and 180 pounds, Mookie Betts is basically Judge and Stanton in miniature form.
The big difference is that the pint-sized 24-year-old is a superior defender. Despite averaging a modest 28.1 feet per second in sprint speed, Betts co-leads MLB with 20 outs of at least four-star difficulty.
All but one of them are four-star outs, granted. But in general, it's a tidbit that confirms what the eye test has to say about Betts' defense. He brings range, energy and instincts fit for center field to right field.
It's not just Betts' glove that opposing batters have to worry about. He also has a strong arm. He showed it off with a 93.1 mph throw in the 2017 All-Star Game, and he hit 96.8 mph on the gun just a month earlier.
At his size, Betts is capable of hitting the ball only so far. His personal best in the Statcast era is a home run of 433 feet. Not bad but rather quaint at a time when possibly definitely juiced balls are traveling extreme distances on the regular.
Nonetheless, Betts hits rockets. He's averaging 104.1 mph on his homers, and only three of the 18 he's hit have left the bat at slower than 100 mph.
Just because Byron Buxton is hitting .221 doesn't mean he's not tons of fun in other ways.
The 23-year-old sprints at an average of 30.0 feet per second, a mark matched only by Billy Hamilton. And while Hamilton's certainly no slouch in center field, his defense doesn't quite match up to Buxton's.
See the ridiculous catch pictured above? That somehow rated as just a three-star out. Buxton has made more unlikely catches and lots of 'em. With 19 four-star outs and one five-star out, he's the guy tied with Betts for the MLB lead across those two categories.
Less visible this season has been Buxton's throwing arm, but it's definitely there. Per Adler, he placed in the top 10 among outfielders with an average of 94.8 mph on "competitive" throws last season. His best was a 99.4 mph seed that cut down Trout.
"It's near the top shelf," Twins manager Paul Molitor said of Buxton's arm, per Fabian Ardaya of MLB.com. "You're not going to see Mike Trout get thrown out too often on a base hit up the middle."
Also not so visible this season is Buxton's power, but it's there too. He may only have five homers, but those have averaged 105.4 mph in exit velocity and 426 feet in distance. The latter is elite territory.
Elsewhere in the American League Central, the Cleveland Indians have a center fielder who's a lot like Buxton. His name is Bradley Zimmer, and he's all types of awesome.
Kudos to Petriello for being first to highlight Zimmer as a legit case of a fabled "five-tool player." That encompasses running, fielding, throwing and hitting for power, and the 24-year-old does each of those things with the best of 'em.
His legs and arm are his most impressive assets. He sprints at an average of 29.8 feet per second, putting him behind only Hamilton and Buxton. And he's produced throws as hard as 96.6 mph and even 101.5 mph.
Zimmer's fielding and power don't stand out quite as much but shouldn't be downplayed. He's recorded four four-star outs despite only being in the majors since May 16. He's averaged 105.0 mph on his eight homers, peaking with a 112.2 mph clout that traveled 435 feet.
"Everybody talks about tools," Indians manager Terry Francona said in July, per William Kosileski of MLB.com. "He can show them in a number of ways, whether it's on the bases or hitting for power or making a catch up against the wall. It's pretty exciting to watch."
                                               
Data courtesy of Baseball Savant and Baseball Reference.


In December, 2014, the Washington Nationals, Tampa Bay Rays and San Diego Padres pulled off a three-team, 11-player deal.
In hindsight, the most relevant players involved were Trea Turner and Wil Myers—who left the Friars and Rays and headed for Washington and San Diego, respectively—and Steven Souza Jr., who went from the Nats to Tampa Bay.
At first blush, the trade was rightly regarded as among the most lopsided in recent memory. 
The Nationals got Turner, a speedy up-and-coming stud who finished second in National League Rookie of the Year balloting in 2016.
The Padres netted Myers, who blasted 28 home runs and made the All-Star team last season.
Souza, meanwhile, hit .225 and .247 in his first two seasons with Tampa Bay and underwent hip surgery in September 2016.
Now, suddenly, Souza is making the swap look far less egregious for the Rays. 

Through 107 games, he's slashing .267/.367/.510 with 24 home runs and boasts 3.3 WAR, per FanGraphs' calculation. 
He didn't qualify for the Midsummer Classic, but he should have if you ask his skipper.
"We've been talking about All-Stars a lot lately, and he was probably right on the borderline of putting together an All-Star first half," said Rays manager Kevin Cash, per Roger Mooney of the Tampa Bay Times. "What he's done offensively, defensively, I don't know where we'd be without him."
Here's what Tampa Bay has done with Souza: Amass a 58-57 record, which puts it just one game off the pace for the second American League wild-card slot.
Not bad for baseball's perennial small-market underdogs, who are duking it out with the big-spending New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox out East.
If you're looking for the key to Souza's success, it's plate discipline. 
The 28-year-old has hiked his walk rate from 6.6 percent in 2016 to 12.7 percent this year, while shaving his strikeout rate from 34 percent to 28.7 percent. He's also making hard contact 36 percent of the time, compared to 32.4 percent last season.
On defense, meanwhile, he makes plays like this:
On Sunday, he launched a walk-off home run against the Milwaukee Brewers that left his bat at 113.9 mph, the hardest-hit home run by a Rays player in the Statcast era, according to MLB.com's Connor Mount. 
"In those situations, I've really just tried to stick with my approach and hit nice line drives up the middle, and whatever happens, happens," Souza said after the epic dinger, per Mount.
Those are the type of platitudes you expect from an elite player, which Souza is fast becoming.
Opponents are taking notice, as SB Nation's Joshua Morgan explained on Monday:
"Souza is being shown the respect you would expect of one of the best performers this year. Pitchers are throwing almost five percent fewer pitches in the zone and 10 percent fewer first pitch strikes. This has led to Souza being in a hitters count for 31.7 percent of pitches he's faced."
Turner has been sidelined since late June by a fractured wrist. Myers is hitting .174 since the All-Star break. Suddenly, Souza looks like the best player in that maybe-not-so-lopsided 2014 trade.

That could change. Turner may yet blossom into a perennial All-Star, for example. Myers has flashed MVP potential. These things are always in flux.
Likewise, the Rays might not catch New York and Boston in the AL East, rendering Souza's exploits a mere footnote.
For now, though, he's riding high—lighting up Statcast, convincingly embodying the role of a player on the rise and bringing Tampa Bay with him.
            
All statistics current as of Wednesday and courtesy of MLB.com and Baseball-Reference unless otherwise noted.

Mid-August is upon us—the part of the MLB campaign when the cream rises to the top and the dregs sink to the bottom.
That's especially true for the game's highest-paid players, who are under extra pressure to perform as the schedule dwindles and the lights get brighter.
Some have been doing it all year and will continue doing so, barring injury; others, not so much.
Let's look at five struggling/injured stars for whom it's put-up-or-shut-up time, keeping a few factors in mind:

At 59-56, the Seattle Mariners hold the second wild-card slot in the American League entering play Thursday.
However, if they're going to qualify for the postseason for the first time since 2001—let alone make a deep October push—they'll need more from ace Felix Hernandez.
The 2010 AL Cy Young Award winner owns a 4.28 ERA across 73.2 innings and landed on the disabled list on Tuesday with right-shoulder bursitis, per MLB.com's Alex Simon.
He's making $26.857 million this season and is owed more than $50 million over the next three seasons, including a $1 million club option for 2020 if Hernandez spends more than 130 straight days on the disabled list for the right elbow issues that recently plagued him.
At the rate he's going, that's not out of the realm of possibility for 31-year-old King Felix.

With the best record in baseball at 80-33, the Los Angeles Dodgers are cruising toward their first pennant and World Series win since 1988.
Veteran first baseman Adrian Gonzalez has been the forgotten man on offense, though.
The five-time All-Star has been limited to 49 games by a back injury, and he has been supplanted on the Dodgers' depth chart by potent rookie Cody Bellinger.
When he has played, Gonzalez has posted a career-worst .643 OPS with only one home run.
At 35 years old, it's possible Gonzalez is on the downslope. He hasn't logged an inning since June 11. Then again, he's earning $22 million and change this season and next.
If and when he returns, L.A. will be compelled to find a place for him, though he'll likely be shelved against left-handed pitchers, per Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times. 
The Dodgers don't need Gonzalez to win a title, but Gonzalez needs a resurgent stretch run to remain relevant.

The New York Yankees went into buy mode at the non-waiver trade deadline, acquiring relievers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle and slugger Todd Frazier from the Chicago White Sox, plus right-hander Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics. 
Any hope for an extended postseason run, however, rests on the shoulders of Masahiro Tanaka.
The Japanese stud hasn't delivered for most of the season, posting a 4.92 ERA and 8-10 record in 133.2 innings. 
He's been better of late, posting sub-4.00 ERAs in June, July and August. He lasted just four innings in Wednesday's start against the Toronto Blue Jays, however, and yielded three runs and five walks.
The Yanks offense saved him with an 11-run outburst. But Tanaka—who is earning $22 million this season and will make $45 million over the next two years unless he opts out—needs to do better.

In December 2015, the Chicago Cubs inked outfielder Jason Heyward to an eight-year, $184 million pact.
In his first season with the North Siders, Heyward hit .230 with a .631 OPS, though he did deliver an inspirational speech in the Cubs' pivotal Game 7 win over the Cleveland Indians. 
This year, Heyward's numbers have ticked upward, but his .258 average and .710 OPS aren't in line with his paycheck, even considering his Gold-Glove-worthy defense.
On the plus side, manager Joe Maddon sung Heyward's praises from an attitude standpoint.
"Watch him coming off the field," Maddon said, per Gordon Wittenmyer of the Chicago Sun-Times. "He's high-fiving batboys. I love that stuff. You need that unifying force. He's a force multiplier."
After a sluggish start, the Cubbies are finally in first place in the NL Central. Their hopes for a repeat hinge on a number of factors, including a late-season surge by Heyward, and not only in the batboy-high-fiving department.

David Price is earning $30 million this season. He'll make the same amount in 2018, after which he can opt out and test the market, or he could settle in and make $127 million through 2022.
What are the Boston Red Sox getting for their money? Not enough.
Last season, in the first year of his contract, Price surrendered an MLB-leading 227 hits and posted a 3.99 ERA. 
In 2017, he sports a 3.82 ERA in 66 innings and has missed significant time with elbow problems.
The 31-year-old southpaw is throwing from 90 feet, but his ability to be a healthy, effective part of Boston's possible playoff rotation is in serious doubt.
At this point, there's as much chance Price will be a $30 million autumn spectator as that he'll lead the Sox to the October promised land.
                  
All statistics current as of Wednesday and courtesy of MLB.com and Baseball-Reference.

Tampa Bay Rays pitcher Jake Odorizzi suffered a foot injury Wednesday against the Boston Red Sox during his first start since coming off the disabled list.
Sean McAdam of BostonSportsJournal.com noted Odorizzi's X-rays were negative and deemed the setback a right foot contusion. It "looked a lot worse at the time," McAdam wrote, while noting the pitcher is considered day-to-day.
According to Rob Bradford of WEEI, Boston's Eduardo Nunez hit Odorizzi with a line drive in the fifth inning, causing the injury.
The right-hander was helped off the field and replaced by Dan Jennings in Boston's 8-2 victory. Odorizzi was charged with one earned run in four-plus innings of work, while Jennings allowed four earned runs in an inning.
Bill Baer of NBC Sports noted Odorizzi was just activated from a stint on the disabled list with a lower-back strain. He has a 4.38 ERA, 1.28 WHIP and 84 strikeouts in 98.2 innings and hasn't been the same force he was last year when he had a 3.69 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 166 strikeouts in 187.2 innings.
Tampa Bay is likely relieved to hear he is just day-to-day considering it is chasing the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees in the American League East. It is also a game behind the Seattle Mariners for the final wild-card spot and could use Odorizzi healthy in the rotation as he strives to rediscover last year's form during a pennant race.
Here's our little hero, the Rally Cat (although the grounds crew guy might say differently). #STLCards https://t.co/OrR2IFAv8d
St. Louis Cardinals fans who consider themselves superstitious may soon embrace the idea of the "Rally Cat." 
With the bases loaded and the Cardinals trailing the Kansas City Royals 5-4 in the bottom of the sixth inning of Wednesday's contest at Busch Stadium, St. Louis catcher Yadier Molina had his at-bat interrupted when an adorable creature began a journey through the outfield. 
So the cat has to be named Yadi now, right? #RallyCat https://t.co/ZVf33Hsm4Q
The feline made it to the warning track before being captured by a member of the grounds crew. Unfortunately, the crew member received a few nibbles for his trouble as he carried the cat away from the action. 
Molina clearly didn't mind having some time to think about his plate appearance, as he belted a grand slam to give the hosts an 8-5 lead. 
The Cardinals may want to name their new friend: 
What happened right after the cat ran on the field? Yadi hit a #papaslam.

Can you say #RallyCat? https://t.co/wK9kKiGZHN https://t.co/LjIkXAecSk
Update: The kitty has been taken away from the ballpark, hopefully to be given an award for assisting Molina before he cleared the bases:  
Update No. 2: The Cardinals released a strange statement regarding the cat's whereabouts on Thursday:
Looks like #rallycat will be taken away in that crate #STLCards #Busch https://t.co/C5QsOoNYwn
#STLCards official statement on the #RallyCat: https://t.co/rCimmnq6hO

[Twitter]

Jay Bruce is on the move once again after the New York Mets traded the outfielder to the Cleveland Indians, the Mets announced. 
Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports first reported the news, and Passan noted the Indians will take on all of his salary. Joel Sherman of the New York Post reported the Mets got minor league pitcher Ryder Ryan in return. 
This comes after Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported the Indians were working on a deal to land the outfielder.
The 30-year-old player spent the first nine years of his career with the Cincinnati Reds but has now been traded in each of the past two seasons.
Bruce is known to be a streaky hitter, and he showed as much in his time with the Mets. He struggled mightily after joining the Mets on a deadline deal last year, hitting just .219 with a .294 on-base percentage and eight home runs in 50 games. He also went 0-for-3 with a strikeout in the winner-take-all Wild Card Game against the San Francisco Giants, which the Mets lost.
While there was speculation he would be dealt again in the offseason, the team instead picked up his $13 million option for 2017, and it paid off at the start of the year. The left-hander has hit .258 in 102 games this season with 29 home runs and 75 RBI.
With New York struggling with injuries and falling far out of contention, however, it was time to deal him to a squad that could use an offensive upgrade.
Bruce has ranked among the best sluggers in baseball throughout his career, hitting 233 home runs in his time with the Reds before his recent stretch with the Mets. At his best, he can be a game-changing player in the middle of the lineup.
Although there is always concern his streakiness can go the other way, the Indians added a valuable commodity as they look to end the 2017 season on a high note.   
#TrustTheProcess https://t.co/bnVPXH0Xjp
On Wednesday, the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim defeated the Baltimore Orioles 5-1 at Angel Stadium before embarking on a road trip ahead of a series versus the Seattle Mariners. 
It appears the Angels are traveling in style. 
Los Angeles outfielder Mike Trout shared pictures of he and other teammates rocking some of their favorite pro basketball jerseys before the players boarded the plane en route to Seattle:
Seattle ✈️✈️✈️✈️!!! https://t.co/XhDGKTXOpP
Who's your starting 5? 🏀 https://t.co/Ia2a1SkWm2
The Angels are not the first team to play dress-up at the start of a road trip. This past May, members of the Chicago Cubs, including manager Joe Maddon, wore suits (and even wigs) similar to those seen in the movie Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy. 
Trout sported a Ben Simmons Philadelphia 76ers jersey to represent his favorite team. The 26-year-old playfully recruited Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James to join the Sixers in July, and we can't help but wonder if a customized "James" Philadelphia jersey would've been the better choice for the occasion. 
[Twitter]

An MRI on Wednesday revealed no new damage on the arthritic right knee of New York Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia, but it remains to be seen whether he will take the mound Sunday against the rival Boston Red Sox.
The Associated Press (h/t ESPN.com) reported the news, noting Sabathia was removed from Tuesday's loss to the Toronto Blue Jays after a mere three innings. Manager Joe Girardi said a decision will be made on Friday about Sabathia's next start.
"The key for him has been bringing stability back to the knee, and the brace has been a big part of that," Girardi said, per the AP. "But when you're landing and you have pain every pitch, you're going to have a hard time. That's what we saw last night, so we've got to knock that out."
According to the AP, Sabathia has worn a knee brace since the 2015 season.
The southpaw is a six-time All-Star and won the 2007 American League Cy Young but hasn't been the same dominant force this season he was in his prime. He has a 4.05 ERA, 1.31 WHIP and 80 strikeouts in 102.1 innings for the second-place Yankees.
The Yankees are four games back of the Red Sox in the AL East, and Sunday's contest will likely be a critical one. Girardi said southpaw Jordan Montgomery is the most likely candidate to toe the rubber if Sabathia cannot pitch.

Baltimore Orioles outfielder Joey Rickard exited Wednesday's 5-1 defeat to the Los Angeles Angels after getting hit in the head by a pitch from Angels starter Troy Scribner.
According to MLB.com, Scribner's pitch clocked in at 88.5 mph.
Craig Gentry replaced Rickard and finished the game in right field.
The Orioles' head athletic trainer, Richie Bancells, examined Rickard on the field, and MLB.com's Brittany Ghiroli described the 26-year-old as "awake and alert" as he left the field.
After the game, Orioles manager Buck Showalter said on MASN "all indications are good right now" regarding Rickard and that the team will re-evaluate him Thursday.
Rickard entered Wednesday batting .256 with four home runs and 18 RBI. According to FanGraphs, he's tied for eighth in WAR (0.6) among Orioles hitters with at least 200 plate appearances.
Wednesday wrapped up Baltimore's three-game series with the Angels, with the Orioles dropping their last two. They return to the diamond Thursday for a four-game set with the Oakland Athletics.

The Chicago Cubs announced catcher Willson Contreras left Wednesday's game against the San Francisco Giants with a right leg injury.
Bob Nightengale of USA Today noted Contreras was helped off the field after the setback.
Contreras was attempting to beat out a ground ball and started limping before reaching first base, grabbing his right hamstring in the process. According to Nightengale, Contreras will undergo an MRI Thursday.
The setback comes at a particularly difficult time for the Cubs as they attempt to tread water atop the tight National League Central race. Contreras has carried their offense for extended stretches since the All-Star break, and Major League Baseball just named him the National League Player of the Week.
Contreras posted a .454 batting average, five home runs and 13 RBI during the stretch which earned him the award, cementing himself as a force in the middle of the order.
The one silver lining for Chicago is the fact it traded for veteran backstop Alex Avila in a swap with the Detroit Tigers before the non-waiver trade deadline. While Avila isn't quite the potent bat Contreras is on a daily basis, he slashed .274/.394/.475 with 11 home runs and 32 RBI in 77 games for Detroit before the trade.
The Cubs can also rely on other power hitters such as Anthony Rizzo and Kris Bryant to anchor their offense while Contreras is out, but they saw their narrow NL Central lead shrink to one game over the Milwaukee Brewers with Wednesday's loss to San Francisco.
Losing Contreras for significant time in the thick of the pennant race would be a critical blow to the defending World Series champions.

The prospective ownership group led by Quogue Capital founder Wayne Rothbaum and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush has reportedly dropped out of the bidding for the Miami Marlins, according to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman. 
Two groups, including one led by former New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, are still bidding for the South Florida franchise after owner Jeffrey Loria put the team up for sale prior to the 2017 season. 
Heyman reported Wednesday that Bush's group didn't appear to be front-runners since it was only comfortable bidding $1 billion—$200 million below Loria's asking price. 
A group headed by Miami businessman Jorge Mas has emerged as the other finalist.  
Heyman added Loria would like to complete the sale "within the next week or two," but it remains unclear if that goal can be achieved. 
As things stand, Jeter's group is said to be bidding $1.2 billion. However, a June 22 report from the Associated Press (via ESPN.com) cited a source who said Jeter told Major League Baseball he did not yet have the funds necessary to meet the steep cost. 
On Wednesday, Heyman cited sources who said it's still believed that Jeter has not pooled together the assets necessary to close a deal. 
Mas, meanwhile, has reportedly bid $1.17 billion and is seeking an exclusive negotiating window. 

Miami Marlins star right fielder Giancarlo Stanton slugged his fifth home run in as many games Tuesday against the Washington Nationals.
It was his only hit on the day but provided a crucial three RBI in the team's 7-3 win. The round-tripper also marked the 38th of his 2017 campaign, moving him within four of Gary Sheffield's Marlins record 42 homers in 1996, per ESPN Stats & Info.
The four-bagger also set a career-high for Stanton. He set his previous high of 37 in both 2012 and 2014 and has topped 30 home runs four times in his career (including 2017).
The biggest culprit behind Stanton's struggles to top 30 home runs has been the injury bug. He's matched or surpassed 125 games just twice thus far in his career. The 27-year-old slugger is on pace to top the milestone again this season for the first time since 2014.
Despite a limited number of games, Stanton has been effective when on the field. He hasn't hit fewer than 22 home runs in a season, and his career low came when he played in just 100 games as a rookie in 2010. Other than that season, his lowest output was 24 in 2013.
Stanton's current output paces him to easily surpass 50 homer runs and could allow him to near 60 if he continues his recent hot streak. He's slugged 12 homers since the All-Star break, leading the majors by two over Chicago Cubs catcher Willson Contreras and Texas Rangers infielder Joey Gallo.
Though the Marlins own the second-best record in the NL East, the club remains well out of contention for a wild-card berth. Regardless, Stanton and company will return to the diamond Wednesday evening to play the third of a four-game series against the Nationals. He will attempt to add to the total, squaring off against southpaw Gio Gonzalez.
MLB and MLBPA announce the creation of Players Weekend, set to take place Aug. 25-27: https://t.co/tjqXALPWcf https://t.co/Qc9cswOkte
MLB and the MLB Players Association have announced the launch of what they call a "player-focused field festival," and the guys taking part are already having a blast with it. 
Players will get a chance to cut loose with their gear, rocking alternate, youth-league-inspired uniforms with self-chosen nicknames on the back.
A few of the players' choices have leaked, leaving fans to speculate on back stories behind monikers like "Stickman," "Flaco Fuerte," "Tsunami" and "La Potencia," to name a few: 
Big Maple. Boomstick. Don't You Know.

The nicknames come out for #PlayersWeekend, Aug 25-27. https://t.co/nNG5hO15Wd https://t.co/COXwNiM0gO

Players get to have nicknames during Player's Weekend and look at Kyle Seager's choice 😂 https://t.co/cYmjYeyi1B


Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported Wednesday that the Detroit Tigers placed second baseman Ian Kinsler on revocable waivers.
Any team is free to claim Kinsler, at which point the Tigers can pull him back and negotiate a trade or keep him. Kinsler can also be traded to any club if he passes through waivers and will be postseason eligible for the acquiring team if a deal goes through on or before August 31.
The 35-year-old is struggling to the tune of a .245 batting average, 10 home runs and 30 RBI in 2017.
He is a four-time All-Star, however, and put up big-time production in 2016 with a .288 batting average, 28 homers and 83 RBI. He also earned his first career Gold Glove.
Kinsler's contract has a club option for 2018, which means a team could acquire him as a rental and allow him to hit free agency during the offseason.
The Tigers are 51-61, and with a playoff push looking unlikely, dealing Kinsler rather than potentially losing him for nothing as a free agent is an attractive option.
 

Cleveland Indians ace Corey Kluber pitched a complete game Tuesday, giving up just three hits and one earned run while striking out 11 batters during the 4-1 victory over the Rockies. In doing so, he became the first pitcher in MLB history to strike out at least 10 batters in each of his five starts following the All-Star break, per the Elias Sports Bureau.
Kluber took home the Cy Young award back in 2014 by finishing 18-9 with a 2.44 ERA and 1.10 WHIP. He struggled to keep that pace over the next two seasons but still combined for a respectable 27-25 record with a 3.32 ERA and 1.06 WHIP.
The 31-year-old right-hander has bounced back in a big way this season, posting numbers that rival that of his Cy Young campaign. Through 19 appearances, he's 10-3 with a 2.65 ERA and 0.91 WHIP. 
Much of his success this season—evidenced by Tuesday's performance and his post-All-Star break record—has to do with his uptick in strikeouts and decrease in hits allowed. He's actually performing better in both categories than he did during his Cy Young year, lowering his hits-per-nine-innings from 7.9 to 6.3 and raising his strikeouts-per-nine-innings from 10.3 to 12.4.
The All-Star will look to continue his dominant season Sunday afternoon when he's slated to toe the rubber against the Tampa Bay Rays.

The Chicago Cubs bullpen took another hit with right-hander Koji Uehara's placement on the 10-day disabled list Wednesday with a neck injury. 
Per USA Today's Bob Nightengale, the Cubs called up Justin Grimm from Triple-A to take Uehara's spot on the 25-man roster. 
Uehara was removed in the bottom of the seventh during Tuesday's game against the San Francisco Giants with an apparent injury after allowing a single to Pablo Sandoval. 
Patrick Mooney of Comcast SportsNet noted Uehara has been dealing with stiffness "on the right side/lower part of his neck for several days now."
The 42-year-old is in his first season with the Cubs and is posting a 3.55 ERA with 45 strikeouts in 38 innings. 
Uehara is not far removed from being one of the top relievers in the majors. While he had solid runs with the Baltimore Orioles and Texas Rangers, the Japanese star was at his best with the Boston Red Sox.
Although he joined the team at 38 years old, he earned both Cy Young and MVP votes in 2013 while garnering an All-Star nod in 2014. He was a major factor in Boston's run to the 2013 World Series title, winning ALCS MVP that season.
Unfortunately, injuries have limited him over the past couple of years. After pitching at least 64 innings in his first two seasons with the Red Sox, he failed to top 50 frames in either of the last two. A pectoral strain kept him off the mound for a good portion of 2016.
He got a fresh start with the Cubs after signing a one-year deal worth $6 million. However, he is once again dealing with an injury that could lead to another extended absence.
The Cubs still have Wade Davis, Carl Edwards Jr., Hector Rondon and Pedro Strop in the back of their bullpen, but depth is an issue that manager Joe Maddon has to deal with now that Uehara is on the shelf.   

Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said Tuesday ace Clayton Kershaw is "close" to returning to the team's rotation after a stint on the disabled list with a back injury.
Roberts noted Kershaw will throw a bullpen session in the coming days before deciding the next step in his recovery, per ESPN.com. There's still no official timetable for his return despite the improved outlook following his Tuesday throwing session, though.
"He's close," Roberts said. "I think it just makes sense for us to be cautious. We just don't want to put ourselves in any situation where there's a setback. The calendar's on our side. I know that Clayton resists that. But I think as an organization it's best for him and best for all of us to err on the side of caution."
Kershaw hasn't made a start since July 23 when he left his outing against the Atlanta Braves after two scoreless innings.
The 29-year-old seven-time All-Star selection and three-time Cy Young Award winner was his typically dominant self before the injury. He's posted a 2.04 ERA and 0.88 WHIP with 168 strikeouts in 141.1 innings across 21 starts in 2017.
On Tuesday, Pedro Moura of the Los Angeles Times passed along comments from Kershaw, who said he's recovered and is now focused on getting his stamina back.
"I feel healthy," he said. "I think now it's just a matter of building back up at a good pace and, obviously, understanding where we're at and the timeline and all that stuff. I don't feel like I've lost much. But, being a starter, you've gotta build your innings back and all that. So, it's gonna take a little bit of time to do that."
Los Angeles can afford to let him take it slow. It owns a 79-33 record, eight games better than any other team in baseball, and should cruise to a postseason berth.
The big-spending Dodgers also made a bold move ahead of the non-waiver trade deadline to acquire Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers. The deal bolstered an already rock-solid rotation and gave the team an insurance policy should its ace have any setbacks.
That said, adding a healthy Kershaw to an already formidable roster would make L.A. even more of a favorite heading into the playoffs.

The start of Major League Baseball's free-agent signing period is still months away, but buzz is already starting to circulate the rumor mill regarding some of the biggest hitters slated to hit the market this winter. 
So as the second half of the season starts to wind down and pennant races come into clear view, here's a look at a few notable outfielders whose situations will be worth monitoring once the offseason gets underway.
As a bit of housekeeping, bear in mind predictions were made with more general parameters in mind, since interested teams won't make themselves known until hot stove season ramps up.  
          
J.D. Martinez
J.D. Martinez should cash in when the offseason starts. 
Although he's slumped (.226/.328/.623) since getting dealt from the Detroit Tigers to the Arizona Diamondbacks in advance of the non-waiver trade deadline, the 29-year-old right fielder is a power-packed force who can change the complexity of a lineup when he's penciled into the heart of the order. 
Dating back to his debut in 2011, Martinez has posted 129 home runs and an .837 OPS. During that seven-season stretch, those marks rank 20th and 15th among all outfielders, according to FanGraphs. 
Those are numbers worth paying for, and they should vault Martinez into an esteemed financial tier when all is said and done. 
As things stand, Martinez's $11.7 million salary ranks 25th among outfielders. 
Based on his pure power numbers and lifetime .282 batting average, Martinez stands to crack the top 15 average annual salaries among outfielders at a minimum. 
In fact, he could vault as high as the top 10 if he's able to crank things up as the postseason approaches. 
"There's always that little bit of added pressure or stress that goes into it, because everybody's always talking about it," Martinez said of his impending free agency, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale. "Everybody reinforces it on you. I'm just trying not to think about it and just play the game.
"But I think it definitely helps going to a contender."
Martinez remains something of a net-negative defensively, but it shouldn't be hard for power-hungry teams to overlook those shortcomings and open their wallets to land arguably the best position player on the market. 
Prediction: Martinez garners a multi-year deal that pays north of $15 million annually
          
Justin Upton
Justin Upton is playing on a pseudo-expiring deal through the 2021 season since his mammoth six-year, $132.7 million deal with the Tigers includes a player option each of the next four seasons. 
Just don't expect him to hit free agency anytime soon. 
While the 29-year-old could conceivably garner another major long-term commitment if he hits the open market since he's slashing .315/.411/.630 with a 1.042 OPS, six home runs and 24 RBI since the All-Star break, passing up a guaranteed $22.1 million payday doesn't appear to be in the cards. 
FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported in May that Upton declining his player option at this juncture "seems beyond remote" and noted that one general manager told him it's "not happening." 
Upton's mammoth annual salary ranks third among outfielders behind Jason Heyward and Yoenis Cespedes, and that figure may be hard for the Tigers to swallow through 2021. 
However, that's a long way from now. 
With Upton still producing like one of the game's premier corner outfielders at the plate, the Tigers shouldn't have any qualms about Upton returning to the fold as a centerpiece in 2018 and beyond.  
Prediction: Upton exercises his 2018 player option and returns to Detroit
        
Jay Bruce
The New York Mets couldn't find a taker for Jay Bruce at the non-waiver trade deadline despite the team's best efforts. 
According to Newsday's Marc Carig, there's a reason for that. Citing rival executives, Carig reported Bruce wasn't coveted by rival teams because his "worth is rooted primarily in hitting for power at a time when teams generally have placed more of an emphasis on speed and defense."
On the surface, that assessment seems fair. Bruce owns a .249 lifetime average and .319 on-base percentage. 
That said, his defense has been solid all season long and can't be overlooked as he prepares to become a free agent. 
According to FanGraphs, Bruce currently ranks tied for second with Aaron Judge among all right fielders with seven defensive runs saved this season. The only player with a superior mark is Mookie Betts, who is blowing his positional peers out of the water with 30 DRS.  
"I'm not sitting here saying that I'm Jason Heyward or Yasiel Puig or Mookie Betts or anything like that," Bruce said, per Carig. "But that’s a bit of a broad stroke, a lazy approach to judging me as a defender."
Bruce figures to have a hard time matching the $13 million he's earning in 2017 once he's eligible to field offers, but a multi-year contract in the range of $8-10 million a year is reasonable for a power hitter and fielder of his ilk. 
Prediction: Bruce re-signs with the Mets on a two-year deal  
         
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com unless noted otherwise and current through Monday, Aug. 7. 

Fact: Indians pitcher Corey Kluber had his second straight complete game with 10 or more strikeouts on Tuesday night, becoming the first pitcher since Madison Bumgarner in 2015 to accomplish the feat.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

With the non-waiver trade deadline passed and August waiver trade activity always unpredictable, the next surefire MLB shake-up will come when rosters expand in September.
That's when we'll get a chance to see some of the game's top prospects make their big league debuts, whether it's a contender looking for a spark or a rebuilding team assessing their in-house talent while looking ahead to next year.
But why wait until September to promote a guy who's ready now?
The obvious answer is that teams don't want to start a player's service time clock any sooner than they need to, especially in the case of those aforementioned rebuilding teams.
However, we've decided to throw caution to the wind and highlight one prospect that each MLB team should promote immediately.
      
To be eligible for inclusion, a player must not have passed rookie-eligibility limits (130 AB, 50 IP, 45 days on roster).

Baltimore Orioles: RP Stefan Crichton
Stefan Crichton has the prototypical stuff to succeed in the late innings with a fastball that tops out at 97 mph and a plus slider, and that's played well in the upper minors this year.
The 25-year-old has pitched to a 2.18 ERA and 1.02 WHIP while striking out 41 batters in 41.1 innings and limiting opposing hitters to a .194 batting average. If the Orioles decide to move Zach Britton and/or Brad Brach this offseason, he could step into a prominent role next year alongside Mychal Givens.
      
Boston Red Sox: OF Bryce Brentz
A first-round pick in 2010, Bryce Brentz has always shown intriguing power at the minor league level dating back to a 30-homer performance in his first full pro season.
However, he's never gotten much of a chance at the MLB level, hitting .287 with a .690 OPS and one home runs in 90 plate appearances.
The 28-year-old is hitting .278/.347/.544 with 17 doubles and 25 home runs for Triple-A Pawtucket this season and could get a chance to audition to replace Chris Young as the team's fourth outfielder.
      
New York Yankees: 3B Miguel Andujar
After showing flashes in past seasons, everything has finally clicked for Miguel Andujar this year as he's hitting .318/.350/.514 with 33 doubles, 14 home runs and 71 RBI at Double-A and Triple-A.
The 22-year-old went 3-for-4 with a double and four RBI in his MLB debut on June 28 before being quickly returned to the minors, and that only adds to his intrigue as a potential late-season roster addition.
With Matt Holliday struggling mightily since the All-Star break with a .136 average and .362 OPS, Andujar could provide a spark at DH while also occasionally spelling Todd Frazier at the hot corner.
      
Tampa Bay Rays: SP Brent Honeywell
There might not be a more MLB-ready pitching prospect in the minors right now than Brent Honeywell.
The 22-year-old is 12-8 with a 3.55 ERA, 1.28 WHIP and 155 strikeouts in 119 innings between Double-A and Triple-A. With smooth, repeatable mechanics and a polished five-pitch repertoire, he has little left to prove in the minors.
The Rays are still very much in the running for a wild-card spot and Honeywell could be the answer to shoring up the No. 5 starter spot, which has been a revolving door due in large part to the struggles of Blake Snell.
      
Toronto Blue Jays: OF Anthony Alford
Anthony Alford was slowed by a knee injury and a concussion last season and his progress was derailed once again this year by a broken hamate bone, but his future remains incredibly bright.
A former standout on the gridiron, he's shown a more polished game than expected since turning his full attention to the diamond, and he has a real chance to be a perennial 20/20 threat atop the lineup and a standout defender in the outfield.
The 23-year-old made his MLB debut earlier this year before suffering that hand injury, and with a .308/.400/.436 line in Double-A, he's ready for another look in the majors to see if he's ready for a significant role next season.

Chicago White Sox: SP Reynaldo Lopez
Since finally going all-in on a long-overdue rebuild, the White Sox have quickly amassed one of baseball's elite farm systems and that should mean a steady stream of high-end young talent arriving on the scene in the years to come.
After Yoan Moncada got the call last month, it looks like right-hander Reynaldo Lopez will be next notable prospect to arrive on the scene as he's scheduled to start in place of Mike Pelfrey Friday. But will he be up for the rest of the season?
Lopez, 23, has pitched to a 3.79 ERA, 1.24 WHIP and 131 strikeouts in 121 innings for Triple-A Charlotte. With a big fastball that can touch triple digits, a power curve and a changeup that has developed into a viable third offering, he should be able to stick as a starter.
      
Cleveland Indians: 3B/OF Yandy Diaz
Yandy Diaz was an under-the-radar signing for $300,000 as a Cuban defector in 2012 and he's displayed an advanced approach from the get-go en route to a .314 average and .413 on-base percentage over four minor league seasons.
The 26-year-old actually broke camp with the big league club in place of the injured Jason Kipnis, but he hit just .203 with a .486 OPS over 71 plate appearances before returning to the minors.
With the defensive versatility to play second base, third base and both corner outfield spots, he's a useful bench piece and capable of providing a professional at-bat if his minor league track record is any indication.
     
Detroit Tigers: RP Jairo Labourt
The Tigers acquired lefty Jairo Labourt from the Toronto Blue Jays as part of the David Price trade, and he's taken off since making the full-time move to the bullpen this season.
MLB.com wrote: "He's moving in the right direction and has the look of a future short reliever in the back end of a bullpen if he can keep finding the strike zone."
The 23-year-old touches 96 mph with his fastball and backs it with a swing-and-miss slider, helping him to post a 1.99 ERA, 1.01 WHIP and 11.2 strikeouts per nine innings in 38 appearances over three minor league levels.
      
Kansas City Royals: 1B/OF Ryan O'Hearn
The Royals have one of the thinnest farm systems in baseball—ranked No. 29 in our latest update—and a lot of their better prospects are still in the lower levels of the minors.
However, slugger Ryan O'Hearn tallied 32 doubles and 22 home runs between High-A and Double-A last season and he's continued to make noise this year in Triple-A with a .256/.328/.451 line that includes 25 doubles and 17 home runs.
Assuming Eric Hosmer walks in free agency, O'Hearn could be first in line to step into the starting first base job next season. Giving the 24-year-old a taste of the big leagues now would allow for further evaluation of his long-term potential.
      
Minnesota Twins: RP John Curtiss
John Curtiss is one of the fastest-rising relief pitching prospects in the league and appears ready to make the leap to the big league bullpen.
The 24-year-old has racked up 19 saves this season between Double-A and Triple-A, pitching to a 1.27 ERA and 0.94 WHIP with 12.4 K/9 and a .136 opponents' batting average.
Could he wind up being the replacement for departed veteran Brandon Kintzler in the closer's role?
MLB.com thinks so: "With an intense and serious personality on the mound, it wouldn't surprise anyone if the success he's had closing games in Double-A in 2017 translates to the same role in the big leagues."

Houston Astros: SP Rogelio Armenteros
With Francis Martes exhausting his prospect eligibility and David Paulino serving a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs, the Astros' current top-tier pitching prospects—guys like Franklin Perez, Forrest Whitley and J.B. Bukauskas—are still a few years away.
However, righty Rogelio Armenteros is one under-the-radar arm who could get the call soon.
The 23-year-old signed for a modest $40,000 bonus in 2014 after defecting from Cuba and has followed up a strong 2016 season with a smooth transition to the upper minors, posting a 2.28 ERA, 1.10 WHIP and 115 strikeouts in 98.2 innings. While his stuff isn't overpowering, he could contribute to the stretch run in a multi-inning, middle-relief role.
       
Los Angeles Angels: OF Cesar Puello
Cesar Puello was Baseball America's No. 77 prospect prior to the 2011 season when he was still just 20 years old and playing in the New York Mets organization.
Now 26, he's no longer considered a traditional prospect, but he still carries rookie eligibility and has been absolutely raking since opting out of a minor league deal with the Rangers and joining the Angels in June.
In over 200 plate appearances for Triple-A Salt Lake, he's hitting .397/.440/.620 with 26 extra-base hits and 13 stolen bases.
That's obviously not a huge sample size, but it's enough to provide some hope the Angels might have hit on a late bloomer.
       
Oakland Athletics: 2B Franklin Barreto
Veteran Jed Lowrie is quietly having a nice season for the Athletics, but with the club finally committing to a full rebuild, it's a surprise it hasn't already moved him to a contender.
Whether he's eventually dealt this month, traded during the offseason or simply has his $6 million option for 2018 declined this winter, all signs point to Franklin Barreto getting a crack at the everyday second base job next season.
The 21-year-old joined the A's as the prize of the Josh Donaldson deal, and with a .280/.328/.445 line and 34 extra-base hits in 426 plate appearances for Triple-A Nashville, he's ready for a long look on the MLB stage.
      
Seattle Mariners: RP Thyago Vieira
The Mariners plucked one flame thrower from the minor league ranks last season when Edwin Diaz jumped from Double-A to closing for the big league club.
Thyago Vieira could follow a similar path.
The 24-year-old possesses a legitimate 80-grade fastball that touches 102 mph, and both his curveball and his overall command have improved over the years.
The right-hander has posted a 3.50 ERA with 44 strikeouts in 46.1 innings this season, and after receiving a promotion to Triple-A on July 20, it might not be long before the native of Brazil is tossing in the majors.
       
Texas Rangers: 1B Ronald Guzman
Newcomer Willie Calhoun—who was the prize of the Yu Darvish deal—could get a look this September, but a more immediate call-up for the Rangers could be first baseman Ronald Guzman.
Signed for a $3.45 million bonus as part of the same international class as Nomar Mazara, Guzman looks ready for the next level with a .317/.387/.473 line that includes 19 doubles, 12 home runs and 57 RBI for Triple-A Round Rock.
With the Rangers rapidly slipping out of the postseason hunt, there's a chance veteran Mike Napoli could be on the move before the month is over. If he's dealt, all signs point to Guzman as the future at first base and that future could start soon.

Atlanta Braves: RP Akeel Morris
Akeel Morris spent most of July pitching out of the big league bullpen, compiling a 1.23 ERA with nine strikeouts in 7.1 innings spanning eight appearances.
The 24-year-old has the mid-90s fastball that most relievers these days possess, but he's a bit atypical in that he relies on a plus changeup as his best secondary offering, with a below-average slider to round out his repertoire.
Morris has setup man potential, and with Jim Johnson looking like a potential waiver trade candidate, he could step into a prominent role in the Atlanta bullpen down the stretch.
      
Miami Marlins: 3B Brian Anderson
The Marlins signed veteran Martin Prado to a three-year, $40 million extension late last season, but he's played just 37 games this season while nursing a knee injury.
Assuming he's back to full strength next season, prospect Brian Anderson would appear to be blocked at the hot corner. However, don't rule out a trade of either Prado or second baseman Dee Gordon this offseason, which would potentially open up a spot for the 24-year-old.
After a strong showing in the Arizona Fall League last year, Anderson sports an .826 OPS with 19 home runs and 71 RBI between Double-A and Triple-A this season. He's the best position-player prospect in the system and should be given every chance to seize an MLB job once he's deemed ready.
      
New York Mets: 1B Dominic Smith
With first baseman Lucas Duda traded to the Tampa Bay Rays and fellow top prospect Amed Rosario already promoted, it seems like only a matter of time before Dominic Smith makes his way to the big leagues.
The No. 11 pick in the 2013 draft has moved swiftly through the minors, reaching Triple-A this season, where he's hitting .329/.385/.519 with 34 doubles, 16 home runs and 75 RBI.
The 22-year-old has always shown good gap power, but with an uptick in his over-the-fence production, he's looking more and more like a future middle-of-the-order anchor. Throw in his plus glove and advanced approach, and it should be a relatively smooth transition to the next level.
       
Philadelphia Phillies: 1B Rhys Hoskins
It's important to take the stats posted at hitter-friendly Double-A Reading with a grain of salt, which is why a 38-homer performance from Rhys Hoskins a year ago didn't exactly send him soaring up prospect rankings.
However, the 24-year-old has managed to keep things rolling at the Triple-A level this season, hitting .280/.383/.571 with 28 home runs and nearly as many walks (64) as strikeouts (75).
With controllable slugger Tommy Joseph manning first base in the majors, the Phillies have recently moved Hoskins to left field in an effort to expedite his arrival in the majors. That's probably a pretty good indication his debut isn't far off.
      
Washington Nationals: RP Austin Adams
The Nationals are admittedly thin on MLB-ready minor league talent now that Erick Fedde has joined the starting rotation, but keep an eye on reliever Austin Adams.
The 26-year-old was acquired from the Los Angeles Angels during the offseason in the Danny Espinosa trade, and he's posted an eye-popping 74 strikeouts in 49.2 innings for Triple-A Syracuse.
However, he's also walked 6.3 batters per nine innings, which is the reason he's still in the minors. That's dropped to a slightly more palatable 4.3 BB/9 since the start of July, and at this point, he's at least worth a look as a low-leverage middle reliever.

Chicago Cubs: RP Dillon Maples
The Cubs signed Dillon Maples to a $2.5 million bonus as a 14th-round pick in 2011—still the largest bonus ever given to a player selected after the third round.
Control problems and some minor arm issues kept him from advancing beyond the High-A level in his first five pro seasons, but he's taken off this year and could be a legitimate X-factor down the stretch.
Still just 25, he's posted a 2.57 ERA and .198 opponents' batting average with 91 strikeouts in 56 innings while reaching Triple-A. He's still walking batters at a 4.8 BB/9 clip, but his stuff is electric with a fastball that touches triple digits, a wipeout slider and a nasty power curve.
MLB.com wrote: "If he can acquire even average control, he could become a closer. While that may be too much to ask, he has the pure stuff to help the Cubs in the near future."
       
Cincinnati Reds: RP Jimmy Herget
Jimmy Herget was a Futures Game participant this season, and it might not be long before he's suiting up in an MLB park once again.
The 23-year-old has drawn comparisons to Steve Cishek for his mix of stuff and deception, and the results have been impressive this season as he's racked up 22 saves with a 2.72 ERA, 1.11 WHIP and 10.9 K/9.
He might not have closer stuff at the next level, but he looks like a relatively safe bet to settle into a setup role and an August trade of Drew Storen could quickly open up a spot in the Cincinnati bullpen.
      
Milwaukee Brewers: CF Lewis Brinson
The Brewers have given Keon Broxton every opportunity to seize the center field job, but he's hitting just .223/.301/.433 and has been a 0.2 WAR player on the year.
It's time to give Lewis Brinson another shot.
The top prospect in the Milwaukee system and the prize of last summer's Jonathan Lucroy trade has made a pair of quick trips to the majors this year, hitting a dismal .106 with 17 strikeouts in 55 plate appearances.
However, that's done nothing to dampen his 30/30 upside and he has little left to prove in Triple-A, where he's batting .333/.403/.544 with 36 extra-base hits in 325 plate appearances.
       
Pittsburgh Pirates: C Elias Diaz
The Pirates have a $1.5 million option for next season on backup catcher Chris Stewart, who is hitting .170 with a .451 OPS in 95 plate appearances for a minus-0.2 WAR. He's an asset defensively, but it's hard to overlook an OPS+ of 20.
If the front office doesn't intend on exercising that option, it might as well cut ties with the veteran now and turn backup duties over to Elias Diaz the rest of the way.
The 26-year-old was once considered the catcher of the future in Pittsburgh. While he looks more like a career backup at this point, he does have some decent gap power and he's thrown out 44 percent of base stealers in Triple-A.
       
St. Louis Cardinals: SP Jack Flaherty
With a crowded outfield situation, there's no guarantee Magneuris Sierra, Harrison Bader or Tyler O'Neill will receive a promotion anytime soon for the Cardinals.
That leaves right-hander Jack Flaherty as perhaps the most likely to receive a call-up among the team's top prospects, though it might take an injury to one of the team's starters to provide such an opportunity.
The 21-year-old is enjoying a breakout season and he's shot up the prospect rankings. Splitting the season between Double-A and Triple-A, he's gone 11-3 with a 2.11 ERA, 1.00 WHIP and 127 strikeouts in 123.2 innings, so there's little left to prove in the minors.

Arizona Diamondbacks: RP Jimmie Sherfy
Honestly, it's a bit of a head-scratcher that Jimmie Sherfy hasn't already been called up to join the Diamondbacks bullpen.
The 25-year-old has been lights-out in Triple-A, posting a 2.25 ERA and 0.93 WHIP with a 55-to-8 strikeout-to-walk ratio in 44 innings. Armed with a live 70-grade fastball and a plus slider, he's the prototypical late-inning reliever.
MLB.com wrote: "He's just about ready to impact the big league bullpen, with the ceiling to close games at the highest level if he can continue to throw enough strikes."
       
Colorado Rockies: IF Ryan McMahon
Ryan McMahon saw his prospect star fade a bit last season, when he hit .242 in Double-A and saw his OPS drop from .892 to .724.
It turns out that was just a bump in the road, as he's reclaimed his top prospect status this year with a monster performance in the upper levels of the minors.
The 22-year-old is hitting .351/.399/.587 with 37 doubles, 19 home runs and 81 RBI, and he could be a legitimate X-factor in a super-utility role for the contending Rockies. He's capable of playing first, second and third base and could push Mark Reynolds for the starting first base job if the veteran's bat goes cold.
      
Los Angeles Dodgers: RP Walker Buehler
It looks like the Dodgers are prepping Walker Buehler for a late-season role in the bullpen as he's begun transitioning to relief work since being promoted to Triple-A.
A candidate to go No. 1 overall in the 2015 draft, he instead slipped to the Dodgers at No. 24 when it was revealed that he would need Tommy John surgery.
As a result, the 23-year-old entered the season with just five professional innings under his belt, but he's returned strong and skyrocketed through the system as a result.
Buehler has legitimate ace upside and there's little question that his future is in the rotation. That won't stop the Dodgers from taking advantage of his potential as a reliever this season, though, and his stuff could prove to be unhittable in short stints.
       
San Diego Padres: 3B Christian Villanueva
A former top prospect in the Cubs system, Christian Villanueva was non-tendered after suffering a broken leg in spring training that wound up costing him the entire 2016 season.
The rebuilding Padres took a flier on the 26-year-old this past offseason, and it's a move that could pay dividends as he's returned healthy with a .301/.377/.544 line that includes 17 doubles, 18 home runs and 70 RBI for Triple-A El Paso.
It's all about talent evaluation right now for a team like the Padres, and there's no reason not to give Villanueva a look as a potential diamond in the rough.
        
San Francisco Giants: RP Reyes Moronta
Reyes Moronta announced himself as a prospect to watch last season, when he saved 14 games with a 2.59 ERA, 1.07 WHIP and 93 strikeouts in 59 innings for High-A San Jose.
MLB.com wrote: "If he can throw more strikes and refine his slider into a plus pitch, he could develop into a closer at the big league level."
For now, his 70-grade fastball and improving breaking ball has continued to play in the upper levels of the minors, and he could be ready to audition for a regular bullpen gig in 2018.
       
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and MiLB.com, unless otherwise noted.

The New York Yankees are still waiting to reap the rewards of a major overhaul.
Two days before beginning a three-game slate against the Boston Red Sox, the Bronx Bombers trail their nemesis by three games in the American League East. Acquiring Tommy Kahnle, David Robertson, Todd Frazier, Jaime Garcia and Sonny Gray hasn't counteracted Eduardo Nunez impersonating Alex Rodriguez for Boston.
New York's path to the division crown mainly relies on patience and better fortune. A plus-113 run differential represents the American League's second-best mark behind the Houston Astros. According to FanGraphs, that scoring margin gives them 67 expected wins, making them baseball's unluckiest squad at 59-52. 
A 12-20 record in one-run games explains this discrepancy, but those struggles are tough to understand. While luck plays a big role, bullpens are the best way to ensure success in air-tight encounters. Now boasting baseball's deepest and fiercest relief unit, the Yankees should reverse this trend.
But these are the Yankees. After hearing one fan at Yankee Stadium call Aaron Judge a bum following a strikeout, this writer has a hard time believing followers will sit back and wait for positive regression to work its magic. So let's take a proactive approach and see what roster moves they can make to finish strong.

This section would have encourage the Yankees to bench Holliday before the veteran designated hitter landed on the disabled list with a left lumbar strain. They shouldn't save his seat while he's sidelined.
The 37-year-old was hitting .136 (11-for-81) in 20 second-half games before moving to the injury report. His season slash line cratered to .229/.319/.430, middling rates for a designated hitter. Besides, a younger and superior replacement is close to taking back his job.
Holliday's plate appearances should soon be consumed by Aaron Hicks, who is currently rehabbing in Triple-A. An oblique injury interrupted a breakout campaign, during which the 27-year-old was batting .290/.398/.515 with 2.7 WAR. He'll join a crowded outfield which should rotate DH duties.
At best, Holliday should serve the short stick of a first-base platoon with Chase Headley. Since Headley has hit .292 against righties but .223 versus lefties, Garrett Cooper has infrequently sent him to the bench.
A timeshare with Jacoby Ellsbury, leaving Hicks, Judge and Brett Gardner in the outfield, would also work. The left-handed Ellsbury has held his own (.268/.353/.405) against opposite-handed pitchers.
Perhaps Greg Bird will also return to the fold. According to YES Network's Meredith Marakovits, he expects to resume on-field activities this week before commencing a rehab assignment. The Yankees, however, shouldn't count on someone last seen hitting .100 (6-for-60). Last month, per NJ.com's Brendan Kuty, the young first baseman said that "I feel pain in everything I do."
There's no room for him as more than a September call-up looking to prove he's healthy for 2018. Playing Hicks is imperative. Headley and Ellsbury should only lose reps against lefties, so Holliday needs to return as the odd-man out.

After briefly utilizing a six-man rotation, the Yankees slimmed the starting staff to five by sending down Jordan Montgomery. This shouldn't be the last New York sees of the rookie southpaw in 2017.
The 24-year-old labored in July, surrendering six runs to the Minnesota Twins on July 19 and four more in a condensed 2.2-inning outing against the Tampa Bay Rays on July 30. He also followed each blip with a bounce-back performance, keeping his season ERA at a solid 4.05. 
Montgomery has been the team's third-best starter in terms of WAR, and that's including Gray's work for the Oakland Athletics. Nevertheless, manager Joe Girardi told the New York Post's Joel Sherman that a six-man unit wasn't practical.
"In theory, it sounds great,” Girardi said before Montgomery's demotion. "But now you have six relievers and six starters and you get rid of one of your relievers that gives you distance, it puts you in a bind."
Even before adding Gray and Garcia, the Yankees probably didn't want the newcomer to make 30 starts. Girardi pulled him after five innings on Saturday despite throwing 65 pitches, a sign of the organization instituting an innings cap. Girardi set the maximum mark around 180, per Newsday's Erik Boland. He went to Triple-A with 120.2 frames—including a minor league outing—under his belt.
Let him take a breather, but don't forget about Montgomery. Although Luis Severino is dealing, taking a few turns with a six-man grouping would help avoid him reaching 200 frames in his first full season as a major league starter. Having allowed five or six runs in five of his last eight starts, Garcia represents a slight downgrade to the demoted southpaw.
If the rotation no longer has any openings, Montgomery can help in the bullpen. According to Baseball-Reference.com, he has contained lefties to a .196 average and posted a 2.56 ERA in the first inning.
It's the role he'd need to serve to make the postseason roster, so preserve his innings by trying him there in September.
Then again, this is all assuming the Yankees receive the good fortune of keeping five starting pitchers healthy for two months. CC Sabathia left Tuesday night's start with a tweaked knee and will undergo tests in New York, per YES Network, so Montgomery may rejoin the rotation sooner than they anticipated.

The Yankees skillfully filled every need before the non-waiver deadline, so general manager Brian Cashman has little to do through waivers. With Starlin Castro sidelined due to an injured hamstring, second base is their biggest area of need.
Ronald Torreyes has filled in amicably, batting .287 over 77 games. As long as Castro returns soon, the Yankees will take empty average and solid defense from a replacement better served as a super utility man off the bench.
Last week, Girardi described Castro as "still a ways away," per the New York Post's George A. King III. Seeking temporary outside assistance isn't necessary. Then again, they didn't make all those July transactions to settle for a wild-card spot or miss the playoffs altogether.
They could call the New York Mets about Neil Walker or Asdrubal Cabrera. According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, both cleared waivers. The Atlanta Braves have little reason to keep Brandon Phillips after promoting Ozzie Albies.
It'd be an aggressive move, but perhaps one Cashman consider if calls of the Evil Empire resurfacing are true.

This will draw heated backlash, as Clint Frazier has quickly endeared himself to Yankees fans. Despite his sizzling start and .477 slugging percentage, the Yankees may not have another choice when Hicks returns.
Demoting Cooper--who would likely be the casualty for a healthy Holliday--wipes out the first-base platoon. With Montgomery already down, they're unlikely to demote another hurler. While fellow neophyte Tyler Wade is less deserving of a big league spot, he's also their only reserve capable of manning the middle infield until Castro returns.
Frazier, meanwhile, sports a .274 on-base percentage due to drawing five walks in 28 games. Following a torrid introduction, he's batting .230 (20-for-87) in 21 second-half games.
Rather than splitting center-field duties with Ellsbury—who's stuck on the major league roster because of his enormous salary—the 22-year-old can play every day in Triple-A.
Al Pedrique, manager of the Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders, told Elite Sports New York's Emmanuel Berbari and Christian Kouroupakis that Frazier still must improve his defensive fundamentals.
"[Frazier] needs to understand that you can win and lose a lot of games on defense," Pedrique said. "We [need to] work on his defense and consistency with his routes, jumps, hitting the cutoff man because if you don’t, that could cause a lot of problems with the guy on the mound."
Besides, it's only temporary. Once rosters expand in September, the Yankees will bring him back, and possibly give him the everyday job over the multi-million sunk cost. It's not a popular decision, but it's the prudent with Hicks nearing his comeback.

On Saturday, the Yankees played Gary Sanchez at designated hitter. This is perfectly normal. On Sunday, he sat entirely, which would have been perfectly normal for a Sunday matinee if not followed by a day away from catching and a warning from Girardi.
"The start is not the message, the message came from us verbally that your defense needs to improve," Girardi said on Sunday, per the Post's King. "You need to improve and you need to work at it. We have expressed how important it is."
Message received. Now move on, because there is no conceivable galaxy where Sanchez gets benched or moved during the stretch run.
The budding star has swatted 37 home runs in 133 career games. Despite dropping off from last year's Herculean debut, the All-Star touts the position's fifth-highest WAR. 
Sanchez leads catchers in passed balls (12) and errors (10), but Baseball Prospectus grades him as a solid pitch framer. Backup Austin Romine has a .297 slugging percentage
Girardi was likely trying to motivate Sanchez, but reps are the best way for him to improve. This is, after all, his first full major league season. Stuck in heated division and wild-card battles, they have no leeway to put him on a timeout again.
Note: All advanced statistics courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.

As we steamroll through August and set our gaze on September, the race for the 2017 MLB title is getting real.
That's especially true with the non-waiver trade deadline behind us.
Sure, seismic swaps could go down provided players clear waivers. For the most part, however, contenders' rosters are set.
As such, we can calibrate World Series odds with a degree of confidence, allowing for the usual fluctuations that come with hot streaks, cold spells and, above all, injuries.
For reference, our odds are juxtaposed against those proffered by OddsShark.com. And we're defining a "contender" as any team with a 30 percent chance or greater of qualifying for the postseason, according to FanGraphs' calculation (sorry, Milwaukee Brewers, Seattle Mariners et al).

B/R Odds: 11/3
OddsShark.com Odds: 11/4
The Los Angeles Dodgers have the best record in baseball at 79-33. They pace the game with a plus-201 run differential. 
Then, at the deadline, they added one of the top right-handers in baseball by acquiring Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers.
The only caveat for L.A. is the health of Clayton Kershaw's back. The left-hander offered reassuring words Tuesday.
"I feel healthy," Kershaw said, per Bill Plunkett of the Orange County Register. "So I think now it's just a matter of building back up at a good pace, obviously understanding where we're at and the timeline and all that stuff."
Assuming they get the best pitcher on the planet back in the fold at full strength, the Dodgers are the prohibitive favorites to win their first pennant and championship since 1988.

B/R Odds: 7/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 9/2
The Houston Astros didn't make any major additions at the deadline, much to the consternation of ace left-hander Dallas Keuchel.
"I'm not going to lie," Keuchel said, per MLB.com's Brian McTaggart. "Disappointment is a little bit of an understatement."
The 'Stros and Detroit Tigers have "had contact" about right-hander Justin Verlander, per MLB Network's Jon Morosi.
Even without such a needle-moving deal, however, Houston owns the best record (71-41) and run differential (plus-167) in the American League.
Reinforcements would be nice, but this club is built for a deep October run.

B/R Odds: 7/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 7/1
After looking uncharacteristically hapless for much of the first half, the Chicago Cubs have gone 16-8 since the All-Star break to reclaim the top spot in the National League Central.
Their 59-53 record isn't going to blow anyone away, but the defending champions are trending in the right direction at the right time.
Plus, they acquired left-hander Jose Quintana at the deadline from the crosstown Chicago White Sox, bolstering a suspect rotation. They also nabbed lefty reliever Justin Wilson and veteran catcher Alex Avila from the Tigers.
Those ho-hum early results leave them open to doubters, but the Cubbies are poised to ascend the October stage once again and battle for a repeat. 

B/R Odds: 15/2
OddsShark.com Odds: 7/1
The Washington Nationals got Max Scherzer back from a neck injury. Now, they need healthy returns from oft-injured right-hander Stephen Strasburg and speedy Trea Turner. 
Other than that, the Nats are cruising to another NL East crown. Their offense is loaded, with Bryce Harper, Ryan Zimmerman, Daniel Murphy and unheralded star Anthony Rendon leading the Senior Circuit's highest-scoring attack.
Washington addressed its deficiency in the bullpen by acquiring Ryan Madson and Sean Doolittle from the Oakland Athletics and Brandon Kintzler from the Minnesota Twins. 
Now, the Nationals will try to get out of the division series for the first time since taking residence in the nation's capital. 

B/R Odds: 9/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 8/1
The defending American League champions didn't go big at the deadline, as they did in 2016, when they acquired relief ace Andrew Miller from the New York Yankees.
"When you look at the guys we have returning from injury with [starting pitcher] Danny [Salazar], [second baseman] Jason [Kipnis] and [outfielder] Lonnie [Chisenhall], those guys definitely shaped our view of the deadline," president of baseball operations Chris Antonetti said, per Bud Shaw of Cleveland.com.
Fair enough. And the Tribe did bolster its bullpen by nabbing ex-employee Joe Smith from the Toronto Blue Jays.
With a 60-50 record and the only positive run differential in the AL Central at plus-99, the Indians are a near-lock to win the division. 
Now, we'll see if they can end baseball's longest active championship drought.

B/R Odds: 9/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 15/2
At 64-49, the Boston Red Sox hold a four-game lead in the AL East. They've won eight of their last 10 and are finally doing what they were supposed to do: dominate.
The addition of speedy infielder Eduardo Nunez and right-handed setup man Addison Reed helped the cause, though there's uncertainty in the rotation with expensive left-hander David Price nursing an elbow injury. 
The Sox are a safer bet to win the division than they were even a few weeks ago, but they remain a tick below the Junior Circuit's top contenders. 

B/R Odds: 21/2
OddsShark.com Odds: 9/1
The Yankees still have the best run differential in the AL East at plus-113. Yet, they've dropped six of 10 and sit four games back of the rival Red Sox.
They were aggressive at the deadline, netting relievers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle and slugger Todd Frazier from the White Sox. They then landed ace right-hander Sonny Gray from the A's. 
In the process, general manager Brian Cashman wisely avoided mortgaging the farm.
With questions in the back of the rotation and a protracted slump by rookie masher Aaron Judge, however, the up-and-coming Yanks are holding onto wild-card hopes rather than legitimate World Series dreams. 

B/R Odds: 20/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 25/1
The Arizona Diamondbacks are overshadowed by the Dodgers in the NL West, but make no mistake: These Snakes are for real.
First baseman Paul Goldschmidt is an MVP contender, while resurgent ace Zack Greinke is ready to pitch in a potential one-and-done wild-card play-in.
Overall, the D-backs rank fourth in the NL in runs scored and OPS and second in ERA.
They won't catch L.A., but they wouldn't be the first squad to ride a wild-card berth to a champagne-and-confetti shower.

B/R Odds: 33/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 33/1
Speaking of NL West clubs with October aspirations, the Colorado Rockies sit at 64-49, just a half-game back of Arizona for the Senior Circuit's top wild-card position.
As per usual, Colorado has scored its share of runs and ranks third in that category in MLB. These Rockies can also pitch a little, however, as they own the eighth-best road ERA in the game. 
They added All-Star right-hander Pat Neshek and veteran catcher Jonathan Lucroy at the deadline. Neither is a game-changer by himself, but both signify a rising win-now mentality in the Mile High City.

B/R Odds: 35/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 25/1
The Kansas City Royals could have sold at the deadline, offloading a cache of soon-to-be free agents including outfielder Lorenzo Cain, third baseman Mike Moustakas, first baseman Eric Hosmer and left-hander Jason Vargas.
Instead, K.C. is going all-in for one more run with the core that brought it a pennant in 2014 and a Commissioner's Trophy in 2015.
It's not a ludicrous notion. At 57-55, the Royals are four games behind the Indians in the AL Central and one game back of the AL's second wild-card slot.
They didn't have the MiLB chips to add any headline-grabbing cavalry at the deadline, though they did snag outfielder and old friend Melky Cabrera from the White Sox.
Kansas City is mired in the AL's second tier, a group that includes teams not mentioned here because of their FanGraphs' odds, including Seattle, the Minnesota Twins, the Baltimore Orioles and the Los Angeles Angels. 
These Royals have a recent championship pedigree, however, and while that doesn't mean everything, it does mean something. 

B/R Odds: 50/1
OddsShark.com Odds: 66/1
The Tampa Bay Rays—perennial small-market darlings—sit at 58-56, in third place in the AL East with a modest plus-two run differential.
On the other hand, they have a sneakily powerful lineup that ranks fourth in the American League in home runs and a starting rotation that leads the AL in ERA.
No wonder FanGraphs gives them a 32.7 percent chance of reaching the playoffs.
Are they likely to vault past the Yankees and Red Sox in their own division, let alone the Astros and Indians for league supremacy? No.
Will they be a fun underdog to follow as summer cedes to autumn? Bet on it.
     
All standings and statistics current as of Tuesday and courtesy of MLB.com and Baseball-Reference unless otherwise noted. 

Baseball's non-waiver trade deadline passed more than a week ago, but the pitcher who might be the biggest difference-maker of all remains on the market.
He's healthy, he's strong and he's pitching as well as he has all season. Just last Friday, he punctuated a solid seven innings with a 99.8 mph fastball—on his 104th pitch of the night—for a strikeout that kept runners at second and third.
He's also cleared waivers, making him eligible to be traded during the season until August 31, as reported by Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press and confirmed by Bleacher Report sources.
Forget for a moment about Justin Verlander's age (34) and his contract (he makes $28 million this year, with the same salary due next year and the year after). Put him on any contending team, and that team has an improved chance of winning the World Series.
So why, when I contacted an American League executive who has followed the Verlander market, did he make it "one in 100" that the Detroit Tigers right-hander gets moved anywhere this month? Why are those chances going down, since the same executive said it was "three out of 10" when asked about Verlander when the July trading season began?
How could the chances have gotten worse, as Verlander's pitching has gotten better? In four starts since making a mechanical tweak in his delivery, Verlander has a 2.33 ERA with 33 strikeouts and six walks in 27 innings.
Oh, and by the way, that includes six shutout innings against the Houston Astros, the team that probably could use Verlander the most.
The Astros, according to sources, did show some interest in a Verlander deal, but were unwilling to surrender any of the prospects the Tigers wanted or to take on a significant amount of his remaining contract.

The Chicago Cubs could also use Verlander, even though their starting rotation has rebounded since the All-Star break. But after making trades for Jose Quintana (from the Chicago White Sox) and Justin Wilson and Alex Avila (from the Tigers), the Cubs have little of value left in their farm system. Even if they had interest, which so far they haven't, it's hard to see them being able to match the Tigers' price in prospects.
The Los Angeles Dodgers? Even before they got Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers, they'd told the Tigers Verlander's contract wouldn't fit into their future budget. The New York Yankees? Even before they got Sonny Gray from the Oakland A's, Verlander apparently wasn't on their radar.
The Milwaukee Brewers? That was never happening.
Remember, Verlander has full no-trade protection because he's been with the Tigers for more than 10 years. While he prefers not to talk about where he would go and where he wouldn't, it's believed he would accept a deal to a contending team in a large market. Chicago, Los Angeles and New York would certainly qualify. Houston? That's harder to say, but it doesn't really matter unless the Tigers and Astros could come a lot closer to agreeing on Verlander's value than they have so far.
The Tigers aren't going to move him simply for salary relief. Club owner Chris Ilitch has already made that call. When the July 31 deadline passed, general manager Al Avila said he and the team were fully prepared to keep Verlander until his contract runs out in 2019.
"He's an icon in Detroit," Avila said, according to MLB.com's Jason Beck. "He's an original Tiger. We drafted him, developed him, and we think he's going to be a future Hall of Famer. We're very happy to have him."

All of that is fine, but logic suggests there's a deal out there that would benefit all parties. The Tigers would get a jump on their needed rebuild. Verlander would get a chance to chase team (World Series) and personal (200 wins and beyond) goals.
And a club that acquired him would get a pitcher who is still one of the best in the game, a guy who can still go get 100 mph when he needs it and throws a four-seam fastball that still has the highest spin rate (2,536 RPM, according to MLB.com's Statcast) among all starting pitchers.
It's the spin rate that gives a fastball the illusion of rising as it passes through the strike zone. It's a measure of what scouts call "late life," and it's something Verlander has always had. His curveball ranks high on the spin-rate chart, too, which leads to swings and misses and weak ground balls.
The stuff is still there, and given Verlander's drive and his health history (he's never had a serious arm injury), it's more than possible it will be there the next two years, too.
Is he worth $28 million a season, or anything close to that? Is he worth the type of prospects the Tigers continue to seek in a deal?
If he's the difference in winning a World Series, then yes he most definitely is.
Good luck finding another pitcher available this month who can do that.
        
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

Los Angeles Angels manager Mike Scioscia and designated hitter Albert Pujols were ejected from Tuesday night's game against the Baltimore Orioles for arguing balls and strikes. 
According to Southern California News Group's Jeff Fletcher, the two were tossed after taking issue with a check-swing call in the bottom of the sixth inning that resulted in Pujols' second strikeout of the evening. 
It's been a season full of frustration for Pujols and the Angels, who entered Tuesday night on a three-game losing streak that has sent them tumbling back below .500. 
On a personal level, Pujols has floundered throughout 2017—including a particularly rough stretch over the past month. 
Prior to his ejection, the three-time MVP was slashing .179/.207/.345 with four home runs, 14 RBI and 16 strikeouts since the All-Star break. 
All told, Pujols is in the midst of posting a career-low batting average (.228), on-base percentage (.272) and slugging percentage (.379) along with minus-1.4 offensive wins above replacement. 
Should that mark stay in the red, it will represent the first time in Pujols' career that he posts an oWAR total below 1.3.  
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference. 

The Seattle Mariners didn't exactly break the bank Tuesday when they acquired right-handed pitcher Ernesto Frieri.
According to the Associated Press (h/t ESPN.com), the Texas Rangers sold him to their American League West rivals for $1. Texas previously signed him as a minor league free agent on June 15, but he struggled with a 5.14 ERA in six relief appearances for the Rangers.
As a result, he was assigned outright to Triple-A Round Rock on July 7.
Frieri has also pitched for the San Diego Padres, Los Angeles Angels, Pittsburgh Pirates and Tampa Bay Rays throughout his career and impressed from 2010 through 2012. He finished the 2010 campaign with a 1.71 ERA, the 2011 season with a 2.71 ERA and the 2012 season with a 2.32 ERA.
However, he has failed to replicate that type of impact since and didn't pitch in 2016 after the Philadelphia Phillies released him during spring training.
Seattle assigned him to Triple-A Tacoma after acquiring him Tuesday, but manager Scott Servais knows the pitcher from their days with the Angels.
Servais was the assistant general manager in Los Angeles when Frieri was there, and the manager called him a "good guy, somebody with major league experience that if we do start circulating guys up and down then he's a guy that's been there before that you can count on," per the AP.
Seattle is a middling 13th in the league in bullpen ERA, per ESPN.com, and could use Frieri if he rediscovers his past form following this move.

New York Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia will head back to New York for tests on his knee after tweaking it during Tuesday's abbreviated start against the Toronto Blue Jays, according to YES Network's Meredith Marakovits. 
The New York Daily News' Mike Mazzeo added it's unclear if Sabathia will be placed on the 10-day disabled list. 
Sabathia previously spent three weeks on the shelf after he was diagnosed with a Grade 2 hamstring strain June 13. He returned to the mound July 4 and has gone 2-3 since. 
Now 19 starts into the 2017 season, the seasoned southpaw is 9-5 overall with a 4.05 ERA and 1.31 WHIP. 
Despite a shaky outing Tuesday that saw Sabathia give up four earned runs in three innings, his production won't be easily replaced if he's forced to miss starts considering the Yankees are 13-6 when he takes the mound, per Mazzeo. 
A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
Houston Astros catcher Brian McCann likely thought he went yard off Chicago White Sox starter Derek Holland during Tuesday's game at Guaranteed Rate Field. 
Chicago center fielder Adam Engel had other plans. 
With nobody on base and nobody out in the top of the fourth inning, McCann crushed a 1-1 pitch deep to right-center field that appeared headed over the wall. 
Engel sprinted to the warning track, timed his jump perfectly, climbed the wall and kept the ball inside the park with a phenomenal catch. 
The 25-year-old completed the catch well above the top of the fence, making this of the best robberies you'll see all season. 
Condolences to the fan in the first row hoping to retrieve a souvenir.
[Instagram]

Umpire Joe West has reportedly been suspended three games for saying Texas Rangers third baseman Adrian Beltre is the biggest complainer in Major League Baseball during an interview. 
On Tuesday, Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times reported the suspension news and noted the World Umpires Association "strongly opposes" the penalty.
West's comments about Beltre came in a June interview with Bob Nightengale of USA Today.
"It's got to be Adrian Beltre," West said when he was asked who the league's biggest complainer is in the interview. "Every pitch you call that's a strike, he says, 'Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!' I had a game with him recently and the pitch was right down the middle. He tells me, 'that ball is outside.'"
West continued, "I told him, 'You may be a great ballplayer, but you're the worst umpire in the league. You stink.'"
Nightengale did point out West clarified he and Beltre are on friendly terms despite his opinion that the slugger's tendency to complain.
Matt Snyder of CBS Sports and MLB writer Christopher Crawford discussed the ruling on West:
I love Adrian Beltre and don't care for Joe West, but suspending him for saying someone complains is pretty ridiculous
Do I think Joe West should be suspended for what he said? Probably not.

Would a player get suspended for saying what West did? You bet.
This comes after Beltre made news during an interaction with an umpire on July 26.
When on deck, Beltre typically stands closer to the batter and plate rather than in the designated circle. As a result, second base umpire Gerry Davis asked him to stand in the circle, but rather than follow Davis' orders, Beltre moved the mat from the circle to where he was standing, drawing an ejection.
Almost no one can make this catch.

@BillyHamilton is an exception. Wow. https://t.co/EuaaH5YF2U
Cincinnati Reds center fielder Billy Hamilton added another defensive highlight to an already impressive resume Tuesday evening, even though he may have made the play slightly more difficult than needed.   
In the top of the third inning at Great American Ball Park, San Diego Padres second baseman Carlos Asuaje crushed a 3-1 pitch delivered by Cincinnati starter Sal Romano to straightaway center. 
Hamilton appeared to misread the flight of the ball as he approached the warning track, but the 26-year-old made the necessary adjustments and completed the one-handed catch as he crashed into the wall. 
The speedster's journey to the ball was arguably as impressive as the catch: 
According to @statcast  -- Hamilton ran 106 feet to catch the Asuaje fly ball to the wall #reds https://t.co/R3ZPQf2QDg
[Twitter]

Atlanta Braves shortstop Johan Camargo was forced out of Tuesday's matchup against the Philadelphia Phillies before the first pitch after injuring his leg while walking on the field at the start of the game. 
The Braves announced Camargo suffered a "hyper-extended right knee" and would be undergoing an MRI. 
Camargo was in the Braves' starting lineup for the game, starting at shortstop and hitting seventh. He was replaced by Jace Peterson after being forced out. 
Originally signed by the Braves out of Panama in 2010, Camargo made his Major League debut on April 11 against the Miami Marlins. The 23-year-old has been a solid offensive performer with a .292/.327/.454 with 22 extra-base hits in 63 games. 
Camargo currently ranks fifth on the Braves with 1.1 FanGraphs wins above replacement. His UZR per 150 games played of 19.1 is second among Atlanta players, trailing only Danny Santana, per FanGraphs.
The Braves entered play on Tuesday with a 51-59 record, 11.5 games behind the Arizona Diamondbacks for the second wild card spot in the National League.  

The Los Angeles Angels announced on Tuesday that third baseman Yunel Escobar is expected to miss 2-3 weeks with a mild Grade 1 oblique strain.
The team placed him on the 10-day disabled list. Escobar, 34, is hitting .274 with seven home runs and 31 RBI in 89 games this season.
It's a tough break for an Angels team suddenly dealing with injuries, with Kole Calhoun currently day-to-day as he recovers from a hamstring strain. 
And as the Angels try to sneak back into the wild-card race—at the time of publication, they were 55-58 and sat three games behind the Kansas City Royals and Tampa Bay Rays for the second wild-card berth—any injuries are potentially a major impediment. 
With Escobar sidelined, Luis Valbuena will slot into the lineup as the team's starting third baseman. Valbuena has had a rough season, hitting .187 with 11 homers and 35 RBI in 74 contests.

The Seattle Mariners placed reliever David Phelps on the 10-day disabled list Tuesday with a right elbow impingement. 
Greg Johns of MLB.com reported Phelps is expected to miss two to three weeks.
Phelps, 30, is 3-5 with a 3.33 ERA and 1.30 WHIP. He's struck out 62 batters in 54 innings while converting 21 holds, most of which came in Miami. The Marlins traded Phelps to Seattle in July in exchange for four prospects.
Phelps left Sunday's doubleheader against the Kansas City Royals with elbow discomfort.
“The last couple of times out, I just really haven’t gotten loose like I have in the past,” Phelps told reporters afterward. “As far as getting loose out of the bullpen, it is fine, but as soon as I get in the game it’s a little tight. I can tell the ball just isn’t coming out and my stuff hasn’t really been the same. In the past, I’ve pitched through things until I broke my arm. I thought it was better to let (trainers) come out. They’ve known about it and we’ve been treating it.”

With less than two months remaining in the regular season, Major League Baseball has announced the 2017 postseason schedule that will start with the American League Wild Card Game on Oct. 3.
MLB Communications released the full schedule for this year's playoffs:
2017 @MLB Postseason begins 10/3 with AL WC Game on @ESPN, followed by 10/4 NL WC Game on @TBSNetwork; 113th WS starts 10/24 on @MLBONFOX. https://t.co/WSaS7znZUv
The American League Divison Series will start on Oct 5., with the National League getting started on Oct. 6. The respective League Championship Series will begin eight days after the start of the Division Series. 
Game 1 of the 2017 World Series will be played at the home of the team with the best record in MLB on Oct. 24. If the series goes the distance, Game 7 will be played on Nov. 1. 
The Chicago Cubs are the defending World Series champions and hold a 1.5-game lead over the Milwaukee Brewers in the National League Central. The Los Angeles Dodgers own MLB's best record at 79-32, 15.5 games ahead of the Colorado Rockies in the National League West. 
The rest of the NL playoff field based on current standings would include the Washington Nationals as the NL East champions, with the Rockies and Arizona Diamondbacks as the two wild card teams. 
In the AL, the Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians and Houston Astros lead their respective divisions. The New York Yankees lead the wild-card race, with the Kansas City Royals holding an edge over the Tampa Bay Rays based on percentage points for the second wild card spot. 

Washington Nationals star right fielder Bryce Harper went 2-for-4 with a home run during Monday's 3-2 victory over the Miami Marlins. In doing so, he tied the mark for the third-youngest active player to collect his 150th home run at just 24 years old, per Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com).
Only two active players have reached the milestone at a younger age: Albert Pujols (24 years, 212 days) and Giancarlo Stanton (24 years, 290 days). However, incredibly, Mike Trout hit his 150th homer at the exact same age (9,061 days) as Harper.
Harper, an All-Star, has been putting together another impressive season. Following Monday's action, the outfielder leads the majors in on-base plus slugging percentage (1.044) and ranks fourth in home runs (29).
After a disappointing .243/.373/.441 batting line last season while dealing with nagging injuries to his neck and shoulder, 2017 has been a bounce-back year for him. Through 102 games played, Harper is batting .327/.422/.621 with 29 home runs.
Despite the lackluster batting line, Harper still managed to record the first 20-20 season of his career in 2016. While he's been less active on the basepaths this year, recording just two steals so far, there's no doubt that Harper is creating enough impact with his bat to make up for it.
If Harper continues his stellar season, he could add some more hardware to his collection. To date, he's acquired the Rookie of the Year award, a Silver Slugger, an MVP and five All-Star selections.
The Nationals and Harper will face the Marlins once again Tuesday. Vance Worley, who's 1-2 with a 5.31 ERA and 1.40 WHIP, will be toeing the rubber for Miami.

Los Angeles Angels center fielder Mike Trout recorded a double off Baltimore Orioles starter Dylan Bundy in the fourth inning of Monday's 6-2 loss.
The hit marked the 1,000th of his career and it came on a special day, his 26th birthday, per the Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com). The star outfielder became just the third player who has debuted in the last 100 years to reach 1,000 hits on his birthday. Both Charlie Moore (1986) and Hal Morris (1998) reached the milestone on a birthday, with each turning 33.
Trout added a solo home run in the sixth inning, his fourth in six birthday games. Among active major league players, only one—Mark Reynolds with six—has more birthday home runs. However, Reynolds has had many more opportunities (11 MLB seasons) than Trout to add to that total, turning 34 last Thursday.
Although Trout's six-week stint on the disabled list—the first of his major league career—in late May for a thumb injury will likely prevent him from winning an MVP award in 2017, he's still posted impressive numbers when healthy. Through 68 games, the New Jersey native has posted a .346/.464/.716 batting line with 23 home runs and 13 stolen bases. Over the course of a 162-game season, that would have put him on a pace for over 50 round-trippers.
Trout is no stranger to MVP talks, having won the award on two different occasions already and finishing runner-up another three times. He also owns five Silver Slugger awards and six All-Star nominations to his name.
With plenty of playing career remaining ahead of him, Trout's early pace should make him a solid bet to reach 2,000 with ease and potentially challenge 3,000 if he sticks around long enough. For now, he will focus on keeping the Angels around in the wild-card race, sitting three games back of the Kansas City Royals and Tampa Bay Rays following the loss.

Carlos Gonzalez was reportedly offered "a lucrative four-year deal from the Colorado Rockies this spring," according to Bob Nightengale of USA Today.
Gonzalez, 31, didn't sign that extension, however, and is set to hit free agency this winter. He's struggled in 2017, hitting just .228 with seven home runs and 32 RBI, potentially limiting his value on the market.
Gonzalez is in the final season of a seven-year, $80 million contract and likely decided against signing an extension with the Rockies in the hope of earning another long-term and lucrative contract to close out his career.
Coming off another strong campaign that saw him hit .298 with 25 homers and 100 RBI, Gonzalez bet on himself to post big numbers again. And seeing as Gonzalez hit at least 25 homers and 85 RBI in five of the last seven seasons coming into 2017, it was a justifiable gamble.
It seems to have backfired, though Gonzalez's body of work should count for something.
"...One season shouldn't diminish what the whole package is and what a guy can do," Chicago Cubs pitcher Jake Arrieta told Nightengale while talking about free agency. "You can struggle for a little while. It's going to happen. If a guy hits .200 for a while, it doesn't mean he's a .200 hitter."
"Anomalies happen, whether it's a great year or a bad year," Washington Nationals general manager Mike Rizzo added. "Oftentimes, there's reasons and rationales that may not be clear. A player may be nicked up and grinding through a little discomfort or an injury because he was good enough to play but not hurt enough to be on the DL. So many things go into it."
Gonzalez will likely receive some benefit of the doubt. But given that he'll be 32 next season, his disappointing 2017 campaign might force him to accept a contract less lucrative than the extension the Rockies reportedly put on the table.

Fact: Mike Trout recorded his 1,000th career hit on Monday night, becoming the 10th American League player ever with 1,000 hits before their age-26 season. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

If MLB's July 31 non-waiver trade deadline offered any indication, the offseason's biggest free-agent hitters will face a frustrating market.
As playoff contenders fixated on pitching, position players fell by the wayside. Some teams failed to find a taker for above-average contributors, and those players who switched places fetched underwhelming returns.
An offensive boom has created a saturation of sluggers and a scarcity of top-tier pitching. Yet interest may shift back to hitting during the offseason since volatile, easily combustible hurlers make risky long-term investments.
Clubs interested in boosting their scoring prowess will find a bevy of options. While some marquee names nosedived during contract years, others perfectly timed breakout campaigns.
One recent champion faces an especially perilous winter, during which it could lose three of its top contributors. Accounting for age, offense, defense and expected future value, let's see where they rank among MLB's top pending batters for hire.

The Wild Card: Justin Upton, OF, Detroit Tigers
Justin Upton can add a major name to the mix by opting out of the remaining four years and $88.5 million of his six-year deal. FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman described the possibility as "beyond remote" in late May, but the odds have since increased considerably.
Upton, who turns 30 later this month, is batting .277/.365/.525 with 21 home runs, 10 stolen bases and 4.3 WAR. He's still unlikely to receive much of a pay raise, but he may prefer to leave the Detroit Tigers as they inch toward a needed rebuild.
If he hits free agency, he easily jumps into the top five with a credible claim to the No. 1 spot.
                            
Too Many 1B
Yonder Alonso, 1B, Seattle Mariners
Lucas Duda, 1B, Tampa Bay Rays
Mitch Moreland, 1B, Boston Red Sox
Mike Napoli, 1B, Texas Rangers (Club Option)
Mark Reynolds, 1B, Colorado Rockies
                        
Three first basemen made the cut, so there was no room for these solid hitters as the need for first basemen will have dwindled. Amid a major power breakthrough (career-high 22 home runs), Yonder Alonso was the toughest exclusion. Another late bloomer with more homers and better defense took his spot.
                                                                          
Strong Track Records
Todd Frazier, 1B/3B, New York Yankees
Neil Walker, 2B, New York Mets
Carlos Gonzalez, OF, Colorado Rockies
Melky Cabrera, OF, Kansas City Royals
Carlos Gomez, OF, Texas Rangers
                        
Carlos Gonzalez has had a successful career in Coors Field, but baseball's worst position player couldn't justify a spot. Power is no longer scarce enough for Todd Frazier to get by as more than an average hitter with a microscopic batting average (.206). Neil Walker and Melky Cabrera are steady hands, but Carlos Gomez is the biggest threat to force his way into the end-of-season top 10.
                                    
Old Reliables (Emphasis on Old)
Brandon Phillips, 2B, Atlanta Braves
Howie Kendrick, INF, Washington Nationals
Carlos Beltran, OF/DH, Houston Astros
Curtis Granderson, OF, New York Mets
Matt Holliday, DH, New York Yankees
                       
Continuing to defy Father Time as a productive second baseman, Brandon Phillips is the most valuable of the veteran grouping. Howie Kendrick also continues to pile up hits. Like Carlos Beltran and Matt Holliday, Curtis Granderson could extend his career as a designated hitter.

Teams may face a tougher challenge in projecting Logan Morrison.
Formerly no more than an average hitter, the first baseman has transformed into an elite power source in 2017. He has belted a career-high 28 home runs with a 137 weighted runs created plus (wRC+) that eclipses Anthony Rizzo and Ryan Zimmerman. 
He has made tangible changes to his approach, increasing his fly-ball rate to 46.4 percent (over 10 percent uptick). Anyone who believes his alterations will last should vault him into the top five, but what if he's a one-year wonder?
Perhaps more realistically, what if his 23.0 home run/fly-ball rate deteriorates and he's a league-average first baseman rather than an All-Star snub?
That's a fine outcome, as long as the buyer pays for that rather than the full-fledged breakout. Morrison should expect some healthy skepticism with so many other first basemen for hire, but it only takes one team to invigorate his market value.

The New York Mets are still trying to trade Jay Bruce. That can't be a great sign for his free-agency value.
Thirteen games out of the National League wild card and certainly not in 2017 contention, the Mets still didn't unload the outfielder by July 31. He could still play out the season on a title hopeful. According to Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal, the 30-year-old cleared revocable waivers.
Bruce was a downright poor player in 2014 and 2015, and he spoiled a bounce-back 2016 by hitting .219/.294/.391 if 50 games with the Mets. Yet he has clobbered 29 home runs this season, a tally exceeded by just seven players. Boasting a .528 slugging percentage, 122 wRC+ and 2.1 WAR, he looks like the man who was formerly one of baseball's steadiest sluggers with the Cincinnati Reds.
"I feel like this is the most consistent I've been, which is huge," Bruce said days before the deadline, per Newsday's Marc Carig. "I pride myself on playing every single day, preparing, being ready to go, being the guy you can count on to post and being a quality piece to a winning team. Individually this year, so far I've done that."
Yet teams appear less willing than ever to invest in aging power hitters. Already given a glimpse of how ugly a decline would look, Bruce may elicit less interest than one would expect from a well-known slugger with seven 25-homer seasons under his belt.

Eduardo Nunez's stock keeps rising by the day.
In nine games since getting traded to the Boston Red Sox, the utility man is hitting 16-for-40 with four doubles, four home runs, three stolen bases and 12 RBI. He's now batting .319/.345/.462 with 21 steals and 2.0 WAR over 85 games. 
Paying for speed and batting average is always dicey, especially since he's hitting over his head. According to Baseball Savant, the 30-year-old has a .250 expected batting average based on Statcast data. 
Yet he's unlikely to so deeply regress soon with MLB's lowest strikeout percentage (9.4) among all qualified batters. If anything, he'll slide back to last year's .288 clip of his career .281 average. A buyer won't mind if he continues to run wild and offer defensive versatility.
Per FanGraph's value estimations, he has yielded $46.5 million worth of production over the last three seasons, the first of which he was stuck in a limited role. Having proved his worth as a major league regular, he should command an eight-figure annual salary.

Last year's version of Jonathan Lucroy would top this list and make a realistic push to become baseball's highest-paid catcher. Now he's only mentioned as a courtesy to past performance and the position's lack of star power.
A year removed from batting .292/.355/.500 with a career-high 24 home runs, the 31-year-old is now hitting .245/.304/.341 with four long balls, the last of which he smacked June 9. The same guy the Milwaukee Brewers exchanged for Lewis Brinson last summer landed the Texas Rangers a player to be named later from the Colorado Rockies.
He can salvage some value with a strong conclusion to 2017, but skeptics may attribute a rebound to Coors Field. Either way, suitors would be remiss to write off a top contributor after one bad season.
Since 2012, only Buster Posey and Yadier Molina have accrued more WAR than Lucroy at the position. Up until 2017, he offered elite results in the batter's box and behind the plate.
His untimely slide is especially cruel given his production on a six-year, $16.25 million contract. Based on his career resume, he should still make as much as his $5.25 million 2017 salary, if not more next season.

Carlos Santana would have been gravely underappreciated in the pre-Moneyball era. Although teams will now properly respect his elite plate discipline, he hits the open market a year too late.
The first baseman would have snagged a hefty contract after registering career highs in home runs (34) and WAR (3.7) for the American League champion Cleveland Indians. This season, his power has regressed close to career norms as he sports a .438 slugging percentage and 16 home runs.
Eighteen first basemen have gone deep more times this year, and his 107 wRC+ ranks 19th at the stacked position. Only a handful of teams will view him as an upgrade, and there are plenty of alternatives in a free-agent class also featuring Alonso, Morrison, Mike Napoli, Lucas Duda and Eric Hosmer. 
But remember the walks. Only the king of on-base percentage, Joey Votto, has drawn more free passes than Santana since 2011. Speed, power and bat speed eventually fade, but veterans can maintain a keen batting eye past their physical peak.
Santana thus has a higher floor than other available players. It's 2017, so MLB organizations won't run from a career .247 hitter with a .363 on-base percentage. Inconsistent power at a position that demands pop, on the other hand, creates a legitimate hurdle.

If anyone believes in his offensive breakthrough, Zack Cozart will receive a massive payday.
Even as a mediocre hitter, the Cincinnati Reds shortstop was a quality starter based on his glove. Now he's hitting .318/.404/.573 with the position's second-highest wRC+ (151), behind Carlos Correa (158). A strong finish can convince suitors he's one of few two-way shortstop stars.
There's evidence to support his newfound plate prowess, most notably career highs in walk (12.7) and hard-hit percentage (33.1). Although he's still likely to regress, anyone investing heavily on limited offensive excellence has the cushy fallback of an elite defensive shortstop.
He has also, however, missed time for the third consecutive year. This season, a quad injury in late July prevented the Reds from selling him before MLB's non-waiver trade deadline.
That could lower Cozart's salary. Teams are also often skeptical of late-career breakouts, and he turns 32 on Saturday. Those scarlet letters curb him from topping the list, but the class' premier shortstop stands out in a crowded crop of hitting-oriented first basemen and outfielders. 

Of the Kansas City Royals' three premier pending free agents, Lorenzo Cain wields the most value. While Hosmer and Mike Moustakas have produced more at the plate, the center fielder leads the lineup in WAR (3.1) because of his baserunning and defense.
In fact, Cain has accumulated more WAR (16.7) since 2014 than either Royals corner infielder has in his career. He's an All-Star talent even as a slightly above-league-average hitter.
So why is he ranked below Hosmer and Moustakas? Age. Whereas both teammates enter the open market below 30, Cain turns 32 next April. That's especially worrisome considering how much value he derives from his legs.
He eventually won't have the stamina to swipe 25-30 bags and gracefully patrol the outfield. That decay could ruin the tail end of his new contract, especially if he lands a long-term deal.
Yet center fielders who can defend and run are far scarcer than sluggers, so he offers a bigger 2018 boost.  

Perhaps baseball's most compelling Rorschach test, Hosmer is simultaneously viewed as a stud by some and an average big league first baseman by others.
Over the time he notched three straight Gold Gloves (2013-15), advanced metrics painted him as one of the league's most limited fielders. He received his first All-Star nod in 2016, only to finish the season with minus-0.2 WAR. 
Jim Leyland frequently started him over Paul Goldschmidt in the World Baseball Classic. That's a huge sign of respect for someone with a significantly worse career wRC+ (109) than Duda (124), who is likely to fall through the cracks while Hosmer gets one of the offseason's biggest deals.
To be fair, Hosmer's .315/.371/.498 slash line finally matches his overblown reputation. Set to turn 28 in October, he's also the youngest highlighted hitter who will test his worth. On pace to play over 150 games for the fifth season in six years, he also receives bonus points for durability. 
A team who gives him passing grades on its defensive eye test will feel more comfortable extending him a six-, potentially even seven- or eight-year offer. There's huge overpay potential, and his career numbers say such as pact is still a huge reach. Yet Hosmer is a steady hand who may just now be rounding into his prime among a weak free-agent hitting crop. 

Moustakas will find out if teams still dig the long ball.
After suffering a torn ACL early last season, the third baseman has recovered to club 32 home runs. He also, however, holds a mediocre .307 on-base percentage on account of drawing 18 walks.
Once a strong fielder, Moustakas now grades as a subpar defender with minus-seven defensive runs saved (DRS) and a minus-1.0 ultimate zone rating (UZR). The injury has stripped him of range at the hot corner, so this decline appears more than a misleading sample.
Moustakas could cement his All-Star standing by reverting to a competent fielder and returning to the 7.0 walk percentage he posted in 2014 and 2015. Neither is out of the realm of possibility, but teams won't easily forget the ACL tear when deciding whether he warrants a $15-$20 million annual salary.
It would be a tougher sell if he tested the waters in his 30s, but the to-be 29-year-old should ride his power outburst to a sizable payday.

He's one of baseball's fiercest batters, but J.D. Martinez's summer availability didn't draw a grand-scale frenzy. The Arizona Diamondbacks somehow acquired the star outfielder without sending the Tigers any blue-chip prospects.
Nevertheless, teams should line up for his services this offseason.
Since the start of 2014, only three active, qualified hitters (Mike Trout, Nolan Arenado and Giancarlo Stanton) have submitted a higher slugging percentage than Martinez's .553. And that's a quaint mark compared to this year's .628 clip compiled over 72 games.
Despite missing all of April due to a Lisfranc sprain in his right foot, he has belted 22 home runs, six of which he has nailed in 15 games with Arizona. 
Martinez is baseball's best superstar hitter who doesn't receive superstar recognition. Over the past three-plus seasons, his 145 wRC+ matches former Tigers teammate Miguel Cabrera's, and the latter signed an eight-year, $248 million extension that began in 2016.
Although Martinez won't sniff that much money, he should enter 2018 a rich man. Subpar defense and past health woes may require him to maximize his annual earnings with a three- or four-year deal, but someone may reward a fifth year to a 30-year-old delivering peak performance.
Like with any big-time free agent, investing in Martinez comes with hazards. He'll be the biggest litmus test on whether teams will go broke for power.
Even with his warts, he tops the list on the strength of an awesome bat.
                 
Note: All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Salary info obtained from Cot's Baseball Contracts.

National League West rivals will square off in the first of three games at Chase Field on Tuesday when the division-leading Los Angeles Dodgers (79-32) visit the Arizona Diamondbacks (63-48) as small road favorites on the MLB lines at the sportsbooks.
The Diamondbacks enter the series opener 16 games behind the Dodgers in the NL West and a half-game behind the Colorado Rockies for second place.
        
Betting line: The Dodgers opened as -133 favorites (wager $133 to win $100); the total is at nine runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Line updates and matchup report.
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 5.0-2.6, Dodgers (MLB picks on every game)
        
Why the Dodgers can pay on the MLB lines
Los Angeles has lost just three times since the All-Star break while winning 18 games. Two of those losses took place in consecutive games at home against the Atlanta Braves, a team they easily could have been overlooking at the time. The Dodgers went on a nine-game winning streak, with five of the victories decided by one run.
During Los Angeles' current four-game winning streak, the team has won all of them by three runs or more. The Dodgers have also won six of the first 10 meetings with Arizona so far this season, according to the OddsShark MLB Database, including a three-game sweep at Chavez Ravine, California, in July, with each decided by one run.
         
Why the Diamondbacks can pay on the MLB lines
The Diamondbacks took two of three from Los Angeles in their only series at Chase Field between April 21 and 23. The two wins were both routs, with Arizona outscoring Los Angeles by a 24-10 margin as an underdog each time.
The Diamondbacks may have an edge in the pitching matchup here with Zack Godley (5-4, 2.86 ERA) going to the mound for the 16th time this year. Godley has been fantastic in going 2-0 in his last three outings, allowing four runs and 12 hits in a combined 18.2 innings with seven walks and 22 strikeouts. He also pitched well against the Dodgers earlier this season, giving up just one run and three hits in five innings of an eventual 1-0 road loss on July 5.
         
Smart betting pick
While Los Angeles has been difficult to bet against, Arizona is worth a look in this spot. Kenta Maeda (10-4, 3.79) has been better lately for the Dodgers, but he has gone 4-3 on the road overall with a 4.74 ERA. Ride with Godley and the D-backs.
        
MLB betting trends
Los Angeles is 13-1 in its last 14 games.
Los Angeles is 10-1 in its last 11 games on the road.
The total has gone over in four of Arizona's last six games.
        
All MLB lines and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.

What does the future hold for the top rookies of the 2017 Major League Baseball season?
Better have a seat, because that's actually a big question.
The future is never easy to predict, for one. Secondly, talented rookies seem to be popping up every day.
Nevertheless, the aim here is to rank the 10 rookies who'll have the most star power in, say, four or five years' time. This involves looking at what skills they have now and projecting how they'll evolve, as well as other factors that could come into play.
Since 10 slots aren't nearly enough to accommodate all the name-brand rookies out there, the first stops on this journey are honorable mentions and a "Show Me Something" brigade consisting of rookies who have star potential but also questions to answer.

Matt Chapman, 3B, Oakland A's
There should be a Gold Glove or two in Matt Chapman's future, and he has plenty of power for the hot corner. It's too bad his numbers will be suppressed by the Oakland Coliseum and, even more so, his iffy hit tool.
        
Derek Fisher, OF, Houston Astros
Derek "Not the NBA Guy" Fisher has an exciting combination of power and speed that will make him a regular in highlight reels. However, doubts persist about his hit tool and defense.
         
Ian Happ, INF/OF, Chicago Cubs
Ian Happ did nothing but hit in the minors and got off to a promising start when he arrived in The Show. But it's still unclear how he fits on defense, and his high strikeout rate (30.1 percent) raises an additional question about his hit tool.
         
Manuel Margot, CF, San Diego Padres
Manuel Margot is a heck of a defensive center fielder with speed and developing power. Now all he needs is a hitting approach that will allow for greater consistency.
        
Jordan Montgomery, LHP, New York Yankees
Formerly a lesser-known prospect, Jordan Montgomery has been a pleasant surprise as a major leaguer. But without dominant stuff, he's more of a back-end type than a top-of-the-rotation type.
         
Hunter Renfroe, RF, San Diego Padres
Hunter Renfroe has enough power to clear rooftops. But until he develops a more consistent hit tool and/or becomes a better defender in right field, power is all he'll have.
        
Colorado Rockies Pitchers
Per Baseball Reference's wins above replacement, the Colorado Rockies trio of Kyle Freeland, German Marquez and Antonio Senzatela owns three of the top four slots for rookie pitchers. In the long run, though, they're bound to find themselves fighting losing battles with Coors Field.

Ozzie Albies, 2B. Atlanta Braves
Scouting reports describe Ozzie Albies as a peak Dee Gordon-type: a speedy dynamo with a good bat and a slick glove. But with only a .322 on-base percentage in 153 games at Triple-A, it would be nice to have more tangible proof of his hitting ability.
         
Clint Frazier, OF, New York Yankees
Clint Frazier's bat speed is something to swoon over. But it was just last year that he struggled at Triple-A, and his time in the majors this season has been marred by too many strikeouts (27.4 percent) and alarmingly few walks (4.4 percent). 
        
Francis Martes, RHP, Houston Astros
There's a lot to like about Francis Martes' stuff, as he features a mid-to-high 90s fastball with a nasty curveball and nasty changeup. But between his time at Double-A and Triple-A, he's walked 4.3 batters per nine innings the last two seasons. That's a red flag if there ever was one.
        
Dansby Swanson, SS, Atlanta Braves
Dansby Swanson came into the year as a Rookie of the Year favorite but promptly crashed and burned hard enough to get sent back to the minors. He was never viewed as a high-ceiling guy to begin with and now has some redeeming to do to reinvigorate faith that he's even a high-floor guy.

Jacob Faria has quickly gone from being an obscure prospect to a minor league strikeout master and, most recently, a quietly dominant major leaguer.
Faria began 2017 by fanning 84 batters in only 58.2 innings at Triple-A Durham. He's since made 11 starts for the Tampa Bay Rays and posted a 2.81 ERA with 67 strikeouts in 67.1 innings.
The 24-year-old further frustrates hitters by specializing in another brand of easy outs: pop-ups.
Doing the heavy lifting for Faria are two pitches that look like legit weapons.
As Josh Norris covered at Baseball America, improvements to Faria's lower half helped his fastball. It now sits at a solid average of 91.9 miles per hour, with elite vertical action to boot. His changeup, meanwhile, is a diving beauty that ranks behind only Stephen Strasburg's changeup in whiffs-per-swing percentage, according to Baseball Prospectus.
It all seems too good to be true for a guy who began his pro career as a 10th-round draft pick and then spent years pitching in obscurity. 
But with two nasty pitches in his arsenal and impressive numbers now on his statsheet, Faria looks like at least a No. 3 starter and potentially even a No. 2 starter.

Josh Bell came just two at-bats shy of losing his rookie qualification in 2016. So, he's the only "rookie" you'll find with over 500 major league at-bats.
At any rate, Bell's .251 average and .326 on-base percentage with the Pittsburgh Pirates cast him as a solid hitter. Since he's an advanced hitter who chooses his swings carefully and doesn't often miss when he unleashes, he should get even better.
In the meantime, Bell, who turns 25 Sunday, is answering questions that dogged him as a prospect.
Regarding his power potential, his 19 home runs this season are a big step in the right direction. And he's only getting more consistent at making hard contact.
The other question had to do with whether Bell, who began his pro career as a right fielder, could handle first base. The defensive metrics suggest he's become an adequate defender, which meshes with his own outlook.
"When balls are hit my way, there's not that gasp," Bell said in May, per MLB.com's Adam Berry. "It's more like, 'OK, I've been here before. I've had thousands of balls hit my way, so let's get after it.'"
It's easy to overlook Bell among his fellow rookies right now. But that'll become harder to do as he develops into an All-Star-caliber first baseman.

Amed Rosario can currently be found at No. 2 in MLB.com's top 100 prospects, so there's no blaming New York Mets fans for shouting "Finally!" when he was called up on August 1.
If nothing else, it's going to be a ton of fun to watch the 21-year-old in the field. The tape makes him look like a shortstop with quick actions, smooth hands and a strong arm. The scouting reports overwhelmingly concur.
"There is no question he'll be a shortstop long-term, with the potential to be an elite-level defender thanks to his range, hands, footwork and plus arm," reads the book on him at MLB.com.
On the other side of the ball, Rosario doesn't have the pop to join Carlos Correa, Corey Seager and Francisco Lindor in the power-hitting shortstop revolution. Nor is he a walk merchant, which won't help his OBP.
Rosario will hit for average, though, as he's a .291 career hitter in the minors for good reasons. Namely: a strong contact habit and a feel for hitting to all fields.
Throw in plus speed, and Rosario should be a lot like a young Elvis Andrus: a slick-fielding, strong-hitting, fast-running shortstop.

Lewis Brinson has been mostly disappointing in his 21 games with the Milwaukee Brewers. To wit, he's hit only .106 with a .513 OPS.
However, he's also teased why he's widely regarded as one of baseball's top prospects.
He's shown his power, launching one homer that went 441 feet and another that went 461 feet. And he's shown what he can do with his speed, turning in one brilliant catch in center field.
The big question mark has to do with Brinson's bat. It obviously hasn't produced in the majors, and the concern is heightened by how his bat has done a disappearing-reappearing trick in the minors.
It is encouraging, however, that Brinson's bat has been at its best at the highest level of the minors. He's a .351 career hitter in 103 games at Triple-A, with passable walk (8.8) and strikeout (19.6) percentages. Such numbers reflect real improvements.
"As Brinson matured, so did his plate discipline," wrote Norris when the Brewers first called Brinson up in June.
Brinson isn't going to be a perennial .300 hitter, but he should make enough adjustments to keep his head above water. His power, speed and defense will do the rest to establish him as an exciting two-way star.

Bradley Zimmer has come a long way from the talented yet seemingly doomed prospect that he was in 2016.
He put up a solid .790 OPS at Double-A and Triple-A in 2016, but also struck out in 30.7 percent of the time. This after whiffing a not-so-encouraging 21.6 percent in his first two minor league seasons.
"To be unusually blunt, it's unclear at this point if Zimmer can hit," wrote Jeffrey Paternostro at Baseball Prospectus.
But behind the scenes, Zimmer was working on changing his swing. What followed was a big-time breakout at Triple-A that earned him a call to the majors. He's now sitting on a .780 OPS through 71 games, with a 27.5 strikeout percentage that's high but forgivable.
That's because of all the things he's doing for the Cleveland Indians when he's not striking out. As Mike Petriello of MLB.com covered, the 24-year-old is showing with great baserunning, great defense and power-laced hitting that he can be a five-tool player in The Show.
As long as the strikeouts remain, consistency will elude Zimmer. But he should be a two-way star in the same mold as Brinson and has obviously already taken a big step toward making that a reality.

Yoan Moncada ranked No. 1 on Baseball America's most recent top 100 prospects and still ranks at No. 1 for MLB.com. So, "What the heck is he doing down at No. 5?" is a valid question.
It's not for lack of tools. Moncada is a switch-hitter with power, speed, arm strength and a developing batting eye. His scouting report at MLB.com notes that he's referred to as "a faster version of Robinson Cano," which should certainly excite the Chicago White Sox.
But nobody's perfect. 
The 22-year-old Cuba native has had a strikeout problem in the high minors and has been unable to fix it in the majors. He's come to the plate 83 times and whiffed 33 times, a strikeout rate of 39.8 percent. That's only acceptable if your name is Joey Gallo.
Also looming over Moncada are concerns about his defense. He's shown he can translate his athleticism into highlight-reel plays. But in light of his 51 errors as a minor league second baseman, it's fair to wonder about his consistency.
Still, Moncada's eye-popping tools will help downplay any inconsistency he runs into. Rather than Cano, he'll be more like a speedier, more patient version of Rougned Odor.

Andrew Benintendi hasn't disappointed in his rookie season. He just hasn't met expectations that came hand-in-hand with his previous status as MLB's No. 1 prospect.
His .269/.355/.420 batting line is solid, but far from spectacular. And the Boston Red Sox haven't even used him as an everyday player. They've taken a cue from his platoon splits and sidelined him against left-handers.
Through it all, however, Benintendi has continued to look the part of a future .300 hitter.
His elevated walk rate (11.1 percent) and decreased strikeout rate (16.8 percent) reflect a measured approach that's perfectly cut out for consistent hitting. And with a 35.5 hard contact percentage, he's actually hit the ball hard more often than Mookie Betts and Hanley Ramirez.
It shouldn't be lost that the 23-year-old is also a capable defender. In fact, defensive runs saved rates him as one of the league's better left fielders. That's not out of whack with what the eye test says about his athleticism and instincts.
Benintendi lacks the power profile of a superstar left fielder. But if his bat develops like it should while he continues his good work on defense, he'll be a well-rounded star who rarely strays from the spotlight.

The Red Sox should be confident in Benintendi. With Rafael Devers, they should be downright thrilled.
The 20-year-old has only needed 11 major league games to make an impression. He's come to the plate 49 times and hit .349 with a 1.033 OPS. His process of producing these numbers has been just as impressive.
"His at-bats are just great," Betts said of Devers, per ESPN.com's Scott Lauber. "He's in control in all of his at-bats. He swings at good pitches. He's hitting the ball all over the plate, so they don't really know where to play him."
Even better is how Devers' power has developed. After hitting 29 homers in his first three pro seasons combined, he's hit 23 bombs across three levels this season. And he's hit them in all directions.
Where Devers still needs work is on defense. He has enough athleticism and arm strength to cut it at the hot corner, but his actions and instincts require polishing. Even once he has them, it's hard to see him as anything beyond an adequate gloveman.
But since his merely adequate defense will come with .300 averages and 30 homers from year to year, the Red Sox could live with that.

If right now is all anyone cares about, then Aaron Judge is obviously MLB's best rookie.
Wins above replacement justifies the "obviously," but advanced metrics aren't needed to see Judge's dominance. The New York Yankees' 25-year-old stud leads the American League in homers (35) and OBP (.424) and all of baseball in slugging percentage (.627).
Judge's power is here to stay. Baseball has never seen a hitter with his 6'7", 282-pound frame, and he puts it to work producing unparalleled exit velocity and an endless supply of jaw-dropping home runs.
And Judge's hit tool must not be overlooked. His walk rate spike to 17.1 percent is a testament to his keen eye. He'll also shorten up and poke easy base hits when he feels like it.
However, Judge's struggles since the All-Star break are a reality check. He comes with a big strike zone and with limited plate coverage, so asking him to sustain as a decidedly elite hitter is asking a lot.
And he probably isn't long for right field. As David Lennon covered at Newsday, the Yankees will likely move Judge to first base to fill a need and to protect his legs from long-term harm.
But in the scheme of things, these are nitpicks. Judge is a monster and will remain a monster.

Judge or Cody Bellinger for the future? The best way to decide that might be a coin flip.
But in this space, Bellinger gets the slightest of slight edges.
The 22-year-old is no slouch in the power department. He's needed only 91 games with the Los Angeles Dodgers to hit 32 home runs.
Bellinger doesn't have Judge's size, but he does have a swing that's made for power. It has an uppercut quality that keeps the ball off the ground. And he never gets cheated.
Strikeouts are the drawback of that, but Bellinger has recently been cutting down on those. That's a reminder that he was known as a quality hitter before he was known as a slugger. He shouldn't be as prone to inconsistency as fellow big-swinging Dodger Joc Pederson.
Bellinger is also a good athlete, and it shows on defense despite his humble status as a first baseman. With good range and soft hands, he has the goods for Gold Gloves.
"There's no limit for how good he could be. He's going to be as a good defensively as anyone at first," former big leaguer Ryan Garko, who managed Bellinger at Double-A Tulsa, told Sam Dykstra of MiLB.com.
Judge and Bellinger are the two best rookies in a great rookie class. Going forward, though, only one of them still has untapped potential.
      
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs, Baseball Savant, Brooks Baseball and MLBFarm.com.


In his August 3 outing against the New York Yankees, Corey Kluber spun nine innings of three-hit, one-run, 11-strikeout ball, overshadowing Yankees trade-deadline acquisition Sonny Gray in the process. 
Kluber looked like an ace. He threw like an ace.
He is an ace.
That's a comforting, undeniable truism for the defending American League champion Cleveland Indians as they enter the stretch run and seek to end baseball's longest active title drought.
Kluber has eclipsed 200 innings and 200 strikeouts every season since 2014, when he won the AL Cy Young Award. 
Last year, he authored a postseason tour de force by putting up a 1.83 ERA with 35 strikeouts across 34.1 frames. 
This season, there was a blip in the Klubot's programming. On May 2, he owned a 5.06 ERA and subsequently landed on the disabled list with a back injury.
Since returning to action June 1, however, he's been an absolute beast. During that span, as FanGraphs' Travis Sawchik noted, "Kluber has struck out a ridiculous 40.7 percent of batters. He owns a sparkling 36 percent K-BB%, 1.61 FIP and 40 ERA-. Since coming off the disabled list, Kluber has been [Los Angeles Dodgers closer] Kenley Jansen—only Jansen as a starting pitcher."
With his 11 punchouts against the Yankees, Kluber joined Randy Johnson, Nolan Ryan and Pedro Martinez on an elite list of pitchers who have fanned at least eight batters in 12 consecutive starts. 
Not coincidentally, those other three dudes are Hall of Famers.

"Pretty cool isn't it? Pretty cool," Indians skipper Terry Francona said of his stud's accomplishment, per Ryan Lewis of the Akron Beacon Journal. "He won't say anything about it. There's nothing wrong about being modest, but that's why we like to brag about him a little bit because he probably won't."
Humility aside, there's no denying Kluber's stature.
At age 31, his average fastball velocity has ticked down from a career high of 94.6 mph in 2014 to 93.1 mph this year.
He's learned to wield his breaking and offspeed offerings, however, to devastating effect.
"Sometimes you'll see some of his pitches start to back up, but he's able to come up with another pitch and make it the best pitch of his day," catcher Yan Gomes said, per Zack Meisel of Cleveland.com.
Then there's Kluber's affordability. The Indians owe him a scant $7.7 million this season, and he's locked into a bargain contract that could run through 2021 with a couple of club options. 
Add it up and you've got one of the best bang-for-your-buck hurlers in either league, a decorated No. 1 on a legitimate World Series contender with October bona fides already under his belt.
At 59-50 entering play Tuesday, the Indians aren't running away with anything. They do, however, hold a three-game lead over the Kansas City Royals in the AL Central.
Assuming Cleveland climbs back on baseball's autumn stage and makes another run at a long-overdue champagne-and-confetti celebration, Kluber will be the backbone. 
Lefty relief whiz Andrew Miller can build on his own playoff legend. On offense and defense, shortstop Francisco Lindor will have his chance to shine.
Kluber, though, is the only established Indians starting pitcher with an ERA south of 4.00 (it sits at 2.77).

The Junior Circuit features multiple aces. Chris Sale of the Boston Red Sox leads the pack with 216 strikeouts but has never made a playoff start. The Houston Astros' Dallas Keuchel sports a 2.15 ERA but has battled injuries and is coming off a down 2016 campaign.
If you go by FanGraphs' WAR calculation, only Sale (23.1) has been more valuable than Kluber (22.4) since 2014. And, again, there's the matter of postseason experience to consider.
Kluber is the guy who combines the numbers and track record. He's the horse you want to ride with everything on the line. 
"We rely on him so much, and he knows that," Francona said, per Matthew Florjancic of WKYC.com. "It's nice to put his name in there every five days."
Nice, in this case, being a truism and an understatement. 
           
All statistics current as of Monday and courtesy of MLB.com and FanGraphs.

San Francisco Giants legend Barry Bonds said Monday he wished he played an additional season after he finished his career with 762 home runs.
"I should have played one more year, I should have had the chance to," Bonds said, per Janie McCauley of the Associated Press.
According to McCauley, Bonds said it "stung" ending his career before the 2008 season, but he didn't push to return to the Giants because "I was just told I'm not coming back and that was it."
The slugger also pointed to how close he was to 800 career long balls: "I was what (38) away from 800? I'd have been real close. I would have never hit under 20-something, no matter what."
Bonds, who now works in the Giants organization as special adviser to the CEO, acknowledged "I wish I could have gotten to retire better, or just walk away better, whatever it was, however you want to call it."
Despite hitting more home runs than any player in MLB history, steroid allegations surrounded Bonds at the time of his retirement.
He hasn't been inducted into the Hall of Fame even though he won seven National League MVPs, 12 Silver Sluggers and eight Gold Gloves.
Bonds granting he wanted to play another year is notable because he drilled 28 home runs and led the league with a .480 on-base percentage in his final season. He likely could have thrived in the middle of the Giants lineup for at least another year given his 2007 performance.
🎶 Everyday I’m hustling.  🎶 https://t.co/5sMUocnVSI
Javier Baez hit a rare inside-the-park home run on Monday against the San Francisco Giants.
Baez hit a long fly ball at the top of the second inning. He sent it soaring into the far reaches of right center field. 
While San Fransisco outfielders desperately scrambled for the ball and tossed it back toward home, Baez took off.
Jason Heyward had a chance to book it from first to home, while Baez took a full tour of the bases and slid into home just milliseconds before the tag.

Los Angeles Angels superstar Mike Trout celebrated his 26th birthday in style Monday.
According to ESPN Stats & Info, the outfielder notched his 1,000th career hit against the Baltimore Orioles in Monday's contest. The hit came on a fourth-inning double off Baltimore starting pitcher Dylan Bundy, and he eventually came around to score on Kole Calhoun's sacrifice fly.
While a 1,000th hit is typically worthy of celebration after a game, Trout and his teammates already did plenty of celebrating for his birthday before they even took the field to face the Orioles:
Happy birthday, @miketrout 😂😂😂 https://t.co/6TuqjymLGb
The achievement is yet another notch on Trout's long list of accomplishments. The six-time All-Star won the 2012 American League Rookie of the Year and the AL MVP in 2014 and 2016.
The only thing missing from his resume is a World Series ring and sustained postseason success, considering he is just 1-of-12 in three playoff games.
However, his Angels are just 2.5 games back of the Kansas City Royals and Tampa Bay Rays for the final AL wild-card spot and are still in the thick of the playoff race, so he could potentially change that in the same season he tallied his 1,000th hit.
A photo posted by Andy Mota (@agentmo1)
Persistence definitely pays off, as one fan found out on the streets of New York City on Monday in a daring fashion. 
A young Dodgers fan threw caution to the wind as he chased down Yasiel Puig's taxi with baseballs and a pen in hand. 
The young man's potentially dangerous pursuit of the star's cab yielded him not just one, but two autographed balls once he was finally able to close in on Puig's passenger window. 
[Instagram]

Ike Davis is no longer a power-hitting first baseman for the New York Mets. Rather, he is now a pitcher in the Los Angeles Dodgers' farm system and impressed in his Arizona League debut Sunday. 
According to Eric Chesterton of MLB.com, the 30-year-old struck out the side in the sixth inning of the AZL Dodgers' 13-5 win over the AZL Padres.
Chesterton noted Davis does have some history on the mound. He served as a relief pitcher for the Arizona State Sun Devils in college and threw two scoreless innings of relief for the Oakland Athletics in 2015, allowing just one hit in the process.
While Eric Longenhagen of FanGraphs clarified Davis is "not a prospect," he did point out his fastball was in the 88-92 mph range during Sunday's performance.
Davis played for the Mets from 2010 through 2014, as well as the Pittsburgh Pirates, Athletics and New York Yankees later in his career. He notably drilled 32 home runs in 2012 for the Mets in what appeared to be a breakout campaign but was unable to replicate the success in the following years.
He never hit more than 11 long balls in a season after that and sports a career batting average of .239.
While he is no longer in the major leagues as a home run hitter, Davis will look to build on his early success in the Arizona League as he attempts to revive his career as a pitcher.

Former MLB outfielder and manager Don Baylor died Monday from multiple myeloma.
He was 68.
"Don passed from this earth with the same fierce dignity with which he played the game and lived his life," Baylor's wife, Rebecca, said in a statement, per ESPN.com.
Baylor, who won the 1979 American League MVP with the California Angels, played for six teams over a 19-year MLB career. He later went on to manage the Colorado Rockies and Chicago Cubs.
A 1967 second-round draft choice, Baylor made his debut with the Baltimore Orioles in 1970. He would later play for the Oakland Athletics, Angels, New York Yankees, Boston Red Sox and Minnesota Twins. His career ended in 1988 with a second stint in Oakland, finishing with 338 home runs and 1,276 runs batted in.
Baylor won a World Series ring with the Twins in 1987 and was a three-time Silver Slugger winner, in addition to MVP and All-Star honors in 1979. 
The Rockies hired Baylor as their first manager in 1993, a post he held until 1998. Colorado went 440-469 in Baylor's tenure and made a playoff appearance in 1995, for which he won the NL Manager of the Year Award.
After being fired following the 1998 season, Baylor took over in Chicago from 2000 to 2002. The Cubs failed to reach the postseason in each of Baylor's three seasons, and he was fired in the 2002 campaign after posting a 187-220 record.
Baylor spent time as a hitting coach for the Milwaukee Brewers, St. Louis Cardinals, Atlanta Braves, Seattle Mariners, Rockies and Angels. He was also the bench coach for the New York Mets in 2003 and 2004. 

Fact: The Los Angeles Dodgers beat the New York Mets 7-4 on Saturday, improving to 43-7 over their last 50 games. They are the first team since 1912 to win 43 games over a 50-game stretch.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: @Dodgers

Fact: The Oakland Athletics had 18 hits in their 11-10 win over the Los Angeles Angels on Sunday, setting season-high totals for runs and hits.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

The Los Angeles Dodgers kept rolling, the Boston Red Sox flexed their muscles and the Baltimore Orioles made a strong opening argument that buying at the deadline rather than selling was the right decision in the first week of action after the MLB non-waiver trade deadline.
Less than two months remain in the regular season, and there are still 19 teams within six games of a playoff spot, which should make for an exciting stretch run.
For now, remember these rankings are fluid and that teams rise and fall based on where they were ranked the previous week. If a team keeps winning, it will keep climbing—it's as simple as that.
Here's an updated look at where all 30 teams stand:
        
Biggest Risers

Boston Red Sox (Up 6 Spots)
A tidy 6-0 week that included a pair of walk-off victories has the Red Sox's arrow pointing straight up, and they're now three games ahead of the rival New York Yankees in the AL East standings.
Eduardo Nunez (42 PA, .400 BA, 1.229 OPS, 8 XBH) has been arguably the best trade pickup of the year, and top prospect Rafael Devers (49 PA, .349 BA, 1.033 OPS, 5 XBH) has made the transition to the big leagues look easy.
Dustin Pedroia's eventual return could complicate things a bit, as Nunez is playing second base, but manager John Farrell intends to keep both hot bats in the lineup.
"I think that's where [Nunez's] versatility really starts to come into play," Farrell told reporters. "And I certainly wouldn't rule out [Pedroia] DH'ing just to manage his overall volume and workload. The days off are one thing. But I think him in the DH slot, which I think he's only had one game at that position this year, that's also a possibility."
It's a good problem to have—and one the team will welcome with open arms.
Chris Sale struggled through his worst start of the season Tuesday as he gave up eight hits and seven earned runs in five innings. Boston still managed to walk away with a victory in a 12-10 slugfest with the Cleveland Indians.
The Tampa Bay Rays and Yankees await as the Red Sox look to keep their perfect August intact.
          
Baltimore Orioles (Up 3 Spots)
The Orioles are 7-2 in their past nine games, and the decision not to sell at the non-waiver trade deadline is looking more and more like the right one.
A sweep of the Kansas City Royals and a four-game split with the Detroit Tigers leaves the O's one game under .500, but that's good enough to sit just 2.5 games back in the wild-card standings with three teams to pass in order to take over the No. 2 spot.
Jeremy Hellickson (1 GS, 7.0 IP, 5 H, 0 ER) and Tim Beckham (14-for-24, 3 2B, 3 HR, 6 RBI) have both made terrific first impressions since being acquired at the deadline, and those pickups addressed two glaring areas of need.
Second baseman Jonathan Schoop has continued his breakout performance as well, leading the AL with 28 RBI since the All-Star break while hitting .333/.379/.624 and slugging seven home runs.
It all boils down to whether they have enough starting pitching to keep things rolling.
Ubaldo Jimenez (5 GS, 1-3, 5.20 ERA), Wade Miley (5 GS, 1-2, 7.36 ERA) and Chris Tillman (4 GS, 0-2, 8.66 ERA) have all been hit hard in the second half.
They'll kick off a 10-game road trip at the Los Angeles Angels on Monday as they look to improve on a 20-33 record away from Camden Yards.
       
Biggest Fallers

Chicago Cubs (Down 4 Spots)
In their defense, the Chicago Cubs had a tough schedule this past week, as they welcomed two of the best teams in the National League, the Arizona Diamondbacks and Washington Nationals, to Wrigley Field.
Still, losing both series was enough to drop them four spots after they climbed to No. 5 in the most recent standings.
The Cubs still hold a half-game lead over the Milwaukee Brewers in the NL Central, and their schedule looks awfully favorable over the next few weeks.
While they do take on the D-backs again in Arizona this coming weekend, the rest of their August slate includes the San Francisco Giants, Cincinnati Reds (twice), Toronto Blue Jays, Philadelphia Phillies, Pittsburgh Pirates and Atlanta Braves—all teams that are under .500 and more or less out of contention.
That gives them the perfect opportunity to prove last week was a minor misstep and to get things trending back in the right direction.
        
Cleveland Indians (Down 3 Spots)
The Indians dropped a two-game set to the Red Sox and split a four-game series with the Yankees last week, which was enough to drop them three spots as the Colorado Rockies, Diamondbacks and Red Sox all leapfrogged them.
However, there's little doubt they're the team to beat in the AL Central.
The Kansas City Royals failed to seize a golden opportunity and struggled through a 2-5 week of their own, leaving the Indians with a 2.5-game lead in the division entering play Monday.
Second baseman Jason Kipnis finally returned to action Sunday, going 0-for-4 with three strikeouts in his first game since July 8, when he suffered a strained right hamstring. It's been a trying season for the two-time All-Star, but he could provide a huge boost to the team if he starts swinging it well down the stretch.
With the Rockies, Rays and a makeup game against the Red Sox on the upcoming slate, the Tribe will have a chance to show they belong back inside the top five in these rankings.
         
MVPs of the Week
AL MVP: Corey Kluber, Cleveland Indians

Stats: W, 9.0 IP, 3 H, 1 ER, 1 BB, 11 K
If the season ended today, the Chris Sale vs. Corey Kluber debate for AL Cy Young honors would be a good one.
It's still advantage Sale, but it's closer than the casual observer might think, and Kluber is trending in the right direction.
The 31-year-old tossed a three-hit complete game and struck out 11 against the Yankees on Thursday. It was his third complete game of the season and the 11th time he's tallied double-digit strikeouts.
He also became just the fourth pitcher in MLB history to record at least eight strikeouts in 12 consecutive starts, joining Randy Johnson, Pedro Martinez and Nolan Ryan in that club.
"All three are guys I grew up watching and idolizing," Kluber told reporters. "To be mentioned with them is definitely an honor, and it's cool."
His next start will come Tuesday against the Colorado Rockies.
       
NL MVP: Willson Contreras, Chicago Cubs

Stats: 10-for-22, 1 2B, 5 HR, 13 RBI, 6 R
It was quite a week for Chicago Cubs catcher Willson Contreras.
"I've been locked in throughout my career in the minor leagues, but not at this level," Contreras recently told reporters. "Just simplifying things, doing simple things. I think that's the key."
To say he's "locked in" doesn't do it justice.
The 25-year-old is hitting .346/.414/.782 since the All-Star break. He's also tied for the MLB lead with 10 home runs, and his 29 RBI are tops in the majors. He's put the Cubs offense on his back over the past few weeks.
He's become the most important player on a roster that's overflowing with terrific young talent.
         
Stats of the Week
Let's dive into some of the better nuggets from around the league.
We'll start with Mike Trout, who followed Tim Salmon's lead to become one of the only two players in Los Angeles Angels history with six consecutive seasons of 20 or more home runs.
Trout still has a ways to go to chase him down for the franchise record, as Salmon hit 299 homers over the course of his 14-year career and Trout is sitting on 190.
Speaking of home runs, the Houston Astros lead the majors this year with 182 long balls, and that's not the only category where they reside in the No. 1 spot.
Their offense is also tops in team batting average (.291), on-base percentage (.351), slugging (.502), OPS (.857), hits (1,133), doubles (248), RBI (626) and runs scored (656), and they've struck out less (752) than any other team to boot.
With four more homers last week, Cody Bellinger became just the second rookie in Dodgers franchise history to top 30, joining Mike Piazza (35), who won NL Rookie of the Year honors in 1993.
Many of those homers have come in the clutch.
Cody Bellinger (@Dodgers) has hit 16 HR in the 7th inning or later this season, tying Frank Robinson's modern-era rookie record (since 1900)
Cubs catcher Contreras is keeping pace with one of the best hitters in recent memory after his big week.
Willson Contreras' 32nd career HR in his 175th game is tied with Miguel Cabrera for most HR through 175 games by a Venezuelan-born player. https://t.co/ZRMr5w0tz3
Finally, what would our stats section be without its weekly nod to how ridiculously good the Dodgers have been lately?
The @Dodgers are the first team to win 43 games in a 50-game span since the 1912 New York Giants. https://t.co/UMjUZMa4xX
There's still a lot of baseball to be played, but it's World Series title or bust for this Dodgers squad.
        
Must-See Upcoming Matchup

Boston Red Sox vs. New York Yankees (Friday-Sunday)
The 2009 season was the last time the Red Sox and Yankees both reached the postseason.
Now that rivalry is back in full swing, as Boston enters the week three games up in the AL East and New York has a 2.5-game cushion atop the wild-card standings.
The Yankees have a 6-3 lead in the season series, with the teams scheduled to meet 10 more times the rest of the way—three of which will be this coming weekend at Yankee Stadium.
Lefties Jaime Garcia and Eduardo Rodriguez go head-to-head in Game 1. The best matchup of the series comes in Game 2 when Luis Severino and Drew Pomeranz take the ball. The finale will be another battle of lefties as CC Sabathia squares off against Chris Sale.
Yankees fans will get their first look at Red Sox rookie Devers in this one, a player they figure to see plenty of in the years to come.
Nothing builds momentum for that final push like a big series victory over your archrival, so this matchup carries a bit more weight than your average three-game series in August.
               
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted and accurate through Sunday.
Looking for someone to yell at about where your favorite team was slotted in the latest rankings? I'll meet you in the comments section.

Joey Gallo might finish his first full major league season with a batting average under .200, more than 200 strikeouts and fewer than 30 singles.
Such a season has never happened. And in any other era of Major League Baseball, simply being on pace for a season like that would have made Gallo a persona non grata.
In this era, however, he's about as grata as can be.
Gallo's power is his key to fitting in. Although he's hitting only .206 in 101 games for the Texas Rangers, he's needed only 360 plate appearances to blast 30 home runs.
That's the fewest trips to the plate among the six hitters who've hit at least 30 homers in 2017. And it gives him a shot at being only the fifth hitter to get to 40 homers in fewer than 500 plate appearances.
These tidbits alone would cast Gallo a special sort of oddity. But the 23-year-old ups the ante by specializing in remarkable dingers.
This is according to Statcast, MLB's hyper-advanced tracking system that lets nothing go unmeasured. For instance: Only Giancarlo Stanton and Aaron Judge have cranked more homers at faster than 110 miles per hour than Gallo has, and only Judge has topped his high of 116.3 mph.
What does a 116.3-mph dinger look like? Oh, something like this:
Gallo doesn't just hit 'em hard. He hits 'em high, too.
The average launch angle on his homers is 30.4 degrees, fifth-highest among hitters with at least 20 homers. He's also hit an MLB-high four homers with a launch angle over 40 degrees, highlighted by a 44-degree moonshot that hung in the air for nearly seven seconds.
Nobody can say they weren't warned about this.
Power was Gallo's calling card when the Rangers chose him as a 6'5", 205-pound drink of water out of Bishop Gorman High School in Nevada with the No. 39 pick in the 2012 draft. He then put on more weight and powered his way to back-to-back 40-homer seasons in 2013 and 2014.
"Tales of Gallo's power sound like hyperbole," wrote Ben Badler for Baseball America in December of '14, "but scouts and coaches with 30-plus years of experience say Gallo hits balls as far as nearly anyone they have ever seen."
Gallo's hyperbolic power arrived in the majors in June 2015 and initially lived up to the hype. He clubbed five homers in his first 14 games, including a long poke off Los Angeles Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw.
Then Gallo went into a slump that highlighted the other thing he was known for.
He earned a demotion with a stretch in which he struck out 22 times in 40 plate appearances. He then whiffed 14 times in 25 plate appearances after getting called back up in September. Nothing changed when he resurfaced in 2016, as he fanned 19 times in 30 trips to the plate.

Gallo's strikeout curse is twofold.
His big frame creates a big strike zone for pitchers to exploit. And to make the most of his natural power, he tries for fly balls. That means swinging up at the ball. That means a less-than-direct bat path and, thus, a higher likelihood of whiffing.
"Obviously I'm not trying to strike out," Gallo told Michael Baumann of The Ringer. "But I think it's better for the player I am to go up there and swing the bat with some intent than just stick the bat out there and [say], 'Well, I just hit a ground ball to the second baseman.'"
To his credit, Gallo has changed for the better in 2017...sort of.
He's struck out 137 times for a 38.1 K%. That's an improvement on 2015 and 2016, but it's still on track to be the highest strikeout rate ever for a hitter who's qualified for the batting title.
Throw in how Gallo is also walking 12.5 percent of the time. Then throw in how his 30 homers are accompanied by only two triples, 12 doubles and 20 singles. What you get is a truly odd hitter.
And yet, also a hitter who defines modern baseball like nobody else.
In the early days, baseball was a batter vs. fielders affair. There were walks aplenty, but the guys with the gloves were rarely kept out of the action by pitchers getting their own outs (strikeouts) and hitters hitting the ball into the stands (homers).
In other words, the game didn't revolve around the so-called "three true outcomes." But that's been changing over the years, and the trend has recently changed from going steadily uphill to skyrocketing.
Whether this is a good thing is a matter of taste. But, either way, it's a movement. And it's certainly hard to imagine a more perfect spearhead for it than Gallo. 
With 58.9 percent of his plate appearances resulting in a walk, strikeout or homer, he isn't just the three true outcome king of 2017. Right now he's the all-time single-season three true outcome king:
How committed Gallo is to this life is a good question. He's been feasting on more consistency with a .304 average over his last 13 games, and he's clearly liking the taste of it.
"If I keep going on this path, I won't be a .200 hitter with 40 home runs but can hit .270 and actually be more productive on the offensive side," Gallo said Friday, per Jeff Wilson of the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. "When I talk to Adrian Beltre and our hitting coaches, they say, 'You're not a .200 hitter. You're going to be this type of hitter one day.'"
But if Gallo decides to stick with what he knows he can do well, that would also be OK.
It's easy to highlight his low batting average as a negative, but it's really not a big deal. His patience has helped push his on-base percentage to a solid .317. His power has created a more-than-solid .548 slugging percentage.
Combine the two, and you get an .865 OPS. That's .115 points higher than the MLB average. So, this guy with the .206 average is actually one of MLB's better hitters.
The Rangers have other reasons to like him, too. Gallo is a solid athlete on the bases, and he can hold his own at third base, first base or left field. His all-around value is encapsulated in his 2.3 wins above replacement. The only Rangers hitter with more is Elvis Andrus.
It is indeed Gallo's bat that defines him, however.
Its ability to produce loud noises can't be overstated, and its ability to produce must not be underestimated.
           
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.


On August 7, 2007, Barry Bonds took a characteristically compact swing and sent a baseball soaring into the foggy San Francisco night, as he had done so many times before.
This baseball carried history with it over AT&T Park's right center field wall along with 108 crimson double stitches. Here, let's relive the moment:
When Giants play-by-play man Duane Kuiper said, "Bonds stands alone," it resonated in more ways than one.
In a literal sense, that blast—No. 756 of Bonds' career—moved him past Hank Aaron and into sole possession of MLB's all-time home run record. 
In another way, Bonds already stood alone. He was the poster boy for baseball's steroid era, putting up cartoonish, unbelievable stats while marooned on an island of controversy.
Thanks to the performance-enhancing drug expose Game of Shadows and the BALCO investigation, Bonds' misdeeds became part of public record, even though he was never suspended or, ultimately, punished for any crime.
"This record is not tainted at all. At all," Bonds told reporters at the time. "Period. You guys can say whatever you want."
Ten years after Bonds recalibrated one of sports' most hallowed milestones—he finished with 762, if you forgot—it's worth asking: Will anyone ever take his (tainted) home run crown?
Albert Pujols of the Los Angeles Angels is the active home run leader with 608. The 37-year-old three-time MVP hit 31 last season and has 17 so far this year, but he would need to sustain a 30-homer average through 2020 just to sniff 700.

The Detroit Tigers' Miguel Cabrera is second among active players with 459 and is only 34 years old. Injuries have hampered him of late, however, and he hasn't tallied 40 home runs since 2013.
The only other current big leaguers in the 400-homer club are 38-year-old Adrian Beltre (454) and 40-year-old Carlos Beltran (434).
To find a legitimate challenger for Bonds, we must cast our gaze on the game's younger generation.
It begins with the Washington Nationals' Bryce Harper, who's sitting on 149 home runs at age 24. 
If Harper averaged 40 homers for the next 10 years, he'd be at or past 550 entering his age-35 season. For perspective, Bonds had 445 homers entering his age-35 campaign.

Bonds also went on a (cough, allegedly) chemically aided fence-clearing binge in his MLB twilight, but at least Harper has a shot.
So does the Los Angeles Angels' Mike Trout, who turned 26 on August 7, the anniversary of Bonds' Aaron-surpassing bomb.
With 190 long balls to date, Trout would have to sustain 40-homer pop into his early 40s. That's a tall order, but it's also a distinct possibility considering his generational skill set.
If health weren't a factor, the leader in the clubhouse would be Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins, who has smacked 244 home runs at age 27. However, Stanton has missed 133 games since the start of the 2015 season due to a litany of injuries. He has largely dodged the injury bug this year and has an MLB-leading 36 dingers entering play Monday.

The home run is back in a major way across both leagues, despite the advent of PED testing. Maybe it's revised hitting strategies and beefier players; maybe it's a juiced ball.
"We are in a period where we have bigger, stronger, faster athletes—like all sports," MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred recently told reporters.
Either way, someone feasibly could claim the mantle from Bonds eventually. 
Possibly he's a hitter yet unborn, or one taking his first hacks in tee-ball. Perhaps it'll be a just-christened slugger such as the New York Yankees' Aaron Judge or Los Angeles Dodgers' Cody Bellinger.
If we're putting money on an established big leaguer, it's Stanton. If his disabled-list luck turns around, he has the raw power to fuel a surge up the all-time leaderboard.
It won't happen this season, the one after that or the one after that. At some point, though, someone could send a 763rd baseball and its 108 stitches soaring into the night.
Hopefully, the word "tainted" will have nothing to do with it.
         
All statistics current through Sunday and courtesy of Baseball-Reference.

The Houston Astros reportedly had contact with the Detroit Tigers about a potential trade involving starting pitcher Justin Verlander.
On Sunday, Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the news, citing sources who said the contact occurred "this month." However, Morosi cautioned it is "unclear if there is momentum in talks" between the two teams.  
While the non-waiver trade deadline came and went on July 31 with Verlander still in a Tigers uniform, Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press reported the right-hander cleared revocable trade waivers.
That makes Verlander eligible to be traded this season, although his contract could pose a barrier to any potential deal. According to Spotrac, the 34-year-old will make $28 million every season until 2020, when a vesting option for $22 million kicks in.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports wrote before the non-waiver deadline "rival teams simply want no part" of Verlander's contract.
However, Houston is in a unique win-now scenario at a dominant 71-40. It is 15 games ahead of the second-place Seattle Mariners in the American League West, and anything less than a World Series appearance could be seen as a failure after such an overwhelming start to the season.
While Verlander would add a proven name to the rotation before the stretch run and playoffs, he has a 4.20 ERA and 1.41 WHIP in 137 innings. He has been nowhere near what he was as recently as 2016 with a 3.04 ERA, 1.00 WHIP and 254 strikeouts in 227.2 innings.
However, he allowed just 10 earned runs in his last six starts and is starting to show signs of the dominant pitcher he has been in the past. He still has six All-Star appearances, the 2006 AL Rookie of the Year, the 2011 AL Cy Young and the 2011 AL MVP on his resume.
Most notably from Houston's perspective, Verlander boasts a solid 3.39 ERA and 1.09 WHIP in 16 postseason starts throughout his career. He is an available veteran with playoff experience for a team looking to turn the corner in October after losing in the 2015 AL Division Series and missing the postseason entirely last year.
Now the Astros have to decide if those traits are worth the cost of Verlander's contract.
Take that you mean Dothraki #shottotheheart #andyouretoblame
https://t.co/3ZERpVDwvm
Who said the only thing New York Mets pitcher Noah Syndergaard could throw was a baseball?
Syndergaard made a cameo appearance on the hit HBO series Game of Thrones Sunday night, playing a solider in the Lannister army. 
Here's a glimpse of Syndergaard's cameo, per Complex Sports:
👀 Noah Syndergaard with the spear throw on this week's Game of Thrones.  https://t.co/VsQ7hdGvm5
As you can see, Syndergaard is accurate with a spear. All batters are now warned to never charge the mound when he is pitching. 
Easy Ridin' to the West Coast. https://t.co/z3aO8NvPfA
The Chicago Cubs are back at it again with another road trip theme, this time paying homage to the 1969 film Easy Rider.
Donning leather vests, aviator sunglasses and an anything-goes attitude, the players departed Wrigley Field Sunday after a 9-4 loss to the Washington Nationals. They will begin the trip with a three-game series against the San Francisco Giants.
The inspiration behind themed road trips comes from manager Jon Madden, who wants his players to have more fun. 
Each custom vest has a nickname for the players and coaches. Ben Zobrist's is "Zorilla," Addison Russell's is "Russ" and Javier Baez is known as "Mago," to name a few. 

The Philadelphia Phillies announced former catcher Darren Daulton died Sunday at the age of 55:
We are deeply saddened to announce the passing of 1993 NL Champion and Phillies Wall of Fame catcher Darren Daulton. https://t.co/iPHB9Rn7vg
The Phillies issued a statement and noted Daulton had brain cancer for four years before he died.
Daulton played 1,109 of his 1,161 career games from 1983 through 1997 for Philadelphia. He was a member of the 1993 World Series squad and the Phillies Wall of Fame. He also played for the then-Florida Marlins during the 1997 campaign, when they won the World Series.
"Darren was a true leader of men," Phillies chairman emeritus Bill Giles said in the team's statement. "The Phillies would not have gone to the 1993 World Series without his leadership. In addition to being an outstanding clubhouse leader, he was also a fighter. He battled through five knee operations to become an All-Star. I really enjoyed watching him for 14 years in uniform. Darren was a super human being. His teammates loved him, I loved him like he was one of my own. In fact, he called me 'Uncle Bill.'"
Daulton was a three-time All-Star and won the 1992 Silver Slugger award with a slash line of .270/.385/.524 to go with 27 home runs and a league-leading 109 RBI.
Glen Macnow of WIP in Philadelphia tweeted "every member of that pennant winner will attest that he was a terrific teammate."
According to the Phillies' statement, Daulton established the Darren Daulton Foundation in 2011. It started raising funds to fight brain cancer in 2013.

The Los Angeles Angels announced Sunday right-hander Matt Shoemaker could be out 12 to 14 weeks after he undergoes surgery to repair the radial nerve in his right forearm.
Shoemaker hasn't pitched since the Angels' 7-5 win over the New York Yankees on June 14. He went three innings, allowing four earned runs on six hits before making way for Parker Bridwell.
The expected timetable for Shoemaker's return means the 30-year-old right-hander will almost certainly miss the remainder of the 2017 season. He has made 14 starts this year, going 6-3 and posting a 4.52 ERA and a 5.11 FIP, per Baseball Reference.
While the Angels have been without Shoemaker for over a month, the fact he's now out for the year is undoubtedly a blow to a team that's just three games back of the Kansas City Royals for the final wild-card spot in the American League.
Injuries have hammered Los Angeles' starting rotation, with Andrew Heaney still recovering from his Tommy John surgery last year and Garrett Richards nursing a biceps injury.
The Orange County Register's Jeff Fletcher reported Shoemaker's forearm issue isn't expected to linger into next year, so the Angels should at least expect him to be back to his best in 2018.
🎶 Purple Rain....Purple Rain... 🎶 

Off to Minneapolis in style. ✈️ https://t.co/OSXGv4mHqc
The Milwaukee Brewers are used to wearing matching uniforms, but not quite like this.
The Brewers posed for a photo on the tarmac, each dressed in purple clothing honoring the late singer Prince before boarding a plane to Minneapolis.
The Brewers begin a four-game series with Prince's hometown Twins on Monday.
With purple dress shirts, soccer jerseys, a Willy Wonka outfit and even a dinosaur costume, the Brewers certainly made it rain purple.
As for the Minnesota Vikings jersey, it's safe to say that there will be some Milwaukee fans less than pleased to see that. 

The Oakland Athletics announced Sunday they traded first baseman Yonder Alonso to the Seattle Mariners for outfielder Boog Powell.
Alonso is enjoying a breakout campaign with a .266/.369/.527 triple-slash line and 22 home runs across 100 games in 2017. His previous career-high total in homers was nine.
USA Today's Bob Nightengale noted how Alonso's production has dipped, however, in the second half:
Yonder Alonso had terrific 1st half making All Star team, batting .275 w 20 HRs and .934 OPS; but hitting .230 w 2 HRS, .733 OPS since break
The 30-year-old University of Miami product is set to become a free agent for the first time during the offseason, which made it perfect timing for this season's power outburst. Add in the fact the A's have struggled to remain in playoff contention, and he became expendable.
In June, the Cuba native told Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports he was "open" to an extension with Oakland, but his MLB journey also prepared him for the potential of another move.
"I've been around," Alonso said. "I've got six years under my belt. I've stunk. I've been hurt. I've almost gotten released. I've been traded. I've sat, gotten benched and started. I've done it all."
The biggest question following the trade is which version of Alonso to expect in his new home.
Last year, he finished with the second-worst WAR among qualified position players (-0.3), per Fangraphs. In addition, the prolific pop he's displayed this year was mostly absent as he tallied just seven home runs despite playing 156 games.
He's been a completely different player in 2017. His improvement at the plate allowed him to earn a selection to the All-Star Game.
The Mariners were willing to take a chance his performance this season hasn't been a mirage. The major uptick in his homer-to-fly-ball ratio (up 15.9 percent) creates some risk, so the fact Alonso is on a rental contract likely made it easier for the Mariners to pull the trigger.
Look for him to slot in the middle of Seattle's lineup alongside Robinson Cano, Kyle Seager and Nelson Cruz.

New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi benched catcher Gary Sanchez for Sunday's game against the Cleveland Indians, citing Sanchez's poor defense.
"The start is not the message," Girardi said, per ESPN.com's Andrew Marchand. "The message came from us verbally that, 'Your defense needs to improve. That you need to get better. You need to work at it.' We have stressed how important it is. There are certain situations that some people may not think that something that happens in the game affects the next game. It could if it leads to 10 extra pitches for a reliever."
Sanchez is one of the better offensive catchers in MLB. Through 77 games, he's slugging .488 with 17 home runs and 52 RBI.
Sanchez's defense has been another story. According to Baseball Prospectus, he's 13th in framing runs (4.0) and 81st in blocking runs (minus-1.3), the latter of which was a big reason for his benching.
Sanchez allowed Austin Jackson to score Cleveland's second run in the Indians' 7-2 win on Friday, bringing his passed ball total to a league-high 12 in 2017.
"He needs to improve. Bottom line," Girardi said after the game, per the New York Daily News' Mike Mazzeo. "... He's late getting down. That's what I see sometimes, and it's something we've been working on and we continue to work on. He's capable of doing a better job."
The Yankees entered Sunday three games behind the Boston Red Sox in the American League East and 1.5 ahead of the Kansas City Royals, who own the second wild-card spot in the AL.
While Girardi wants to see better defense from Sanchez, he'll have to balance that with the need for Sanchez to be a part of the lineup. The Yankees offense is far better with Sanchez than with Austin Romine.
Girardi opted to use Brett Gardner as the team's designated hitter Sunday and explained why he doesn't plan on using Sanchez there often.
"I think if he catches to his ability, then we can DH other people and have his bat in the lineup," Girardi said, per Marchand. "I think that is where we will be at our best."
Despite him being a defensive liability at times, the Yankees have little choice but to rely on Sanchez as their everyday catcher as they make their push for the playoffs.
VIDEO: Marlins minor leaguers swim in flooded dugout 😂 https://t.co/dPf35odVB9 https://t.co/Hw9ZaVV3ZM
They may make the game unplayable, but rainouts can have their perks. 
A couple of players from the Miami Marlins Triple-A affiliates, the New Orleans Baby Cakes, found the silver lining among the dark clouds that flooded the field for their scheduled game against the El Paso Chihuahuas on Saturday.
Catcher Austin Nola took the opportunity to take a quick dip into the dugout-turned-pool at the Shrine on Airline stadium once the game was postponed.
Spotted: Austin Nola swimming in the dugout 🏊

#CakeNation https://t.co/a5Bz48zPat

[Twitter]


With a come-from-behind 7-4 victory over the New York Mets on Saturday, the Los Angeles Dodgers have completed the best 50-game stretch in Major League Baseball since 1912 by going 43-7. 
The Dodgers tweeted out a celebratory photo of this incredible hot streak that began June 7:
Move over 42-8… #LetsGoDodgers https://t.co/wBUSgSS2QI
The Dodgers' run of 43 wins in 50 games was last done by the New York Giants 105 years ago. That team went on to post a 103-48 record before losing to the Boston Red Sox in the World Series. 
Though the 2017 Dodgers' postseason fate is unknown, they are keeping exclusive company. Los Angeles owns MLB's best record at 78-32, 7.5 games ahead of the Houston Astros for home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. 
The Dodgers' current winning percentage of .709 has them on pace to win 115 games. The 1906 Chicago Cubs and 2001 Seattle Mariners hold the MLB record with 116 wins in the regular season, though neither went on to win the World Series.

Oakland Athletics outfielder Matt Joyce has been suspended for two games without pay after using an anti-gay slur during an exchange with a fan during Friday's game against the Los Angeles Angels. 
Major League Baseball's communications department announced Joyce's suspension would begin on Saturday. 
Associated Press photographer Mark J. Terrill said he overheard Joyce utter "several profanities" toward the fan and use "an anti-gay slur and [challenging] him to fight" while returning to the dugout in the eighth inning, per the Associated Press (via ESPN.com). 
The A's issued a statement on Twitter about Joyce's comments after his suspension was announced: 
"The A's are disappointed by the comments Matt Joyce made to a fan last night. This language is unacceptable & will not be tolerated. We pride ourselves on being inclusive and expect our entire organization to live up to higher standards. We appreciate that Matt is contrite about his conduct and know he will learn from this incident."
Joyce apologized for his comments in a series of tweets posted on Saturday:
"In regard to last night's incident, I first and foremost want to sincerely apologize to the fans, the Oakland A's, MLB and most importantly the LGBTQ community for my comments and actions. A fan yelled vulgar and obscene words about me and my family and I let my frustrations and emotions get the better of me. I am beyond sorry for the inappropriate language that I used and understand and agree that those words should NEVER come out of someone's mouth no matter the situation. Anyone who knows me will tell you that incident it is not reflective of me as a person, how I treat others, how I live my life and that those hurtful words are not my views. I fully support and hope to help the LGBTQ community with their efforts in being treated fairly and intend to let my actions speak louder than anything more that can be said about this truly regrettable moment."
Joyce played all nine innings in the Athletics' 8-6 loss against the Angels on Friday. He is in his first season with Oakland after signing a two-year deal with the club during the offseason. 
The 33-year-old is hitting just .227/.336/.421 in 98 games this season. His 14 home runs are his most in a season since 2013 and rank fourth on the A's.
Joyce will be eligible to return from his suspension on Tuesday when the A's host the Seattle Mariners. 

Kansas City Royals catcher Salvador Perez could miss extended time after suffering an intercostal strain after leaving Friday's game against the Seattle Mariners. 
Pete Grathoff of the Kansas City Star reported Perez's injury, adding the Royals will re-evaluate him in 48 hours to determine a potential roster move. 
Grathoff added Royals manager Ned Yost is "relieved" Perez didn't suffer an oblique strain, which typically has a "recovery time of about 8 weeks" and an intercostal strain could have "half" of that recovery time. 
Perez was removed from Friday's game after six innings. He appeared to be wincing in pain following a strikeout against Mariners starter James Paxton in the bottom of the sixth. 
Royals backup catcher Drew Butera took over for Perez behind the plate in the top of the seventh inning. Butera is also in the team's starting lineup for Saturday's game, hitting eighth. 
Losing Perez for an extended period of time would be a huge loss for the Royals, who trail the Cleveland Indians by 3.5 games in the American League Central and are in the second AL wild-card spot. 
The 27-year-old Perez was the AL starting catcher in the All-Star Game. He ranks second on the Royals with 21 home runs and a .510 slugging percentage. 

Oakland Athletics outfielder Matt Joyce apologized Saturday for yelling a gay slur toward a fan during Friday's 8-6 loss to the Los Angeles Angels.
In a series of tweets, Joyce expressed remorse and offered support to the LGBTQ community:
"In regard to last night's incident, I first and foremost want to sincerely apologize to the fans, the Oakland A's, MLB and most importantly the LGBTQ community for my comments and actions. A fan yelled vulgar and obscene words about me and my family and I let my frustrations and emotions get the better of me. I am beyond sorry for the inappropriate language that I used and understand and agree that those words should NEVER come out of someone's mouth no matter the situation. Anyone who knows me will tell you that incident it is not reflective of me as a person, how I treat others, how I live my life and that those hurtful words are not my views. I fully support and hope to help the LGBTQ community with their efforts in being treated fairly and intend to let my actions speak louder than anything more that can be said about this truly regrettable moment."
According to the Associated Press (via ESPN.com), AP photographer Mark J. Terrill reported Joyce used the gay slur while he was heading toward the dugout after grounding out in the eighth inning.
In addition to his apology, Joyce said immediately after the game that he regretted engaging with the fan:
"It's just one of those things that fans kind of get into the game. Obviously, we're pretty frustrated on our side and I had just hit a ball hard and had [Angels first baseman C.J.] Cron make a good play. I was walking back to the dugout and just had a fan yell some vulgar and obscene words. For me it just wasn't the right time to say some stuff like that. I fired back and obviously as soon as you fire back you regret saying anything, because it's just not worth it."
The A's released a statement on Joyce on Saturday, per Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle:
A's release statement on Matt Joyce's use of homophobic slur last night: https://t.co/YL2gZuEsmT
Joyce went 1-for-4 and is hitting .227 with 14 home runs and 43 RBI on the season.
Oakland is struggling through a difficult campaign, as it is last in the American League West with a record of 48-62.

The San Francisco Giants announced Saturday they added Pablo Sandoval to the 25-man active roster after placing Brandon Belt on the seven-day concussion protocol.  
The Giants signed Sandoval, who played with the team from 2008 to 2014, on July 22 after the Boston Red Sox released him a few days earlier. In 32 games, Sandoval is batting .212 with four home runs and 12 RBI.
Alex Pavlovic of NBC Sports Bay Area reported the Giants will re-evaluate Belt for a concussion after he was hit by a pitch from Arizona Diamondbacks starter Anthony Banda.
Pavlovic noted Belt has had three concussions already in his career, so the Giants may opt to shut him down for the rest of the season since they're already well out of the playoff race.
If that's the case, then Sandoval would have an extended opportunity to make an impression on the Giants or another MLB team over the remainder of the campaign.
The 30-year-old enjoyed a successful stretch during his first spell with the Giants. He helped the team win three World Series titles and was the World Series MVP in 2012.
Still, fans know better than to expect the same hitter who had a .294/.346/.465 slash line during his seven seasons in San Francisco. The fact the Red Sox released Sandoval two-and-a-half years into a five-year, $95 million deal illustrates how poorly he was playing in Boston prior to his departure.
Sandoval didn't exactly tear the cover off the ball with the Giants' Triple-A affiliate, the Sacramento River Cats, either. He went 6-for-29 with one homer and three RBI in nine games.
With nothing left to play for over the next month, however, the Giants have good reason to call up Sandoval. Not only is he an experienced replacement for Belt, but the team can also get a better idea as to whether he'll offer any value going forward.

MLB.com's Mark Bowman reported Saturday that the Atlanta Braves traded utility man Sean Rodriguez to the Pittsburgh Pirates in exchange for a catching prospect.
Per Bowman, the trade was completed after the Pirates claimed Rodriguez off waivers.
Rodriguez appeared in just 15 games for the Braves this season, hitting .162 with two home runs and three RBI. The 32-year-old veteran missed more than three months after suffering a shoulder injury in a January car accident.
Rodriguez played for the Pirates in 2015 and 2016, and last season was the best of his 10-year MLB career. He hit .270 with 18 home runs and 56 RBI, all of which were career highs by substantial margins.
Rodriguez is valuable because of his versatility, as he has played every position except catcher during his time in the majors. His most familiar spot is second base, where he's made 301 appearances, but he mostly played shortstop and first base with Pittsburgh in 2016.
Rodriguez figures to play all over the diamond upon his return to the Pirates, much like fellow Pittsburgh utility player Josh Harrison.

The Seattle Mariners on Saturday reportedly placed starting pitcher Felix Hernandez on the 10-day disabled list with right biceps tendinitis.
MLB.com's Greg Johns tweeted the news.
Hernandez's trip to the DL was retroactive to Wednesday, and Johns noted the team would call up left-hander Marco Gonzales, who made his season debut in June but has spent the bulk of his year in Triple-A.
This move marked another setback for Seattle's ace after he missed time earlier in the season with a shoulder injury.
Hernandez has been durable throughout his career, however, and he entered the 2017 campaign with 11 straight seasons of 25 or more starts (the first 10 of which featured 30 or more starts).
The six-time All-Star and 2010 American League Cy Young Award winner has a 4.28 ERA and 5.20 FIP in 2017, per Baseball-Reference.com. He's attempting to rediscover the form that made him one of baseball's best pitchers during his prime. From 2009 to 2014, Hernandez posted a 2.73 ERA and 1.10 WHIP with 1,358 strikeouts and 356 walks in 1,394.1 innings.
The Mariners will have to rely on other starters—such as James Paxton, Ariel Miranda and Erasmo Ramirez—while Hernandez is out. While it is unfair to expect any of them to replicate Hernandez's formerly fine form, they can at least help keep Seattle afloat in the postseason race until he is ready to return.

New York Mets outfielder Curtis Granderson reportedly cleared revocable waivers, which means he's eligible to get moved even though the MLB non-waiver trade deadline passed Monday.
Ken Rosenthal‏ of Fox Sports first passed along the news Saturday.
Granderson is having a down season with the Mets. He's posted a .223/.330/.446 triple-slash line with 14 home runs and three stolen bases through 101 games.
New York has struggled to remain in the playoff race, sitting 12.5 games behind the final wild-card spot in the National League. That combined with the fact Granderson is making $15 million in the final season of his contract make him expendable.
Jon Heyman‏ of FanRag Sports noted before the deadline there was some interest from contenders who viewed the 36-year-old veteran as a left-handed bench bat.
For his part, Granderson said last month he'd be interested in re-signing with the Mets over the winter if the organization wanted him back, per Charles Cotton and Ethan Sears of the New York Post.
"If the opportunity presents itself and they show the interest just like they did prior to when I was a free agent, I would love to [stay in New York]," he said. "This has been a great organization, a great city base and a great fanbase. The guys on this team have been really good to me, and I've enjoyed playing here for four years."
The Milwaukee Brewers are a potential landing spot. They are caught in a fierce battle with the Chicago Cubs in the NL Central, just a half-game behind the defending World Series champions at 58-53, and could benefit from an upgrade in center, as they rank 24th in OPS at the position this season, according to ESPN.com.
Granderson could add depth to the Milwaukee lineup, and his contract situation should limit both the Brew Crew's risk and the Mets' asking price.

Fact: Giancarlo Stanton hit two home runs against the Atlanta Braves on Friday night, his eighth multi-home-run game this season. Last season, Yasmany Tomas led the majors with seven such games.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

Oakland Athletics outfielder Matt Joyce used an anti-gay slur Friday night during a verbal exchange with a fan while the A's were playing the Los Angeles Angels on the road.
Associated Press photographer Mark J. Terrill provided details, though he admitted to not hearing the beginning of the conversation, per ESPN.com. The Oakland right fielder said following the game he felt "regret" about the situation.
"It's just one of those things that fans kind of get into the game. Obviously, we're pretty frustrated on our side, and I had just hit a ball hard and had Cron [first baseman C.J. Cron] make a good play," he said.
"I was walking back to the dugout and just had a fan yell some vulgar and obscene words. For me, it just wasn't the right time to say some stuff like that. I fired back, and obviously as soon as you fire back, you regret saying anything, because it's just not worth it."
He released an apology on Twitter on Saturday:
"In regard to last night's incident, I first and foremost want to sincerely apologize to the fans, the Oakland A's, MLB and the most importantly the LGBTQ community for my comments and actions. A fan yelled vulgar and obscene words about me and my family and I let my frustrations and emotions get the better of me. I am beyond sorry for the inappropriate language that I used and understand and agree that those words should NEVER come out of someone's mouth no matter the situation. Anyone who knows me will tell you that incident it is not reflective of me as a person, how I treat others, how I live my life and that those hurtful words are not my views. I fully support and hope to help the LGBTQ community with their efforts in being treated fairly and intend to let my actions speak louder than anything more that can be said about this truly regrettable moment."
Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle provided a statement from the A's:
A's release statement on Matt Joyce's use of homophobic slur last night: https://t.co/YL2gZuEsmT
Joyce is playing his 10th season in the major leagues. He previously made stops with the Detroit Tigers, Tampa Bay Rays, Pittsburgh Pirates and the Angels before signing a two-year deal with Oakland last November.
The 33-year-old Florida native earned an All-Star Game selection with Tampa in 2011. He's posted a .227/.336/.421 triple-slash line with 14 home runs in 98 games so far this season with the A's.
Los Angeles went on to win Friday's game 8-6. Joyce drove home Matt Chapman with an RBI double in the sixth inning for his only hit of the contest.
It's unclear whether he'll face any team or league discipline for the incident.
In May, Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Kevin Pillar was suspended two games in a joint decision by MLB and the Jays for his use of a homophobic slur during a game against the Atlanta Braves.
Giancarlo Stanton hammers his 34th home run of the season to center field, tying the game at 1 in the top of the 4th inning!!! #LetsGoFish https://t.co/bAT7uS1DfX
Giancarlo Stanton has consistently racked up homers for the Marlins all season, and Friday evening was no different. 
As Miami faced off against the Braves in Atlanta, the Marlins were having a rough first few innings against knuckleballer R.A. Dickey.
But in the top of the fourth, Stanton hammered the pitch deep into center field, leveling the playing field at 1-1. 
The new MLB home run leader pulled a repeat in the sixth, this time blasting the ball to left field at 107 mph.
Once again, there's a new home run leader.

Giancarlo Stanton blasts his 2nd of the game off Dickey, his MLB-leading 35th of the season. https://t.co/EOEgGWrqy3
Stanton did what he could, but Miami lost for the third time in five games, 5-3.

If Yu Darvish's Dodgers debut is any indication of future performance, they're not going to be missing any of the prospects they sent to Texas any time soon.
Darvish threw seven near-flawless innings Friday against the New York Mets, giving up just three hits and striking out 10. Josh Fields relieved Darvish in the eighth inning, and Luis Avilan closed it out in the ninth to give the Dodgers a 6-0 victory.
Darvish, acquired in a deadline-day deal with the Rangers, showed no signs of the struggles that afflicted him in July. After allowing runners on first and second with one out in the first, Darvish retired the next five batters he faced to get into a rhythm that would propel him through the start.
"I wasn't worried about being with the Dodgers in my first outing," Darvish said after the game, per David Schoenfield of ESPN.com. "I gave up 10 runs in my last game, so there was a little nervousness just coming back from that."
The righty did not allow a runner to get past second base for his final six innings and finished off the performance by striking out the side in the seventh. 
"I got a big hug from Yu after his outing," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said. "He's already blending in with the other players, and you can just see the joy."
The Dodgers are counting on Darvish to continue helping anchor what should be the best rotation in baseball come October. Clayton Kershaw's health is paramount, but adding Darvish to a rotation that already includes Rich Hill and Alex Wood is borderline unfair.
Assuming he's gotten all the pitch-tipping kinks worked out of his system, Darvish could be the piece that shifts the World Series picture. For one night, he looked the part. 

New York Mets outfielder Jay Bruce cleared waivers Friday, paving the way for him to be traded to any team before the Aug. 31 waiver deadline. 
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported the news.
Bruce, 30, is owed $4 million for the remainder of the 2017 season. He's hitting .269/.325/.531 with 29 home runs and 75 runs batted in this season, his first full year in New York.
"I feel like this is the most consistent I've been, which is huge," Bruce said last month, per Mark Carig of Newsday. "I pride myself on playing every single day, preparing, being ready to go, being the guy you can count on to post, and being a quality piece to a winning team. Individually this year, so far I've done that."
The same report said Bruce was not garnering much interest on the trade market despite his solid power numbers. That he cleared waivers with a relatively manageable $4 million remaining for this season only serves to confirm that narrative.
Rosenthal noted the teams on Bruce's no-trade list: 
Jay Bruce's no-trade list, from a source: NYY, PHI, MIA, MIN, AZ, OAK, TB, TOR. However, almost certainly would approve trade to contender.
From a numbers standpoint, it doesn't make all that much sense. FanGraphs measures Bruce as a 2.2-win player this season, his best total since 2013. While never a particularly good defensive outfielder, metrics have him being vastly better than he was any of the previous three seasons.
American League teams in need of pop could use him as a designated hitter and platoon him in a corner outfield spot. With Bruce hitting free agency at the end of the year, the Mets aren't likely to ask for much in terms of prospects.
Logically, Bruce should have been moved by the deadline. Now that he's cleared waivers, teams will probably start looking to pounce closer to deadline, when their financial obligation will be at its very bare minimum. 

Former MLB commissioner Fay Vincent said he believes legalized sports gambling is an inevitability that will fundamentally alter sports as we know it. 
"I know that [gambling] is precisely why these prices are going up," Vincent told ESPN's David Purdum of the prices of sports franchises. "I've been really astonished and can't believe, with the amount of money that's going to flow to sports if gambling is permitted, that it's not a subject of interest. And no one seems to be paying attention."
Vincent, 79, was MLB's commissioner from September 1989 to September 1992. He's been opposed to the reinstatement of Pete Rose and testified in support of the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, which restricted sports gambling to Nevada in 1992.
"In those days, we were very adamant against betting, because we had just been dealt and were dealing with the Pete Rose case," Vincent said. "We saw the risks and the danger of corruption, and we saw that the mafia was involved in some of the things we investigated. It's dangerous, and it's still dangerous. But I think the American public wants to bet, and it's already betting."
Since the institution of PASPA, illegal sports gambling has become rampant across the United States. Underground bookmakers have taken wagers for years, and the proliferation of the internet has made it even easier for fans to gamble. Offshore books and credit card companies have attempted to crackdown on illegal wagering, but anyone with the desire will be able to find a way.
By working to legalize sports gambling, leagues could find a way to share in the revenue generated. Betting kiosks are regular fixtures in sports stadiums across Europe, and the NFL has shut them down whenever it has taken its yearly trips to England.
"I don't know how the feds or the states are going to act, but the money will come to the leagues one way or another," Vincent said. "It will go to the teams. The unions are going to want a cut of it. The amount of money is going to mean enormous increases in players' compensation, and officials, too; I mean the entire sporting world is going to benefit enormously."

The Arizona Diamondbacks and Chicago Cubs squared off for the final contest of their three-game set Thursday afternoon.
Arizona managed to take down the defending champs and earn a series victory with a 10-8 win, while Paul Goldschmidt and Willson Contreras hogged the spotlight. The two were both hitting cleanup Thursday and each collected three hits and six RBI in the contest. The duo's effort made them the first pair of four-hole hitters to drive in six runs in the same game since MLB started recording RBI in 1920, per the Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com).
Both Goldschmidt and Contreras left the yard on multiple occasions as well. The Cubs' catcher went deep twice off of Arizona Diamondbacks starting pitcher Zack Greinke while Goldschmidt took Cubs starter Jose Quintana yard twice and also hit a homer off closer Wade Davis for three on the day.
Goldschmidt's output boosted him to 25 home runs on the season, good for a seventh-place tie among National League hitters in the category so far this season. However, Goldy has supplied an additional 15 stolen bases, ranking first among players with as many or more homers than him. His .320 batting average also ranks second among those hitters to Colorado Rockies outfielder Charlie Blackmon.
Contreras is no slouch either, having racked up 18 round-trippers of his own entering Friday's action. The catcher position also necessitates more days off, so he's played 21 fewer games than Goldschmidt thus far.
Arizona and Chicago remain two primary playoff contenders in the early portions of August. Assuming the two clubs earn a playoff bid, there's a chance the franchises will square off again during the postseason with much more on the line.

Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Justin Verlander has reportedly cleared revocable trade waivers, which makes him eligible to be dealt following Monday's non-waiver MLB trade deadline.
Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press provided the status update Friday.
Verlander was linked to the Chicago Cubs leading up to the deadline, but Jon Morosi‏ of MLB Network reported the reigning World Series champions showed "reluctance" to take on his massive contract.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports heard similar feedback from league sources, who noted other organizations "simply want no part" of the longtime Tigers ace's contract.
The 34-year-old six-time All-Star selection is scheduled to make $28 million in every season through 2019 with a vesting option for 2020 at $22 million.
That's a high price to pay for a starter who's struggled with consistency through the 2016 season. He's posted a 4.29 ERA and 1.44 WHIP through 22 starts, though his strikeout numbers remain strong with 126 punchouts in 130 innings.
Verlander was much better last year, posting a 3.04 ERA and 1.00 WHIP in 34 outings.
He said before the deadline the rumors represented a win-win situation because he'd either get to stay with the Tigers or likely land with a title contender.
"I guess that makes it easier on me personally," Verlander told reporters. "I definitely would not be upset about staying here in Detroit, and again, because I control my own destiny, it wouldn't be somewhere I don't want to go [if a trade happens]."
A trade is still a long shot unless Detroit decides to take on a significant portion of his future salary or a World Series hopeful becomes desperate for a major addition down the stretch. Clearing waivers keeps the possibility on the table, though.

Chicago Cubs shortstop Addison Russell suffered a foot injury that has landed him on the 10-day disabled list.
The Cubs announced Friday that Russell had been placed on the DL, retroactive to Aug. 2.
Russell demonstrated his formidable power from the shortstop role in 2016 with 21 home runs and 95 RBI. He also drilled a grand slam in Chicago's Game 6 victory in the World Series against the Cleveland Indians and is a potent bat in the everyday lineup.
The 23-year-old has already dealt with shoulder concerns this season that have hampered his overall performance. He's hitting just .241/.305/.417 with 10 home runs in 97 games. 
Fortunately for the Cubs, they still have the versatile Javier Baez to cover shortstop while Russell is out. Ian Happ or Ben Zobrist can handle second base while Baez is at short. Infield depth is one of the biggest assets of the Cubs roster, especially down the stretch this season. 
Chicago also boasts plenty of dangerous hitters, including Kris Bryant, Willson Contreras, Anthony Rizzo and Kyle Schwarber to carry the offense while Russell is out.

Fact: Corey Kluber threw a complete game and struck out 11 in the Cleveland Indians' 5-1 win over the New York Yankees on Thursday, becoming only the second pitcher in baseball this season, after Max Scherzer, to have multiple complete games with 10 or more strikeouts. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

It's time for another round of way-too-early postseason predictions that are sure to upset almost everyone.
With the trade deadline passed, we now have a good idea of what clubs are going to look like over the final two months and on into October.
While the AL West, NL East and NL West champs are all but decided and the NL wild-card race is not shaping up to be much of a battle, the other three division titles are still up for grabs, and the AL wild-card field features nine teams within 5.5 games.
We've taken a crack at predicting the 10-team playoff field and then hypothetically played things out with those teams all the way to the World Series, including crowning the 2017 champions.

AL East Winner: Boston Red Sox
The Red Sox have not won consecutive division titles since the 1915 and 1916 seasons.
Expect that to finally change this year.
They haven't been the same offensive juggernaut we saw a year ago, and they've dealt with their fair share of injuries—including Dustin Pedroia, David Price and Joe Kelly all landing on the disabled list at the end of July.
Still, their starting rotation looks like a safer bet to perform down the stretch than that of the rival New York Yankees. Plus, the potential impact of adding Eduardo Nunez and Rafael Devers to the lineup can't be overlooked.
Expect a full-on battle right down to the season's final days with the Red Sox coming out on top and avoiding having to burn Chris Sale in the Wild Card Game.
       
AL Central Winner: Cleveland Indians
After reaching the World Series last year and then adding slugger Edwin Encarnacion on a team-record deal in free agency, most expected the Indians to run away with the AL Central title.
Instead, they've yet to build a lead of more than three games in the standings as the Kansas City Royals have rallied from a dismal start to climb squarely back into the playoff picture.
While the Indians didn't make a splash at the trade deadline—adding reliever Joe Smith to an already stocked bullpen was their only move—getting starter Danny Salazar back healthy and pitching at a high level will trump any outside addition they could have made.
In the end, starting pitching is the great equalizer down the stretch, and Corey Kluber, Carlos Carrasco, Mike Clevinger and Salazar looks an awful lot more intimidating than Jason Vargas, Danny Duffy, Ian Kennedy and Trevor Cahill.
Sorry, Royals.
      
AL West Winner: Houston Astros
With a 15-game lead over the Seattle Mariners in the AL West standings and a 9.5-game lead over the Red Sox for the best record in the American League, this is not exactly what you would call a bold prediction.
Really, what more needs to be said?
Fun fact: The Astros have never won an AL West title. Their last division crown came in 2001 when they still resided in the NL Central.
      
AL Wild Card No. 1: New York Yankees
The addition of Sonny Gray was the headline-grabbing move for the Yankees at the deadline, but bolstering the bullpen with Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson in an effort to shorten games could prove equally important down the stretch.
Still, with an offense that's averaging 5.2 runs per game and one of the league's deepest relief corps, it will all come down to the performance of the starting rotation.
Luis Severino, Masahiro Tanaka, CC Sabathia and rookie Jordan Montgomery are currently pitching alongside Gray and fellow deadline addition Jaime Garcia. There's plenty of upside with that group, but a fair level of uncertainty as well.
With a 32-20 record at Yankee Stadium and a 25-30 mark on the road, securing the right to host the Wild Card Game will be significant.
     
AL Wild Card No. 2: Seattle Mariners
This is by far the most wide-open spot in this year's playoff field.
The Kansas City Royals and Tampa Bay Rays are currently ahead of the Mariners in the standings, while the Los Angeles Angels, Baltimore Orioles, Minnesota Twins and Texas Rangers are all within five games of claiming that No. 2 spot.
We'll go with the hot hand here, though, as the Mariners have posted an AL-best record of 12-8 since the All-Star break.
They may not have made a splash at the deadline, but shoring up the rotation with Erasmo Ramirez and adding David Phelps in a setup role addressed the most glaring areas of need.
The M's are chasing their first postseason berth since 2001, and in his second year at the helm, general manager Jerry Dipoto delivers.

NL East Winner: Washington Nationals
The Nationals are a lock to claim their fourth division title in the past six years.
They've held at least a share of the NL East lead since all the way back on April 16, and with their cushion swelling to 12 games here in early August, no one from baseball's weakest division is going to chase them down.
Will the additions of Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson and Brandon Kintzler be enough to stabilize what was one of the worst relief corps in baseball?
None of those guys are on the level of the Andrew Miller and Aroldis Chapman pickups we saw a year ago, but they still represent a significant upgrade.
     
NL Central Winner: Chicago Cubs
The Milwaukee Brewers' lead in the NL Central peaked at 5.5 games at the All-Star break.
Since then, the Brew Crew has gone 7-12, and the Cubs trail only the Los Angeles Dodgers with a 14-5 record while posting a staggering plus-43 run differential.
An inconsistent starting staff was perhaps the biggest reason for the team's underwhelming play early in the season. 
Now, it looks like a clear strength once again, as the starters have gone 11-2 with a 2.97 ERA and 0.98 WHIP since the break.
Their lead over the Brewers currently stands at just 1.5 games, but those two clubs are clearly headed in opposite directions right now.
     
NL West Winner: Los Angeles Dodgers
Simply put, the Dodgers are the best team in baseball right now.
A 22-18 start left them in third place in the NL West standings on May 16.
Since then, they've gone an absurd 54-14 with a plus-137 run differential and simply steamrolled the rest of the NL field.
There's a very good chance the NL West will produce three playoff teams this year, yet the Dodgers currently hold a 14-game lead in the standings. And after landing Yu Darvish, Tony Watson and Tony Cingrani at the deadline, they're not looking back.
     
NL Wild Card No. 1: Arizona Diamondbacks
It's easy to forget that the Diamondbacks lost 93 games a year ago.
Now they're eight games over .500 and comfortably in position to reach the playoffs for the first time since 2011.
The offense is averaging 5.0 runs per game and boasts an imposing middle of the order, with July pickup J.D. Martinez joining Paul Goldschmidt and Jake Lamb.
Meanwhile, the starting rotation ranks second in the majors with a 3.55 ERA—a far cry from its NL-worst 5.19 ERA from a year ago.
As long as Robbie Ray returns strong from taking a liner to the head on July 28 and suffering a concussion, this team should coast into the Wild Card Game.
      
NL Wild Card No. 2: Colorado Rockies
The Rockies have a 5.5-game lead over a slumping Brewers team for the second wild-card spot, with the St. Louis Cardinals (8.5 back), Pittsburgh Pirates (9.5 back) and Miami Marlins (9.5 back) hanging on the periphery.
It's fair to wonder whether starters Kyle Freeland, German Marquez and Jeff Hoffman will eventually hit the rookie wall, but their starting staff has been good enough as a whole, and their bullpen is so vastly improved that even if one of them does start to fade, the club should still be in decent shape.
They still have the juggernaut offense we've seen in years past; they just finally have a good enough stable of arms to back it up.
Not hosting the Wild Card Game would obviously be a disadvantage, but they've held their own away from Coors Field this year with a 29-27 record on the road.

(1) Houston Astros over (WC1) New York Yankees
The Astros bumped the Yankees from the playoffs with a Wild Card Game victory in 2015, and they'll look to send them packing once again.
New York fans will no doubt cringe at the prospect of seeing Dallas Keuchel in this series, as the Astros ace has gone 5-2 with a 1.24 ERA, 0.79 WHIP and 9.2 K/9 in seven career starts against the Yankees.
That includes six scoreless innings of three-hit ball in that aforementioned Wild Card Game.
With all the ingredients necessary for postseason success—good starting pitching, a deep bullpen, a stacked lineup and plenty of veteran experience—we'll say Astros in four.
     
(3) Boston Red Sox over (2) Cleveland Indians
The two teams many expected to be playing for the AL pennant when the season began instead meet up here in the ALDS. 
The Indians probably have the deeper starting rotation, and we all saw what Corey Kluber did in the role of ace last October, but the Red Sox still have as dangerous a lineup as any team in baseball and their own stable of starters capable of twirling a gem every time they take the ball.
Who wouldn't want to see a Game 5 in this one, with Chris Sale taking the ball against Klubot for the right to advance to the ALCS?
That's exactly how things unfold, and in his first career playoff series, Sale bounces back from a rocky Game 1 start with eight scoreless innings in the clincher.

(1) Los Angeles Dodgers over (WC1) Arizona Diamondbacks
After burning Zack Greinke in the Wild Card Game, the Diamondbacks enter this series at a distinct disadvantage.
Clayton Kershaw and Yu Darvish hold the experience edge over the young duo of Robbie Ray and Taijuan Walker, and they deliver as expected, giving the Dodgers an early 2-0 lead in the series.
Greinke pitches well enough to win in Game 3, but Rich Hill matches him pitch for pitch, and the Dodgers get to Fernando Rodney late to finish off a relatively painless sweep.
     
(3) Chicago Cubs over (2) Washington Nationals
It's the Daniel Murphy vs. Cubs rematch we've all been waiting for.
In all seriousness, if both teams have their starting rotations at full strength for this series, it'll be as evenly matched as it gets on the mound.
Max Scherzer vs. Jon Lester in Game 1, Stephen Strasburg vs. Jake Arrieta in Game 2, Gio Gonzalez vs. Jose Quintana in Game 3 and Tanner Roark vs. Kyle Hendricks in Game 4.
Scherzer bests Lester in the opener, both teams suffer bullpen meltdowns in the middle of the series, and the Cubs pound Roark in Game 4 to force a win-or-go-home rematch of the Game 1 starters.
This time around, Lester shows why he's one of the best postseason pitchers of his era. He puts the team on his back, and the Cubs move on to the NLCS.

ALCS: (1) Houston Astros over (3) Boston Red Sox
With the Astros wrapping up their division series victory in four games and the Red Sox forced to burn Chris Sale in Game 5, the Astros open this series with an edge.
Dallas Keuchel keeps things rolling with another terrific start in Game 1, and Lance McCullers introduces himself to the national audience with an equally impressive turn in Game 2.
However, the Red Sox battle back with consecutive wins at Fenway Park, with Sale dominant once more in his Game 3 start. Mookie Betts carves his place in Boston postseason lore with a walk-off home run in Game 4 off closer Ken Giles to even the series.
But a Carlos Beltran three-run homer in the seventh inning proves to be the difference in Game 5, and the Astros close things out back at Minute Maid Park in Game 6 to win their first AL pennant.
Beltran takes home ALCS MVP honors with a .415 average and three homers in the series.
      
NLCS: (1) Los Angeles Dodgers over (3) Chicago Cubs
The Cubs bested the Dodgers in six games in the NLCS a year ago, but this clearly is not the same Dodgers team.
After sweeping the Diamondbacks in the division series, the Dodgers are able to set up their starting rotation. That means Clayton Kershaw for Games 1, 4 and 7, if necessary.
Kershaw had one great start (G2: 7.0 IP, 2 H, 0 ER) and one rocky start (G6: 5.0 IP, 7 H, 4 ER) in last year's matchup, and he comes out firing in Game 1 with a four-hit shutout.
The Cubs answer back in Game 2 as Jake Arrieta outduels Yu Darvish in a preview of the free-agent market's top upcoming arms, and the series momentum swings as the Cubs chase Rich Hill early in Game 3 with a blowout win.
The Dodgers don't let things slip away this time, though.
They take the next two at Wrigley Field behind an offensive explosion led by young stars Cody Bellinger and Corey Seager, and Darvish pitches the game of his life in Game 6 back at Dodger Stadium to clinch the pennant.
NLCS MVP goes to Kershaw, but he shares it with Darvish in a moment reminiscent of the Randy Johnson/Curt Schilling World Series in Arizona, and the recruitment to re-sign him is now in full swing.

(1) Los Angeles Dodgers over (1) Houston Astros
It's admittedly rare that the league's two best teams actually meet in the World Series, which is a testament to what a crapshoot the MLB postseason can be.
However, these two clubs have been head and shoulders above everyone else for more or less the entire season, so it still feels like the right prediction to make.
Clayton Kershaw and Dallas Keuchel both get knocked around in a Game 1 as the grind of the postseason starts to catch up with them, but the Astros come out on top in a wild 11-8 win.
The teams split the next two games as Lance McCullers continues his breakout October with a terrific Game 2 start and Yu Darvish continues adding zeroes to his offseason asking price with a strong outing of his own in Game 3.
Game 4 turns into a bullpen game for the Dodgers, but Tony Cingrani and Tony Watson combine for three scoreless innings to bridge the gap to Pedro Baez and Kenley Jansen, and the offense battles back for the win.
Things get back to normal for the two aces in a Game 5 pitcher's duel, and a Chris Taylor solo home run stands up in a 1-0 victory for the Dodgers.
Rich Hill takes the ball in Game 6, and the Dodgers offense finally figures out McCullers. He's chased after just four innings with the Astros trailing 5-1.
A three-run homer from Carlos Correa in the sixth trims that deficit and chases Hill, but the Dodgers bullpen steps up once again, and Jansen gets the final seven outs to secure the title.
Jansen takes home World Series MVP honors with 5.1 scoreless innings and three saves in the series.
So there you have it, Dodgers over Astros in six games.
        
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.

"Trade" has been the magic word in baseball of late thanks to the just-passed deadline for teams to make unrestricted deals. For the remainder of the 2017 season, any trades must involve revocable waivers, which can serve as roadblocks to possible transactions.
It might be better just to wait until the offseason, when the standings are wiped out and everyone starts out on even ground—and when players' trade values go back up significantly, thus creating an environment conducive to wheeling and dealing.
Last winter, the Boston Red Sox picked up starter Chris Sale from the Chicago White Sox, and the Chicago Cubs acquired closer Wade Davis from the Kansas City Royals. In Davis' case, it was a way for the Royals to get added value for a player who is set to be a free agent after this season, while with Sale, the White Sox were willing to part with an ace just as his salary was about to rise and managed to pick up some quality prospects—including infielder Yoan Moncada—in the process.
Expect some similarly structured trades this offseason, with established players serving as the centerpieces. But which ones?
We've come up with 10 of the most likely candidates, each of whom has had his name bandied about in trade rumors at some point in the past year. They were chosen based on the status of their contracts and their respective teams' future plans and ranked based on overall talent and impact on the game.

Age: 28
Contract status: Signed through 2019 (team options in 2020-21)
      
After recording an MLB-worst 19 losses last year, Chris Archer has looked much more like the rising star who prompted the Tampa Bay Rays to ink him to a six-year extension in 2014. That deal, which was for $25.5 million and included $20 million in options for another two seasons, came after he was third in American League Rookie of the Year voting as a 24-year-old.
It was the kind of deal that the cost-conscious Rays, who have one of the lowest payrolls in baseball, have been making in recent years instead of just unloading their best young players for more prospects. Third baseman Evan Longoria was the first of that group, getting a six-year contract in 2008. This past offseason, they notched outfielder Kevin Kiermaier to a six-year contract through 2022.
Archer's deal is great for Tampa's bottom line, as it would be for those of other teams, so it was no surprise his name came up so often in trade rumors last winter and this summer, as recorded by MLB Trade Rumors. The Rays didn't bite, though. But as Archer moves closer to making the bigger money, the more inclined the team may be to get something good for him on the trade market.

Age: 29
Contract status: Arbitration-eligible in 2018
       
By acquiring Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson from the Chicago White Sox before the non-waiver trade deadline, the New York Yankees added to what was already a strong bullpen. That move also increased the chance they'll try to use one of their many strong relievers as trade bait in the offseason, and Dellin Betances is the most likely to be moved.
This possibility existed long before that trade, though. Last offseason, he and the Yankees got into a war of words over how to assess his value—as a closer or setup man—during the arbitration process, with the team winning the case at $3 million instead of the $5 million Betances wanted.
"When Betances was upset over the Yankees' handling of the situation, speculation of an eventual trade began," NJ.com's Joe Giglio wrote in July. That was in response to Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal's suggestion Betances could have been used in a deadline deal to land a starting pitcher, though the Yankees were able to get one (Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics) without having to give up any big league players.
None of this uncertainty has affected Betances' on-field performance, though, as his 16.2 strikeouts per nine innings entering Thursday is the best of any full season in his career. That includes pitching an immaculate inning on Wednesday, when he struck out the side against the Detroit Tigers on just nine pitches.

Age: 26
Contract status: Arbitration-eligible in 2018
       
Realizing that another push for the postseason wasn't looking good, the Toronto Blue Jays became sellers at the trade deadline and unloaded a pair of pitchers in starter Francisco Liriano and reliever Joe Smith. Other teams inquired about Marcus Stroman, but the Blue Jays were requiring an active big league player in exchange, per sportswriter Peter Gammons' website.
Contenders generally try to avoid giving up such players at the deadline. But when winter comes around, it's a completely different game, so expect Stroman's name to come back up again—and for good reason.
For one, he's on pace to have his best season yet, with 10 wins and a 3.19 ERA. The upcoming years figure to be even better. Second, he's controllable through 2020, and though he stands to get a nice raise from his $3.4 million salary through arbitration, any increase would be worth it to have his services guaranteed for three more years.
And if Toronto decides it's time to blow the team up and start over, something ESPN.com's Buster Olney suggested just before the All-Star break was quite possible (h/t TSN's David William Naylor), it would be a lot easier to manage that rebuild by trading away players who could bring the biggest returns. Stroman fits that bill much more than the Jays' older (and more expensive) assets like Russell Martin or Troy Tulowitzki.

Age: 31
Contract status: Signed through 2021 (team option for 2022)
     
The six-year, $130 million deal San Francisco signed Johnny Cueto to before the 2016 season was a clear sign the franchise wanted to stay near the top of baseball's hierarchy for the foreseeable future. After all, thanks to their "even-year magic," they were in line to win the World Series again after doing so in 2010, 2012 and 2014.
Cueto lived up to his end of the deal that year, going 18-5 with a 2.79 ERA and throwing eight innings of one-run ball in the National League Division Series against the Chicago Cubs. But the Giants were knocked out in that round. And then the 2017 season happened, with the Giants suddenly going from perennial contender to major pretender, holding the worst record in baseball.
The roster is looking quite ancient and in need of a major overhaul, and one way to help with that rebuild is to unload still-valuable assets. Cueto falls into that category, assuming the forearm injury he suffered during a minor league rehab start—he was on the DL with blister issues—recently doesn't lead to bigger problems.
Cueto is owed $21.8 million for each of the next four seasons, followed by a $22 million team option for 2022, though he can opt out this winter. Getting hurt, along with his subpar 2017 performance prior to injury, improves the likelihood he'll stick with the contract and thus give the Giants more incentive to deal him as part of a rebuild.

Age: 30
Contract status: Team option for 2018
       
Andrew McCutchen's six-year, $51.5 million deal was a steal for the Pittsburgh Pirates back in 2012, and it became even more valuable when he hit .327 with 31 home runs and 96 RBI while leading the National League in hits that season. The numbers remained consistent for a few years before he fell off in 2016, hitting a career-low .256, though he's bounced back this season with a strong June and July.
The Pirates held off on trading McCutchen at the deadline despite going into a tailspin that left them far back in the wild-card race, which makes it look pretty likely they'll pick up the $14.5 million option they have on him for 2018. If they weren't going to retain him, they'd have found a way to send him off.
Taking on that extension will rekindle the speculation he could be dealt, just after the season instead of during. The Pirates seem resigned to losing him at some point, based on what general manager Neal Huntington told ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick in July:
"We anticipate Andrew continuing to be a Pirate until something changes—whether it's through free agency or someone coming in [with an offer] that we believe can help this organization over the big picture. That's the hard reality. We'll listen on anybody. We have to. It doesn't mean we're looking to move him or actively engage. There's active and passive engagement, and we'll always be open for passive engagement if somebody wants to come to us."

Age: 34
Contract status: Signed through 2019, vesting option for 2020
      
Justin Verlander is a career Tiger, drafted second overall in 2004 and reaching the majors a little more than a year later. Since 2006, he's been the model of consistency, making 30 or more starts in every season other than 2015, and his 179 victories are fourth among active pitchers—as are his 2,323 strikeouts.
But Detroit is heading for a third consecutive season without a playoff appearance, and the moves the team made around the deadline could be a sign it's looking to trim payroll. Even by parting with catcher Alex Avila, outfielder J.D. Martinez and reliever Justin Wilson, the Tigers are still over the $200 million mark, per Spotrac, and they have several big salaries on the books for 2018 and beyond.
That includes Verlander, who is owed $28 million in each for the next two seasons, along with $22 million in 2020 if he's a top-five Cy Young finisher in 2019. He's one of three Tigers set to earn at least $24 million next term, along with starter Jordan Zimmermann and first baseman Miguel Cabrera, with Verlander the one who looks to have the most tread left on the tires.
Verlander has a full no-trade clause thanks to being a 10/5 guy, but if he gets the sense the Tigers are looking to rebuild, he could be inclined to approve a deal to get back into the playoff picture. They put him on waivers after Monday's non-waiver trade deadline, according to Crasnick, though the return in August wouldn't be nearly as good as it would be during the offseason.

Age: 28
Contract status: Signed through 2022 (with 2023 vesting option); can opt out after 2018 or 2019
      
Having arguably his best overall season, Elvis Andrus is someone the Texas Rangers hope to keep around for a long time. But despite signing him to an long-term extension in 2013 at what's looking like a really good price, it may not be up to the Rangers whether Andrus is on the team into the next decade.
So it goes when your standout shortstop is represented by super-agent Scott Boras, who managed to get Andrus' contract to include pretty sweet opt-out options midway through. Andrus is locked into his deal through 2018, when he'll make $15 million for the fourth straight season—the same amount he's due in 2019 and 2020 before his salary dips to $14 million—but after that it's up to him and his representative.
Andrus can opt out after 2018 or 2019, at which point he'd probably be in line for a much bigger deal in terms of average pay. And if that happens, the Rangers would be left in the cold, having received nothing for him in return for his departure.
Newy Scruggs in the Dallas Morning News noted just before the trade deadline that Andrus' value was "at an all-time high" but that the Rangers weren't likely to get what they wanted for him. That changes during the offseason, when more teams are in play than just those battling for the postseason. There's sure to be a team or two out there looking for an in-his-prime middle infielder that thinks it can convince him to retain his current deal, as foolish as that may sound.

Age: 31
Contract status: Signed through 2022
     
Some relationships just aren't destined to last. The marriage between David Price and the Boston Red Sox, consummated via a seven-year, $217 million deal in December 2015, is a prime example of one that has managed to sour not long after the honeymoon period has passed.
Following a strong 17-9 campaign in 2016, in which Price threw a league-leading 230 innings, the left-hander has started only 11 games because of elbow and forearm problems. He began the season on the disabled list, not making his debut until late May, and he was put back on the 10-day DL on July 28 with an elbow injury.
Injuries are only a small part of the problem, though. Price has engaged in spats with the media and Red Sox TV analyst Dennis Eckersley, someone he believes has been overly critical of Boston players despite not spending any time around them.
"He's the one guy I've seen in my career that doesn't ever show his face in the clubhouse," Price told ESPN.com's Scott Lauber.
Perhaps a change of scenery is needed for both sides. Price has an opt-out clause after 2018, when he could forgo the remaining four years ($127 million), which doesn't seem like a great idea unless he thinks he could get more money on the open market. But it might be worth it just to get out of Boston.
And knowing that's a possibility, the Red Sox could do worse than to see whether someone out there wants to take him off their hands.

Age: 25
Contract status: Arbitration-eligible in 2018
        
Unlike many other clubs, who have locked up their young superstars with multiyear deals before arbitration, the Baltimore Orioles have gone the year-by-year route with the likes of Manny Machado and closer Zach Britton. It's a strategy that could come back to bite them when those players become free agents, which is in the near future.
Machado is earning $11.5 million this season, a contract he agreed to in January to avoid arbitration. The Orioles still control his rights for 2018, and though he's having an off year—particularly compared to his monster seasons in 2015 and 2016—he stands to see another big pay bump in his final year before free agency.
In January, Eduardo Encina of the Baltimore Sun reported that the Orioles had yet to discuss any long-term extension options with Machado. Since then, there's been no further public discussion of his future with Baltimore other than sources such as Rosenthal indicating the team wasn't willing to trade him at the deadline.
The unwillingness to trade him in July may have been because his down year diminished his trade value, as ESPN.com's David Schoenfield speculated. When the offseason comes around, that becomes less of an issue.

Age: 27
Contract status: Signed through 2027 (with 2028 team option)
      
Jeffrey Loria is in the process of selling the Miami Marlins; his asking price is around $1.3 billion. Whoever ends up buying the team would be taking on a lot of debt and plenty of future contract obligations, a huge chunk of which belongs to Giancarlo Stanton.
Stanton, who signed a 13-year, $325 million deal before the 2015 season, has yet to hit the big money in that contract. He makes $14.5 million this season, and that goes up to $25 million in 2017, getting to as high as $32 million from 2023-25. However, an opt-out clause after the 2020 season means he's only assured to earn another $77 million.
Not having Stanton's contract on the books could go a long way toward streamlining the sale, as Rosenthal noted in his open letter to Loria, posted July 23 via Facebook: "Name one interested party—one!—that does not believe it would be in the best interests of the Marlins to clear as much as possible of the $295 million left on the final 10 years of Stanton’s contract from 2018 to '27."
Rosenthal's suggestion pertained to a deal at the trade deadline, but it also applies to this offseason, particularly if the sale continues to drag on.
        
Statistics are provided by Baseball Reference and MiLB.com, unless otherwise noted. Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.

It was the day before the 2015 draft began, the day before some team was going to give the most unlikely pre-med student at Illinois State University the chance to take another step toward his dream.
Plenty of kids have a backup plan in case medical school falls through. For Paul DeJong, medical school was the backup plan. Baseball was always the first choice, and it was baseball that had him driving 2 1/2 hours down Interstate 55 to Busch Stadium on that Sunday in early June.
He couldn't actually work out, because of a broken left thumb, but the St. Louis Cardinals asked him to come down to shake hands and talk.
Tom Lipari, the area scout who liked DeJong so much, was there. So was John Mozeliak, then the Cardinals general manager and now the club's president of baseball operations.
And Chris Correa.
"He seemed like he was pretty smart," DeJong said.
Smart or not, he was pretty important to a college kid hoping to get drafted. Correa was the Cardinals scouting director, the guy who would make the picks. And when the Cardinals used their fourth-round pick on DeJong two days later, it was Correa's call to take him in the only draft he would ever run.
"He's really a bright kid," Correa told Rob Rains of STL Sports Page that day.
He's a bright kid, and he's turned into quite a baseball player, too. Not even two years after the draft, DeJong was in the major leagues with the Cardinals this May. He just turned 24 on Wednesday, he's playing every day at shortstop, and he's batting third for a Cardinals team that still has hopes of making a run at a playoff spot in the National League—and he was just named National League Rookie of the Month for July.
He's the first Cardinals rookie to play short and bat third since Red Schoendienst in 1945. He hit more home runs in his first 53 major league games (14) than any Cardinal in history other than Albert Pujols. His 13 home runs since his most recent call-up June 15 are tied for the second most in the majors behind only Giancarlo Stanton.
He won't be going to medical school, at least not any time soon.
Oh, and Chris Correa, the scouting director who called DeJong's name in the draft?
He was fired a month later when an investigation showed he had hacked into the Houston Astros' computer system. He pled guilty to five criminal charges, was permanently banned from baseball and sentenced to 46 months in prison. According to the Federal Bureau of Prisons website, he's serving his time at FCI Cumberland in Cumberland, Maryland, with a release date of Dec. 31, 2018.
Correa was responsible for making DeJong a Cardinal, but it was Lipari who scouted DeJong at Illinois State and emphatically made DeJong's case in predraft meetings.

"I ended up speaking for quite some time," Lipari, a former college coach who was in his first year scouting, said. "Not only on the physical strengths of Paul, but the type of person he was. And of course, we had cross-checkers and analysts who thought highly of Paul as well. Total team effort."
DeJong remained on the board through the first three rounds of the draft, and at some point Correa had Lipari call and ask if DeJong would consider signing for fourth-round money. DeJong, a junior in eligibility but graduating senior academically, quickly said he would (he eventually got a $200,000 bonus).
It didn't matter that he was graduating with a 3.76 GPA, or that he had been as serious as any other pre-med about his academics.
"Paul was an incredibly hard-working student," said Dr. Christopher G. Hamaker, who had DeJong in a first-year chemistry class.
But medical school had always been a backup plan. Being a doctor sounded cool, but playing professional baseball was his first choice.
The question was whether he'd get a chance. Not only did DeJong go undrafted out of high school, but no college offered him an athletic scholarship. He considered going to Wisconsin, which didn't have a baseball team, but chose Illinois State after coaches showed interest in having him walk on.
"That's what it seems to come down to for me," DeJong said. "I've struggled to get opportunities. Once I finally get it, I take advantage. That's my whole life. I was never considered the elite player. I just quietly wait my turn, and then never look back."
After his third year at Illinois State, the Pittsburgh Pirates chose him in the 38th round of the draft. DeJong didn't sign, but he did decide professional baseball would be his next step. He kept up his challenging academic program—Biochem 2 was particularly tough, he said—but baseball became the priority.
Before he was hitting homers for the @Cardinals, Paul DeJong was tearing it up at Duffy Bass Field.

#BackTheBirds // @RedbirdBaseball https://t.co/BsUvgFsFjH
DeJong wasn't a shortstop then. He was a second baseman, third baseman and an occasional catcher. He was catching when a foul tip broke his thumb.
"A lot of teams probably freaked out," DeJong said.
Fortunately for him, and for them, the Cardinals didn't.
The road from fourth-round draft pick to starting shortstop batting third was a quick one, but it wasn't direct. DeJong played third base after he signed and for most of last season at Double-A Springfield. He didn't move to shortstop until last July, but the Cardinals thought enough of his offense and defense to send him to the Arizona Fall League to play the position.
He came to the big leagues in late May as a second baseman when Kolten Wong got hurt. He moved to shortstop in late June because he was hitting and Aledmys Diaz wasn't.
He waited his turn. At least so far, he hasn't looked back.
"I see an aggressiveness with the first step, and I like the way the ball is carrying across the infield, too," Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said. "I just like what he's doing, the way he's going about it defensively."
And, of course, he's hitting.
There could be some concerns because DeJong had 63 strikeouts and just eight walks in his first 54 major league games. Cardinal fans, who have seen some other youngsters get off to good starts before struggling, want to be sure the same won't happen with DeJong.

For now, the team says it's not concerned.
"If you hit the ball hard, good things will happen," Mozeliak said.
DeJong has hit the ball hard. Of Cardinals players with at least 100 plate appearances this season, MLB.com's Statcast says DeJong has the highest average exit velocity, at 97.9 mph.
Matheny knows DeJong's background, but he said his shortstop looks like a ballplayer and not like a science student who lost his way and ended up at the field. And DeJong can still talk chemistry, especially with his grandmother, who worked 30 years at Dow Chemical. He still keeps in touch with some of his professors at Illinois State.
Thoughts of medical school are behind him now.
"It would be tough," DeJong said. "The biggest challenge would be the MCATs. And the workload is way more than in college. There's no way you could do medical school and play baseball."
Besides, those reasons he wanted to be a doctor in the first place kind of apply to baseball, too.
"I liked math, but I didn't want to write, and I didn't want to read," he said. "I had an uncle who was a doctor. He was always fishing or hunting, and he made a lot of money. I thought, This is a good thing to go into."
He's into baseball now, the first player from that Correa draft to make the big leagues (though outfielder Harrison Bader has since followed). He's the only current major league shortstop out of that 2015 draft now that the Atlanta Braves have sent Dansby Swanson to the minor leagues and the Houston Astros have moved Alex Bregman to third base.
And maybe, just maybe, that chemistry background has played a part.
"I knew he would succeed in baseball because of his work ethic," Hamaker said. "I knew that if he put as much work into baseball as he did into his biochemistry studies he'd play in the majors."
And maybe there was another thing, too.
"He's used to experiments failing in the lab and having to adjust," said Burton Rocks, DeJong's agent. "His background scares some people off because they think chemistry and baseball don't go together. But they do, in a tangential way."
DeJong and baseball go together in a pretty obvious way. Lipari understood that, perhaps a little more than any of the other scouts who were watching.
He made his case. And the guy headed for prison made the right call.
           
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

So much for Sonny Gray the savior.
In his hotly anticipated debut with the New York Yankees, the 27-year-old right-hander flashed ace-like moments and finished with a perfectly respectable line: 6 IP, 4 H, 2 ER, 6 SO, 3 BB.
The Yanks, however, lost 5-1 to the Cleveland Indians on Thursday at Progressive Field and displayed the flaws that make them an imperfect postseason contender, with or without Gray.
They committed three errors, all in the first inning, an inauspicious welcome for their trade-deadline prize, acquired from the Oakland Athletics for a package that included outfielder Dustin Fowler, infielder Jorge Mateo and right-hander James Kaprielian, lauded prospects all.
More damningly, New York's lineup managed a scant one run on three hits with 11 strikeouts in Gray's first outing.
As George A. King III of the New York Post put it, "Nobody could have blamed Sonny Gray for checking to see if he was really wearing a Yankees' road uniform instead of the green, yellow and white outfit he left in Oakland."
Granted, it was against Indians stud Corey Kluber, who can make even the best hitters look hapless. But the Yankees were shut out Wednesday by the woeful Detroit Tigers and Jordan Zimmermann, who lowered his ERA to 5.35.
The division-rival Boston Red Sox, meanwhile, are rolling, having plated 27 runs in their last three games, all wins. 

The Yankees maintain the best run differential in the American League East at plus-112 (the Sox sit at plus-70). But the Bronx bunch is headed in an uncertain direction, despite laying claim to the Junior Circuit's top wild-card position.
To be fair, Gray isn't the only cavalryman general manager Brian Cashman acquired.
He also engineered a deal with the Chicago White Sox that brought in bullpen right-handers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle and slugging infielder Todd Frazier.
Gray was the big fish, though, the one reeled in on the final day of the non-waiver trade deadline. His mandate was clear: propel New York back to the October promised land.
As Cashman himself put it after the trade, per ESPN.com, "We're trying to go from good to great."
Gray seemed to embrace it in a piece penned for The Players' Tribune:
"The pennant race … that’s something I’m especially excited about. I’m not much for talking about myself—but if there’s one thing I could say as an introduction to Yankee fans, I think it would be this: I’m a competitor. I love to compete. And when I get on the mound, that’s what I’m going to do. I’m going to compete, and I’m going to come at guys. I’m going to challenge guys, straight-up—with my best stuff against their best stuff."
The problem is that, even with Gray, there are questions in the rotation, especially after Michael Pineda underwent Tommy John surgery.
Slugging rookie savant Aaron Judge is in the midst of an inevitable slump. Whatever air of invincibility surrounded the club early in the season is gone, replaced by a tenuous sense of, Welp, we'll see.

Gray was an All-Star and top-three AL Cy Young Award finisher in 2015. He's under club control through 2019, making him a fine addition for a squad seeking to win now and later.
As ESPN Stats & Info noted, he owned the second-lowest ERA (1.37) since June 25 behind only the Los Angeles Dodgers' Clayton Kershaw entering play Thursday. 
No single player can smooth over all of a franchise's issues, however, let alone one with only two dominant MLB seasons under his belt.
The Yankees need to click offensively. They need to start playing tighter defense. They need to jell as a unit, including the young players who've never been here before (cough, Judge).
If they can do that, the AL East is winnable, and October could be a lot of fun. If they can't, Gray won't tip the scales. 
            
All statistics current as of Thursday and courtesy of MLB.com and Baseball Reference.

Los Angeles Angels star center fielder Mike Trout cranked his 20th home run of the season in the third inning of Wednesday evening's game off of Philadelphia Phillies starter Jake Thompson.
Trout is no stranger to the long ball, owning 188 thus far in his career. Wednesday's home run also tied him with three other American League players for the most 20-homer seasons (six) prior to turning 26, per MLB Stat of the Day. Only Alex Rodriguez, Tony Conigliaro and Mickey Mantle can boast the same accomplishment.
Since taking a full-time role in 2012, Trout has never played fewer than 139 games in a season. That will be the case this season, however, as the 25-year-old New Jersey native missed more than a month and made his first career trip to the disabled list due to a torn ligament in his left thumb, per Angels PR.
Despite the extended layoff, Trout has returned in full force during the second half of the season. Since his return following the All-Star break, Trout has collected a hit in all but two of the games, including four home runs.
Trout has annually entered the MVP conversations due to his ability to impact the game in all facets, but a shortened 2017 campaign will hurt his chances. He's already taken home the award twice—including last year—and has finished second three times.
Unfortunately for Trout, the Angels have only made the playoffs once during his major league career. That came in 2014 when the Angels were swept by the Kansas City Royals in the AL Division Series.
With a 53-55 record, it would likely require a great second half for Trout and company to add another postseason run to the resume in 2017. However, the Angels have won four of their last five and will look to sweep the Phillies with a victory Thursday evening.

New York Yankees reliever Dellin Betances entered Wednesday's game against the Detroit Tigers during the eighth inning with the team trailing 2-0.
Betances proceeded to fire nine strikes en route to three strikeouts, becoming just the sixth player in franchise history to throw an immaculate inning, per ESPN Stats & Info. In the process, he struck out the likes of Jim Adduci, Justin Upton and Miguel Cabrera to accomplish the feat.
Only 31 pitchers in American League history have recorded an immaculate inning, with three of the instances coming this season, per Baseball Almanac. The other two occurrences this season came from the Cleveland Indians' Carlos Carrasco on July 7 and the Boston Red Sox's Craig Kimbrel on May 11. Only one pitcher—Lefty Grove—has done so twice in the AL, doing so in both August and September 1928.
Betances finished out the game for the Yankees, tossing two scoreless innings. Unfortunately, it turned out to be a futile effort, as the club failed to score a run in the contest and lost by the 2-0 score.
The 29-year-old reliever is now in his seventh season in the major leagues and is posting another consistent campaign for New York. Since taking a consistent role in the club's bullpen during the 2014 season, Betances hasn't posted an ERA above 3.04 over the course of a season.
Thanks to the loss and a Red Sox victory, the Yankees have dropped a game behind Boston in the AL East standings. The Bronx Bombers return to the diamond Thursday evening as they open up a four-game road set against the Cleveland Indians.

Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Michael Fulmer was placed on the 10-day disabled list Thursday due to an elbow injury.
Per the Tigers official Twitter account, Fulmer was diagnosed with right elbow ulnar neuritis and the DL move is retroactive to Aug. 1. 
Fulmer had one of his worst starts this season on July 31 when he allowed a season-high six earned runs (seven total) on seven hits and three walks in six innings against the New York Yankees. 
The reigning American League Rookie of the Year, Fulmer has become one of the top young pitchers in Major League Baseball since debuting in 2016. He leads all Tigers starting pitchers with a 3.59 ERA, 140.1 innings, 1.126 WHIP and 3.23 strikeout-to-walk ratio. 
Fulmer's injury is the latest setback for a Detroit team that's struggled in 2017.The Tigers enter play on Thursday with a 49-57 record, third worst in the American League. 

New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge and Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman Cody Bellinger became just the eighth pair of rookies in MLB history to each reach 30 homers following Bellinger's solo shot Wednesday, per MLB Stat of the Day.
Only 28 rookies in MLB history have tallied 30 or more home runs. The last to do so was Chicago White Sox first baseman Jose Abreu in 2014, and the last pair of rookies to record the total in the same season was Ryan Braun and Chris Young during 2007, per Baseball Reference.
Judge impressively reached the 30-homer plateau prior to the All-Star break, but his pace has expectedly slowed during the second half, notching just four over 67 at-bats in the second half. Bellinger started the season later and has played 16 fewer games, but he and Jay Bruce both smacked homers to become the fifth and sixth players to hit the milestone this season.
Both Judge and Bellinger hit his way into the Home Run Derby, which Judge eventually won over Minnesota Twins third baseman Miguel Sano. Each also earned an All-Star team nod as well, but neither recorded a hit in three at-bats. Judge started in right field for the American League and struck out once while Bellinger replaced Bryce Harper in right field and struck out once himself.
Bellinger and the Dodgers own the best record in MLB by a wide margin, possessing a 75-32 record following Wednesday's loss to the Atlanta Braves. The loss snapped a nine-game winning streak for the Dodgers. Their last loss came against the Braves as well.
Meanwhile, Judge and the Yankees have battled within the division throughout the season, owning a 57-49 record and sitting one game back of the Boston Red Sox entering Thursday's action.
Both clubs made big moves at the non-waiver trade deadline, headlined by ace starting pitchers. The Yankees acquired Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics, while the Dodgers swooped in just before the buzzer and snagged Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers.
Although the two rookies won't square off at any point during the regular season, the two clubs added plenty of talent at the deadline to make a postseason run. The two could play against each other for the first time in the World Series should the two clubs reach it.

Boston Red Sox ownership reportedly instructed president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski to avoid dealing any top prospects at this year's non-waiver trade deadline, according to Sean McAdam of Boston Sports Journal (h/t John Tomase of WEEI.com):
"Two teams that dealt with the Red Sox leading up to the deadline got the distinct impression Dombrowski was not in a position to include any of the Red Sox’ top prospects in any deals. And, indeed, another industry source confirmed Red Sox’ upper management and ownership made it clear to Dombrowski the organization’s premier prospects were not to be dealt."
Indeed, the team's top prospects weren't dealt at the deadline. Rafael Devers—MLB.com's No. 4 overall prospect in baseball—Jason Groome, Michael Chavis and Sam Travis all remain in Boston.
Instead, it was a relatively quiet trade deadline for the Sox, who acquired Eduardo Nunez and Addison Reed without dipping into the top tier of the farm system. While Nunez gives the team a ton of versatility in the infield and Reed bolsters the bullpen, the Red Sox didn't make the sort of splash that their divisional rivals, the New York Yankees, made.
The Bronx Bombers filled the cupboard in a big way, adding Sonny Gray, Todd Frazier, David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle and Jaime Garcia this month.
That prompted Dombrowski to refer to the Yankees as the "Golden State Warriors," mirroring the comments made by Yankees general manager Brian Cashman when the Red Sox traded for Chris Sale in December, per Scott Lauber of ESPN.com:
"Yeah, I think the Golden State Warriors have significantly made some moves. I expected it. I would've been surprised if they didn't. But I think Brian probably has made them the Golden State Warriors and we're the significant underdogs, when I'm listening to the MLB Network. I would anticipate, like he said earlier in the year that he didn't know how the Red Sox would lose a game, I think it'll be the same. I don't know how they'll lose a game right now. They made some good moves. They made their club significantly better."
The Red Sox are currently a game ahead of the Yankees in the AL East, and the rivalry is as strong as ever.
But given the major moves Boston has made in recent years—including the Sale deal that sent the top prospect in baseball, Yoan Moncada, to the Chicago White Sox—it would make sense that the Red Sox wouldn't want to deplete their farm system. The Red Sox blend veteran talent with young stars, and the ability to keep prospects coming through the system when players like Mookie Betts and Xander Bogaerts hit their prime is ideal.

Fact: With his 30th homer of the season on Wednesday night, Cody Bellinger became the second rookie in Los Angeles Dodgers history, behind Mike Piazza (35), to hit 30 or more home runs in a single season.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

The MLB postseason picture is coming into focus with two months to go in the regular season and the non-waiver trade deadline now passed.
Nine teams stand as clear-cut contenders with very real hopes of reaching the playoffs.
On the opposite end, there are 12 teams that can safely be lumped into the column of "non-contender."
The focus here is on those other nine teams that reside on the fringe of contention.
Are they legit contenders or nah?

Before we get started, here's a look at the teams that fell into the categories of obvious contenders and clear non-contenders based on their current postseason odds from FanGraphs:
      
Obvious Contenders (70 percent playoff probability or better)
       
Clear Non-Contenders (5 percent playoff probability or less)

Record: 53-54, fourth in AL East
Games Back: 5.5 GB in division, 2.5 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 7.4 percent
      
Deadline Recap
Despite significant interest in relievers Zach Britton and Brad Brach, the Baltimore Orioles opted against selling at the deadline and instead acquired a rental starter (Jeremy Hellickson) and a shortstop upgrade (Tim Beckham) for the stretch run.
      
Legit or Nah?
This team wasn't two mid-level pieces away from making a title run.
Adding Hellickson to a starting staff that ranks 29th in the majors with a 5.65 ERA is the classic "Band-Aid on a bullet wound" move, and Beckham is a 1.3 WAR player with a 97 OPS+.
They're riding a nice five-game winning streak right now, but they haven't posted a winning month overall since April and continue to struggle mightily away from Camden Yards with a 20-33 road record.
A run at a .500 record isn't out of the question, but it's going to take more than that to claim a wild card berth, even in the wide-open American League.
Verdict: Nah

Record: 55-51, second in AL Central
Games Back: 2.5 GB in division, +0.5 G in wild card
Postseason Probability: 43.3 percent
      
Deadline Recap
Most expected the Kansas City Royals to be one of baseball's busiest sellers leading up to the non-waiver deadline, but they kept the band together for one last playoff push. They didn't have the prospect talent to swing a major deal but did pick up a trio of arms from the Padres (Trevor Cahill, Brandon Maurer and Ryan Buchter) and reunited with outfielder Melky Cabrera.
       
Legit or Nah?
The Royals looked like sure-fire sellers in early June when they were tied for the second-worst record in the AL at 26-34.
Since that time, they've gone 29-17 with a plus-46 run differential, good for the second-best record in all of baseball during that span, trailing only the streaking Los Angeles Dodgers.
Not only is Kansas City very much in the hunt for a wild-card berth, it's also well within striking distance of the Cleveland Indians—a team it'll play 10 more times head-to-head—for a shot at the AL Central title.
Whether the Royals can make a significant postseason run with a rotation fronted by Danny Duffy, Jason Vargas and Ian Kennedy and a bullpen that's a shell of what it was during their recent October trips remains to be seen.
Anything can happen once you punch that ticket to the playoffs, though.
Verdict: Legit

Record: 53-55, third in AL West
Games Back: 16.5 GB in division, 3.0 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 10.5 percent
      
Deadline Recap
Without major trade chips to deal or significant prospects to make a splashy addition, it was a quiet deadline for the Los Angeles Angels. They flipped reliever David Hernandez and listened on closer Bud Norris, who could still be moved in August if they slip further back in the standings.
     
Legit or Nah?
For the good of the sport, Mike Trout needs to be a regular October participant.
The game's best player has a grand total of three postseason games under his belt here in his seventh MLB season, and there's a good chance he'll be watching the playoffs on TV once again this year.
The Angels don't have the arms or the offensive firepower beyond their superstar center fielder.
The rotation has been sans Garrett Richards, Tyler Skaggs, Nick Tropeano and Andrew Heaney for most of the season, and they're currently sharing the disabled list with Matt Shoemaker and Alex Meyer.
Guys like JC Ramirez and Parker Bridwell have stepped in admirably, but teams without a clear front-line starter on the staff don't often find themselves in the postseason.
Verdict: Nah

Record: 56-53, second in NL Central
Games Back: 2.5 GB in division, 5.5 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 7.0 percent
      
Deadline Recap
The Milwaukee Brewers resisted the urge to mortgage some of their prized prospect chips for a run at Sonny Gray, instead settling for adding Anthony Swarzak and Jeremy Jeffress to the relief corps.
        
Legit or Nah?
The Brewers have essentially been playing with house money this season. Few expected them to be ready to contend this soon in their rebuild, and no one would have guessed they'd be perched atop the NL Central standings at the All-Star break.
However, what was a 5.5-game lead in the standings has withered to a 2.5-game deficit as they've gone 6-12 with a minus-22 run differential in the second half.
With a strong possibility that both wild cards come out of the NL West, the Brewers are going to have to rein in the Chicago Cubs and win the division title if they're going to make the playoffs.
Right now, those are two teams headed in opposite directions.
Verdict: Nah

Record: 51-54, third in AL Central
Games Back: 6.0 GB in division, 3.5 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 5.1 percent
      
Deadline Recap
A 1-6 stretch of games before the deadline was enough to convince the Minnesota Twins to sell. They missed their chance to sell high on Ervin Santana, but they were able to flip All-Star closer Brandon Kintzler.
     
Legit or Nah?
Remember when the Twins were surprise contenders in 2015?
They hung around in the wild-card race and finished the season 83-79, but it was largely a mirage, as they were propped up by a 30-19 record over the first two months before sliding back to mediocrity the rest of the way.
It's been a similar story for this year's team.
They didn't jump out to quite the same hot start, going 26-23 over the first two months, but that was still good enough for a share of first place in the AL Central.
Since then, they've gone 25-31 and looked very much like also-rans.
They may only be 3.5 games back in the wild-card standings, but there are six teams ahead of them, and all six are playing better baseball right now.
Verdict: Nah

Record: 55-54, second in AL West
Games Back: 15.0 GB in division, 1.5 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 22.1 percent
      
Deadline Recap
The Seattle Mariners added David Phelps and Erasmo Ramirez to the pitching staff at the deadline. Ramirez stepped into the rotation spot that has been a revolving door since Hisashi Iwakuma hit the disabled list, while Phelps joins Nick Vincent in setting up closer Edwin Diaz.
     
Legit or Nah?
The Mariners haven't reached the postseason since 2001, and general manager Jerry Dipoto has been wheeling and dealing in his two years at the helm trying to break that drought.
They've gone 12-7 since the All-Star break with quality series wins against the Boston Red Sox and Houston Astros along the way, and a healthy James Paxton has given them the staff ace they were lacking since Felix Hernandez isn't pitching at his usual level.
The offense is averaging a solid 4.7 runs per game on the season, and the pitching staff has a 3.68 ERA in the second half—good for fourth in the AL.
It's debatable whether this team can make a serious playoff run without a clear standout starter behind Paxton. However, it at least has enough talent to grab a wild-card spot and end the drought.
Verdict: Legit

Record: 53-54, third in NL Central
Games Back: 4.5 GB in division, 7.5 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 21.0 percent
      
Deadline Recap
The St. Louis Cardinals had the most attractive rental starter available not named Yu Darvish, and selling high on Tommy Pham was an intriguing possibility as well. When the dust settled on the trade deadline, though, they wound up standing pat.
      
Legit or Nah?
Suffice it to say things have not gone according to plan for the Cardinals this season. Wednesday night's lineup was the perfect example.
Someone who hasn't watched the team play this season might think a lineup that features the likes of Tommy Pham, Paul DeJong, Luke Voit and Jose Martinez was a result of the offense's being decimated by injuries or that the Cardinals were resting a number of starters on a travel day.
Instead, it's the team's best lineup right now.
Credit the Cardinals for consistently infusing the big league roster with homegrown talent, but this group is a far cry from the club that won 100 games a couple of years ago.
Still, the pitching staff is capable of carrying this team for long stretches.
If Lance Lynn (6 GS, 3-1, 1.47 ERA) and Michael Wacha (5 GS, 4-1, 1.93 ERA) keep pitching like they did in July, the rest of the rotation pulls its weight and Trevor Rosenthal continues to be a lockdown option in the ninth inning, a late push is a strong possibility.
Verdict: Legit

Record: 56-53, third in AL East
Games Back: 3.5 GB in division, 0.5 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 35.8 percent
      
Deadline Recap
The Tampa Bay Rays didn't exactly go all-in at the trade deadline, but by their standards, it was a busy July. They added slugger Lucas Duda to the middle of the lineup while acquiring Dan Jennings, Sergio Romo and Steve Cishek to bolster the relief corps.
      
Legit or Nah?
The Rays have long been a team that goes as far as the starting rotation can carry it, and the staff has done a lot of the heavy lifting once again this season as they rank second in the AL with a 4.07 starters' ERA.
However, there's a lot more punch to this lineup than in years past.
Evan Longoria is no longer the only power threat as the trio of Corey Dickerson (.877 OPS, 21 HR), Steven Souza Jr. (.880 OPS, 22 HR) and Logan Morrison (.904 OPS, 28 HR) has helped the team rank fourth in the majors with 158 home runs.
A postseason rotation of Chris Archer, Alex Cobb, Jake Odorizzi and Jacob Faria has a chance to be formidable, and the offense is dangerous, leaving the bullpen as the biggest question mark.
Their deadline pickups amount to a useful lefty middle reliever and a pair of former standout closers that are lottery tickets at this point in their careers. Will that group be good enough when the intensity is ramped up?
We shall see, but it's wise not to underestimate the Rays.
Verdict: Legit

Record: 51-57, fifth in AL East
Games Back: 8.0 GB in division, 5.0 GB in wild card
Postseason Probability: 6.1 percent
      
Deadline Recap
The Toronto Blue Jays swung one of the better deals of the deadline when they turned struggling lefty Francisco Liriano into outfield prospect Teoscar Hernandez. They also flipped reliever Joe Smith to the Cleveland Indians for a pair of prospects.
      
Legit or Nah?
Following consecutive ALCS appearances, the Toronto Blue Jays rank as one of baseball's most disappointing teams this year.
The starting rotation that led the AL with a 3.64 ERA and tied for the MLB lead with 100 quality starts a year ago has stumbled to a 4.75 ERA. Offensive production has dipped from 4.7 to 4.2 runs per game even though a breakout season from Justin Smoak has gone a long way toward replacing the departed Edwin Encarnacion.
This team just isn't as good as the one that looked like a serious World Series contender the past two years.
The Blue Jays resisted the urge to sell big and held on to guys like Josh Donaldson and J.A. Happ, but that's not going to be enough. It might be time to start considering those types of moves once the offseason rolls around.
Verdict: Nah
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, while all postseason probability numbers come via FanGraphs.

Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported Thursday that the Toronto Blue Jays placed outfielder Jose Bautista on revocable trade waivers.
The Blue Jays can pull Bautista off waivers if he is claimed and potentially negotiate a trade, however he has a full no-trade clause in his contract.
The non-waiver trade deadline passed Monday, but teams can still make trades provided the players involved clear waivers.
Any trade completed after Aug. 31 will result in the players not being eligible to play in the postseason.
The 36-year-old Bautista has a mutual $18 million option for 2018 and a $20 million vested option for 2019 remaining on his contract, per Spotrac.
Although he is a six-time All-Star, the veteran slugger is in the midst of his worst season since 2009. He is hitting just .216 with 16 home runs and 45 RBI for the struggling Jays.
Bautista has hit 35 or more home runs in a season on four occasions, and he clubbed 40 of them in 2015.
His production has declined sharply since then, however, to the point that he has become a liability in Toronto's lineup this season.
With the Jays sitting eight games out of first place in the American League East, getting some type of return for Bautista could be attractive if a team bites and he is willing to waive his no-trade clause.

Making good deals during Major League Baseball's trade deadline season is no easy feat. Most of them either go bad or go nowhere.
There are some teams, however, who've done well over the years. Bleacher Report's MLB Metrics 101 is here to give them their due credit now that the July 31 non-waiver trade deadline has passed.
Hello, and welcome back. A couple of weeks ago, the topic was the most brutal trade deadline fails of the 2000s. Flip that topic on its head, and major fails for one team become major wins for another.
That is a nice segue this week's topic: Which teams have done really well in deadline deals?
All July trades from 2000 through 2014 (a nice 15-year sample size) qualify for consideration. For how they'll be sorted, read on for more.

Here are the questions that need answering: How often have teams won their July trades, and how much value did they get from their wins?
To begin, the same basic rules that applied to the deadline fails apply here:
If anyone's confused by that second point, consider Scott Rolen and the St. Louis Cardinals.
He stayed in St. Louis for five more seasons after the Philadelphia Phillies traded him there in July 2002, but that's only because he signed an extension. He was just a rental when the Cardinals traded for him. That's what counts for this particular look back in time.
As for what qualifies as a trade "win," here are the ground rules:
To see all the winners in a table, go here. To see how it all breaks down, go here.
Up ahead are the five teams that gained the most WAR from trade wins between 2000 and 2014. But first, a few honorable mentions.

San Francisco Giants
The San Francisco Giants haven't scored in many blockbusters, but their recent track record is loaded with value buys. Such as: Jason Schmidt, Randy Winn, Freddy Sanchez, Ramon Ramirez, Javier Lopez, Hunter Pence, Marco Scutaro and Jake Peavy.
The Giants didn't actually gain much WAR from the bunch, but it's no small consolation that the latter six did their part to deliver three World Series titles.
                     
Baltimore Orioles
What the Baltimore Orioles lack in quantity of trade wins, they make up for in quality. Landing Melvin Mora in a swap for Mike Bordick in July 2000 turned out to be a stroke of genius. Turning Koji Uehara into Chris Davis and Tommy Hunter in July 2011 was another. 
                      
Washington Nationals 
Maybe the Washington Nationals weren't expecting Tanner Roark to turn into one of the National League's best pitchers when they got him for Cristian Guzman in July 2010, but it's happened. Other players they've nabbed in July trades include Wilson Ramos, Tomo Ohka and Jon Rauch.
                       
Los Angeles Angels
The then-Anaheim Angels' July 2001 deal of Kimera Bartee for Chone Figgins is one of the biggest steals of the century. They've also scored as buyers, netting players like Dan Haren, Huston Street, Alberto Callaspo and an epic half-season from Mark Teixeira in 2008. 
                       
Detroit Tigers
Dave Dombrowski's reputation as a shrewd buyer was largely formed between 2002 and 2015 with the Detroit Tigers. His best buys include David Price, Doug Fister, Jose Iglesias, Anibal Sanchez, Omar Infante and Jeremy Bonderman.
And while it's not counted here, Dombrowski also did well when he sold Yoenis Cespedes to the New York Mets for Michael Fulmer in July 2015 before losing his job a few weeks later.

It seems weird, but it's true: The Tampa Bay Rays haven't been that active in MLB's hottest trade month.
However, six wins out of 15 July trades is a pretty good ratio. And two of those wins are huge.
The bigger of the two is a July 2006 trade in which the Rays (then the Devil Rays) sent rental slugger Aubrey Huff to the Houston Astros for a couple of minor leaguers.
One was Ben Zobrist. All he did was blossom into an All-Star utility man and a poster boy for advanced metrics, racking up more WAR between 2009 and 2014 than all but Robinson Cano and Miguel Cabrera. He's one of the great trade steals in history, much less the 2000s.
Tampa Bay netted a smaller yet still significant steal two years earlier in a July 2004 deal with the New York Mets. The deal was Victor Zambrano for Scott Kazmir, who was then one of baseball's top prospects.
Kazmir also blossomed. Specifically, between 2006 and 2008, when he averaged a 3.41 ERA and made two All-Star teams.
Other players acquired by the Rays in July include Grant Balfour, Paul Wilson and Brent Abernathy. Not great adds but solid ones.
And while their end of the July 2014 three-team deal centered around Price looks light now, keep an eye on one party we haven't yet heard from: Willy Adames.
He checks in as the No. 18 prospect in baseball for MLB.com, which remarks that he has "all the ingredients to develop into an All-Star-caliber shortstop."

It's only recently that the Pittsburgh Pirates have developed into a contender. Before that, they spent the bulk of the 2000s feeding their talent to contending teams.
However, that's not such a bad life if you play your cards right. 
One of the Pirates' bright spots in the mid-2000s was their double-play combination of Jack Wilson and Freddy Sanchez. They acquired both July trades: Wilson from the St. Louis Cardinals in July 2000 for Jason Christiansen and Sanchez from the Boston Red Sox in July 2003 for Jeff Suppan.
Between 2004 and 2008, the Wilson-Sanchez duo combined for 26.4 WAR and three All-Star appearances. Sanchez even won a batting title when he hit .344 in 2006.
The Pirates later got Josh Harrison from the Chicago Cubs in a July 2009 deal centered around Tom Gorzelanny. He's since become a two-time All-Star who serves the Pirates as a utility player/energy source.
"What he's done since the day he became a member of the Pirates is hit, show up with energy, show up with enthusiasm, show up with positivity, show up with grit, show up ready to win," Pirates general manager Neal Huntington said of Harrison after extending him in 2015, per ESPN.com.
Elsewhere, Jeff Karstens and Ross Ohlendorf helped the Pirates get the better end of a July 2008 blockbuster with the New York Yankees. Other trade victories include Shawn Chacon (2006), James McDonald (2010) and Travis Snider (2012).

The Chicago Cubs have been both buyers and sellers in the 2000s and have produced success stories in both departments.
Included within is one of the great buys in recent memory: A July 2003 trade in which the Cubs sent spare parts to the Pirates for Kenny Lofton and Aramis Ramirez. Lofton was a solid rental, while Ramirez shook off growing pains to turn into a star third baseman.
Other buys the Cubs made in the early 2000s that deserve mentioning are a July 2000 deal for Rondell White, a July 2001 deal for Fred McGriff and even the July 2004 four-team deal centered on Nomar Garciaparra.
However, the Cubs are featured here mainly because of their more recent wheeling and dealing.
Although many things have turned the modern Cubs into a powerhouse, they couldn't have done it without July trades. During the trading seasons of 2012, 2013 and 2014, they netted Jake Arrieta, Kyle Hendricks, Addison Russell, Pedro Strop and Carl Edwards Jr.
Or, if you prefer: a Cy Young winner, an ERA champion, an All-Star shortstop and two of the team's best relievers.
Once again straying into territory not covered here, the Cubs also deserve credit for their moves last July.
It's too soon to make a long-term judgment on the prices they paid to get Aroldis Chapman and Mike Montgomery, to be sure. But the former helped get them to the 2016 World Series, and the latter was the guy who sealed the deal.

That's a lot of July trades and not that many July trade wins, but don't let that fool you. When the Texas Rangers have scored, they've really scored.
Nothing stands out like the July 2007 deal in which the Rangers flipped Mark Teixeira and Ron Mahay to the Atlanta Braves. The Braves' hope was the trade would lead to postseason greatness. Instead, that eventually went to the Rangers.
This is the deal that netted Elvis Andrus, Neftali Feliz, Matt Harrison and Jarrod Saltalamacchia for Texas. All but Saltalamacchia turned into key parts of its back-to-back World Series runs in 2010 and 2011
David Murphy, who came over from the Boston Red Sox in a July 2007 deal for Eric Gagne, was another key part on those teams. Ditto Nelson Cruz, a throw-in part of a July 2006 deal with the Milwaukee Brewers for Carlos Lee.
Michael Young, arguably the backbone of those great Rangers teams, is yet another player acquired in a July trade. He came over in a July 2000 deal that sent Esteban Loaiza to the Toronto Blue Jays.
"This long-lamented trade could serve as a precautionary lesson in the dangers of deadline deals," Brendan Kennedy of TheStar.com wrote in 2015.
Think that's the end? Not quite.
While they were indeed much smaller wins, Texas' deal for Frank Francisco in July 2003 and for Mike Adams in July 2011 aren't small enough to go unmentioned.

Maybe it's luck. Maybe it's fate. Maybe it's just good trading.
Whatever it is, recent history says other teams should be wary about dealing with the Cleveland Indians.
Cleveland took three of 10 spots in the B/R MLB Metrics 101 countdown of the top robberies of the 2000s. Doing the deed was their July 2006 trade for Shin-Soo Choo, their July 2008 deal for Carlos Santana and their end of a July 2010 three-team deal with the Cardinals and San Diego Padres: Corey Kluber.
These deals alone would be enough to push the Tribe's trading track record into the spotlight. But there are enough hits elsewhere to deserve bullet-point treatment:
For the record, there are also some solid buys in Cleveland's recent history. Included within are Milton Bradley, David Segui and, in the end, even Ubaldo Jimenez.
And if the Cubs can get a shoutout for Chapman and Montgomery, the Indians can get a shoutout for Andrew Miller. If they didn't pay the price for him last July, they wouldn't have come within a win of a championship.
All told? Not bad. Not bad at all.
                                                 
Transaction records and stats courtesy of Baseball Reference.


As far as pundits and casual fans are concerned, the Washington Nationals lineup might as well be called Bryce Harper and the Other Dudes.
Harper has been a magnet for attention since he broke into the league with his brash, outsized personality and preternatural talent. Making five All-Star teams and winning a National League Rookie of the Year and MVP award before his 25th birthday hasn't dimmed his star.
There's another hitter in the Nats' order, however, who is thriving in Harper's shadow.
That would be Anthony Rendon, one of the top third basemen in the game and one of MLB's best bang-for-your-buck stars at any position.
Yeah, we could have aimed our focus on second baseman Daniel Murphy, who is hitting .329 with 17 home runs. Or we could have honed in on first baseman Ryan Zimmerman and his .309 average and 24 homers.
Washington is running away with the NL East for a reason.

Rendon, however, surpasses Murphy, Zimmerman and even Harper, according to FanGraphs' WAR calculation.
Zimmerman sits at 1.9 WAR, Murphy is at 2.7 and Harper owns a mark of 4.9. Then there's Rendon and his 5.4, the third-highest total among position players in either league.
WAR isn't a perfect measure of value. As a shorthand, however, it does just fine. In this case, it highlights Rendon's unheralded prowess.
The sixth overall pick by the Nationals in 2011, Rendon made his big league debut in 2013. The following season, he won a Silver Slugger award and finished fifth in NL MVP balloting.
An injury-plagued 2015 and fine-but-unspectacular 2016 followed. It was worth asking if Rendon would ever live up to his potential. Four months into the 2017 campaign, consider that question answered.
The 27-year-old is slashing .314/.419/.578 with 21 home runs and is the best defensive third baseman in the game, according to FanGraphs.
Somehow, Rendon was left off the NL All-Star roster, a snub that sparked a protracted Twitter battle between the Nationals and Colorado Rockies, whose own third baseman, Nolan Arenado, started the Midsummer Classic.

In addition to Arenado, an unassailable stud on offense and defense, the Senior Circuit is blessed with some elite third basemen, including Kris Bryant of the Chicago Cubs and Justin Turner of the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Despite his prodigious output, Rendon is the forgotten man.
"I think he's highly underrated in this league, especially when everybody talks about the third basemen," Nats manager Dusty Baker said in April, per Jorge Castillo of the Washington Post.
"He's a pretty quiet guy," Zimmerman added. "Doesn't really do anything to draw attention to himself that much. So, when you do that, I don't want to say he flies under the radar, but you can do what he does and not get as much 'pub' as you should."
The best part, for Washington, is that Rendon is eminently affordable. He's making just $5.8 million this season, and while that will tick upward in his next year of arbitration eligibility, he's under club control through 2019.
For more context on Rendon's exploits, we turn to The Ringer's Michael Baumann:
"Since April 30, Rendon [has] walked 45 times and had 41 extra-base hits and just 32 strikeouts. '[Joey] Votto at a tougher defensive position' is a good way to describe that level of production. You might also try Jose Altuve with less speed and more walks, but after that there really isn't a great reference point for what Rendon is doing, and how he's doing it."

The next test for Rendon and the Nationals will come in October. They're a lock to win the NL East, but the franchise has never advanced past the division series.
It's not all on Rendon; Washington has a deep, balanced attack on the mound and in the batter's box.
If he keeps shining on the playoff stage, however, he may finally get the recognition he deserves. Heck, the Nats might even be known as Bryce Harper and the Other Dudes Featuring Anthony Rendon.
                 
All statistics current as of Wednesday and courtesy of MLB.com and FanGraphs.

The Atlanta Braves snapped the Los Angeles Dodgers' nine-game winning streak Wednesday night with a 5-3 win over the National League West leaders at SunTrust Park.
The loss also represented the end of the Dodgers' 53-game winning streak in contests in which they had a lead, according to the Associated Press (via ESPN.com). 
Atlanta was able to come back from a 3-2 deficit in the fifth inning thanks to a game-tying single from Freddie Freeman that set the stage for Tyler Flowers' two-run homer to center in the bottom of the eighth. 
Arodys Vizcaino then entered in the ninth and shut down the Dodgers' high-octane lineup to secure a nine-pitch save. 
The Dodgers won't lose sleep over the loss, though. 
Following Wednesday's outing, L.A. still leads the Arizona Diamondbacks by 14 games atop the NL West. Manager Dave Roberts' side is also 12 wins clear of the Washington Nationals for the best record in the National League. 
The Dodgers will return to the diamond Thursday seeking a series victory over the Braves before heading to Citi Field for a three-game weekend set with the New York Mets. 

You never get a second chance to make a first impression, and Yu Darvish is taking that cliche to heart following his trade to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Through his interpreter, the right-hander said Wednesday that he "[doesn't] want to be that guy" who alienates his teammates by isolating himself, per the Associated Press (via ESPN.com).
Darvish threw a bullpen session Wednesday prior to Los Angeles' matchup with the Atlanta Braves. The Orange County Register's Bill Plunkett showed him throwing in the outfield:
Yu Darvish in #Dodgers blue for first time. Warming up to throw a bullpen session. https://t.co/db5XS1kZ3S
The Dodgers made one of the biggest splashes at the non-waiver trade deadline, adding Darvish to a starting rotation that already included Kenta Maeda, Alex Wood, Rich Hill and arguably MLB's best starting pitcher, Clayton Kershaw.
Darvish also praised Kershaw and the organization, per the AP: "Of course I'm looking forward to being on the same team and I would like to learn all I can from [Kershaw]. It's an honor to be here playing for a great team which is having such a good season."
Through 22 starts, Darvish is 6-9 with a 4.01 ERA and a 3.99 FIP, per Baseball-Reference.com.
While spending extravagantly in pursuit of a World Series, the Dodgers have yet to advance past the National League Championship Series in any of their past four playoff trips. Acquiring Darvish illustrated that the franchise will do whatever it can to improve on that record.
Dodgers fans won't have to wait much longer to see Darvish take the mound for his new team. He's scheduled to start Friday's game against the New York Mets.

With the July 31 non-waiver trade deadline in the rearview mirror, Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander was placed on revocable waivers Wednesday and could be a trade candidate before the Aug. 31 deadline. 
ESPN's Jerry Crasnick reported the move.
Crasnick also noted this doesn't guarantee any deal will happen by the end of the month because Verlander has full no-trade rights as a 10-year MLB veteran with at least five years on the same team. 
However, as Crasnick pointed out, the Tigers will be able to engage every club in MLB in trade discussions if Verlander makes it through waivers. 
The Tigers also have the option to pull Verlander off waivers if a team puts in a claim on him, though general manager Al Avila may be inclined to see what the market has to offer.
Verlander's name was bandied about leading up to the July 31 non-waiver deadline. Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported the Chicago Cubs were discussing the former American League Cy Young winner before the deadline.
Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press reported on July 20 the Houston Astros had "minimal" talks regarding a Verlander trade. 
In addition to Verlander's no-trade rights, his contract is an impediment. He's owed $28 million in each of the next two seasons with a vesting option for $22 million in 2020, per Spotrac.
The 34-year-old Verlander has struggled in 22 starts this season with a 4.29 ERA, 1.44 WHIP and 126 strikeouts over 130 innings. 

Cleveland Indians pitcher Josh Tomlin is expected to miss about six weeks due to a left hamstring tendon strain, according to Jordan Bastian of MLB.com.
Tomlin left Sunday's start early and was placed on the 10-day disabled list Monday, although it now appears the issue will keep him off the field for an extended stretch.
The 32-year-old struggled earlier in the season and has just a 5.38 ERA and 7-9 record in 20 starts. While he has kept his walks down, opposing batters were getting easy hits against the right-hander.
However, he had performed well as of late, producing a 3-0 record and 2.59 ERA in his last four starts. He'd allowed zero hits through four innings before leaving Sunday's game against the Chicago White Sox.
While the injury comes at an inopportune time for him, Cleveland has plenty of depth in the rotation to overcome this loss. The squad had gone to a six-man rotation but will move on with a five-man unit featuring Corey Kluber, Mike Clevinger, Carlos Carrasco, Trevor Bauer and Danny Salazar.
As long as everyone else stays healthy, the Indians can continue to push for a division title whether Tomlin returns or not.

The Cleveland Indians bullpen is missing a significant piece with Andrew Miller going to the 10-day disabled list with a knee injury.
The Indians announced prior to Wednesday's game against the Boston Red Sox that Miller had been moved to the disabled list.
Per Paul Hoynes of the Cleveland.com, Miller was diagnosed with patella tendinitis in his right knee.
Miller has been one of the best and most valuable relievers in Major League Baseball since 2013. The former first-round pick posted a 1.93 ERA with 374 strikeouts in 229 innings over the previous four seasons.
The Indians acquired Miller at the non-waiver trade deadline last season, and he helped lead the franchise to the World Series for the first time since 1997, being named MVP of the ALCS along the way.
The left-hander was having another outstanding season in 2017 before going on the DL. He has a 1.67 ERA with 78 strikeouts and 26 hits allowed in 54 innings.
Cleveland does have a deep bullpen with Cody Allen in the closer's role and reliable setup men like Bryan Shaw, Dan Otero and Joe Smith, but few relievers in MLB are capable of dominating like Miller.
Indians manager Terry Francona has already navigated a wave of injuries this season to have the defending AL champions atop the American League Central. The hope will be they can continue playing at a high level to get Miller back in time for another playoff push.

Chicago Cubs ace Jon Lester failed to factor in the decision during Tuesday's 16-4 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks, lasting just four innings due to a heightened pitch count.
He allowed three runs over the four frames but also racked up nine strikeouts and pushing him to 2,000 for his career. Lester is just the 25th left-handed pitcher in MLB to surpass that milestone, per MLB Stat of the Day.
While Lester's outing didn't last long, he was in the game long enough to launch his first career home run. The 33-year-old southpaw had a notoriously bad start to his career as a batter, going hitless in his first 66 at-bats before knocking an infield single off of then-St. Louis Cardinals (now Cubs) starter John Lackey.
Lester's dominance on the mound has faded slightly in 2017, but he still possesses a respectable 3.93 ERA and generally eats up a large portion of the game. In fact, Tuesday's outing was just the third of the season in which he didn't go at least five innings (23 starts).
In addition to eating up innings, Lester has still racked up plenty of strikeouts this season. Over 134 frames, he has notched 139, giving him exactly 2,000 for his career. Fernando Valenzuela sits 24th on the all-time strikeouts list for left-handers with 2,074, a number Lester could reach yet this year.
The Cubs return to the field Wednesday evening for the second of a three-game set against the Diamondbacks. Lester will likely be in the dugout with his teammates but will attempt to add to his career total in his next scheduled start Sunday against the Washington Nationals.

Tampa Bay Rays third baseman Evan Longoria went 4-for-5 with a single, double, triple and home run during Tuesday's 6-4 victory over the Houston Astros. In doing so, he became just the second player in Rays history to hit for the cycle, per ESPN Stats & Info.
2017 has been a particularly strong year for the cycle, as six players have achieved the feat. That's currently tied for the third most since 1920.
The only other Rays player to complete the cycle was B.J. Upton, who slashed .255/.336/.422 in his eight years with the team.
Longoria is no stranger to setting records with the Rays in his now-decade-long tenure. In addition to tying the record for most cycles in a Rays uniform, Longoria holds the throne for most games with three homers (two) and walk-off bombs (five).
He's no stranger to major league hardware, either. In addition to being voted Rookie of the Year back in 2008, Longoria collected three consecutive All-Star nods, two consecutive Gold Gloves and a Silver Slugger across his first three seasons. The 31-year-old has also finished top 10 in Most Valuable Player voting on three occasions.
Though his production has trailed off somewhat with age, Longoria is still a great asset for the Rays. This season, he's slashing .276/.328/.469 with 17 homers and 65 RBI across 461 plate appearances.
Longoria and the Rays will face Dallas Keuchel and the Astros on Wednesday. The southpaw owns an impressive 9-0 record with a 1.94 ERA and 0.95 WHIP.

The Philadelphia Phillies announced on Wednesday that Pete Rose would not be attending the team's Alumni Weekend:
Pete Rose will not participate in Phillies Alumni Weekend events. Full statement attached. https://t.co/EWB9BD7cy0
The news comes in the wake of court documents revealing an allegation against Rose that claimed he committed statutory rape in the 1970s, per William Weinbaum of ESPN.com.
The unidentified woman said in a sworn statement she had sexual relations with Rose before turning 16. Per Weinbaum's report, "Rose acknowledged he had a sexual relationship with the woman in court documents made public Monday, but he said his information and belief was that it started when she was 16."
He said he began having sex with the woman in 1975, when he was 34. Rose was married and had two children at the time.
Rose has maintained the affair was confined to Ohio and that criminal charges cannot be brought against him as it is past the statute of limitations in that state. The woman said in her statement that the pair had sex in other states as well, however, which could involve varying consent laws.
The accusation is a part of John Dowd's defense after Rose filed a defamation case against the former MLB special counsel, who led the investigation into the former MLB player's baseball gambling while manager of the Cincinnati Reds. That stemmed from Dowd claiming "in a 2015 radio interview that Rose had underage girls delivered to him at spring training and committed statutory rape," per Weinbaum.
Rose, 76, played for the Phillies from 1979-83, helping lead the team to a 1980 World Series title.

Three-time American League MVP Alex Rodriguez said sitting out the entire 2014 MLB season due to a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs was "rock bottom."
On Wednesday, Marisa Guthrie of the Hollywood Reporter passed along comments from A-Rod, who admitted there were some dark moments during his year away from baseball (link contains profanity).
"There were nights in Miami when I was close to tapping out," he said.
Rodriguez is one of the best players of his generation. He stepped away from the game last August with a .295/.380/.550 career triple-slash line, 696 home runs and 329 stolen bases. He earned 14 All-Star selections and 10 Silver Slugger Awards to go along with his MVP trophies.
Yet the PED suspension created a dark cloud over an otherwise illustrious career. While it created doubt concerning the legitimacy of his elite numbers and led him to consider "tapping out," he told Guthrie the situation was a turning point in his life.
"It's probably too soon for me to say this, but maybe in 10 years I'll be able to say that the ' '14 sabbatical' was one of the best things that happened in my life," Rodriguez said, before adding: "I'll say this: That year off I just had to f—ing change and stop being a jerk."
Now A-Rod, who rose to prominence with the Seattle Mariners starting in 1994 before making a boatload of money with the Texas Rangers and New York Yankees, is working to repair his image through his impressive work as a Fox Sports broadcaster.
He's always been a student of the game—he once asked legendary Yankees teammate Derek Jeter why he didn't have the baseball package on television because he was accustomed to watching other games when he wasn't playing—and that shines through in his new role.
In addition, the longtime baseball star has remained in the spotlight working on ABC's Shark Tank and is shooting a show called Back in the Game for CNBC. He's also found his way into the tabloids as the boyfriend of singer and actress Jennifer Lopez.
Yet, it's unclear whether Rodriguez will be remembered in the future as one of baseball's most feared sluggers for over two decades or just another key face in the Steroid Era.
"I think that is to be determined," he told the Hollywood Reporter. "But I left it all on the field. My best two years happened at 19 and as a broken-down 40-year-old. I hadn't played in basically two years, two hip surgeries, two knee surgeries, scandal.
"And if you think about that arc, that tells you a hell of a story, right? The mistakes I've made are loud and clear. But one thing I am proud of is, I did not let those mistakes define who I am. I kept getting up."

Fact: Evan Longoria hit for the cycle in the Tampa Bay Rays' 6-4 win over the Houston Astros on Tuesday night, joining B.J. Upton (2009) as the only players in franchise history to hit for the cycle. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

The July 31 non-waiver trade deadline is past and August is here.
To shamelessly paraphrase basically every character on Game of Thrones, the stretch run is coming.
Yes, there are two months of baseball left before the postseason, but this is the point when true contenders gain separation and pretenders wilt by the wayside.
As we gird ourselves for August's action, let's issue another round of MLB report card grades for all 30 teams.
As ever, these are progress reports and not final marks. Hot streaks and cold spells can and will change the calculus.
Also: We're grading on a curve. Wins and losses matter, but it's much worse for a presumed contender to be under .500 than it is for a rebuilding franchise. 

Houston Astros (69-37)
The Houston Astros have the best record and largest run differential (plus-166) in the American League, and the biggest division lead in baseball at 15 games.
So why is there angst at Minute Maid Park?
The 'Stros didn't make a massive move at the deadline. While the Los Angeles Dodgers grabbed Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers, the Chicago Cubs got left-hander Jose Quintana from the Chicago White Sox and the New York Yankees snared Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics, Houston settled for ex-Toronto Blue Jay Francisco Liriano and his 5.88 ERA.
"I'm not going to lie," Astros left-hander Dallas Keuchel said, per MLB.com's Brian McTaggart. "Disappointment is a little bit of an understatement."
Houston has the talent for a deep run. But with right-hander Lance McCullers Jr. headed for the disabled list due to back trouble, per ESPN.com, and no cavalry coming, things are less peachy than they could be. 
Grade: A-
        
Seattle Mariners (55-53)
The Seattle Mariners were hosed early by injuries, but have lifted their heads over .500 and into the postseason picture.
They made mid-level additions ahead of the deadline, acquiring reliever Davis Phelps and starting pitchers Marco Gonzales and Erasmo Ramirez, but will mostly make their push with the roster that brung 'em.
That includes a bullpen that has been second only to the Yankees' over the past 30 days, according to FanGraphs' WAR calculation, and an offense that ranks ninth in baseball in runs scored.
The M's aren't catching the Astros, but a wild-card berth and the franchise's first playoff appearance since 2001 are within reach.
Grade: B
       
Los Angeles Angels (52-55)
Yeah, the Los Angeles Angels are hovering in the vicinity of .500. MVP Mike Trout is back after missing a month-plus with a thumb injury. Technically, they're not buried.
In reality, though, the Angels aren't a true contender, and they did little at the deadline to address either their anemic farm system or bloated big league payroll.
Until something changes, they're a franchise stuck in purgatory and wasting the prime years of this generation's best player.
Grade: C-
       
Texas Rangers (50-56)
After winning two straight division titles, the Rangers have plummeted to fourth place while their in-state rivals soar like a NASA rocket. That's a bitter pill for an organization that has never hoisted a Commissioner's Trophy. 
Credit Texas for seeing the writing on the wall and cashing in Darvish, an impending free agent, for a gaggle of prospects that included slugging second baseman Willie Calhoun.
At the same time, forgive Rangers fans for wallowing in disappointment.
Grade: C-
         
Oakland Athletics (47-60)
The Athletics have the second-worst record in the Junior Circuit and were obvious deadline sellers.
They shipped relievers Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson to the Washington Nationals for a decent-but-unspectacular haul. They failed to find takers for first baseman Yonder Alonso and second baseman Jed Lowrie, both of whom could hit free agency after the season. 
At least executive Billy Beane netted some intriguing pieces from the Yankees in the Gray trade, a rare headline-grabber in an otherwise meh season.
Grade: D+

Cleveland Indians (57-48)
The defending AL champs are the only team in the Central with a positive run differential (plus-95), yet they hold a slim two-game lead.
They traded for reliever and ex-employee Joe Smith, but didn't make any serious deadline upgrades.
"When you look at the guys we have returning from injury with [starting pitcher] Danny [Salazar], [second baseman] Jason [Kipnis] and [outfielder] Lonnie [Chisenhall], those guys definitely shaped our view of the deadline," president of baseball operations Chris Antonetti said, per Bud Shaw of Cleveland.com.
Fair enough. For the club with baseball's longest championship drought, however, a little more urgency would have played well.
Grade: B-
       
Kansas City Royals (55-50)
This is a confounding case.
On the one hand, it's reasonable to chastise the Kansas City Royals for not selling impending free agents such as outfielder Lorenzo Cain, third baseman Mike Moustakas, first baseman Eric Hosmer and left-hander Jason Vargas and retooling a farm system Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked No. 29 in the game.
Then again, the Royals have won seven of their last 10 and are in the thick of the American League wild-card hunt. 
What the heck? Worry about the future when it comes and make one more run with this popular core. Remember, they won a championship as recently as 2015.
Grade: B
     
Minnesota Twins (50-54)
The Minnesota Twins have lost eight of their last 10. After a Cinderella start, the carriage is morphing into a pumpkin.
Credit the Twinkies for bouncing back from a 103-loss campaign and proving their resurgence is on track.
Now, keep an eye on outfielder Byron Buxton, the ever-elusive future stud who returned from the disabled list Tuesday, per Fox Sports North.
Grade: B
      
Detroit Tigers (48-57)
The Detroit Tigers opted not to trade key pieces over the winter but cranked the motor on their sell-off prior to the deadline.
They shipped slugging outfielder J.D. Martinez to the Arizona Diamondbacks for what ESPN.com's Keith Law correctly called "a light return."
They also sent left-handed reliever Justin Wilson and veteran catcher Alex Avila to the Chicago Cubs for a better package highlighted by infielder Jeimer Candelario, now the Tigers' No. 3 prospect, per MLB.com.
Detroit could do more. Right-hander Justin Verlander can probably be dealt, since he'll almost surely clear waivers. The overdue purging of a creaky, overpriced veteran roster must continue.
For now, balance the disappointment of a losing season with a tantalizing trickle of MiLB talent.
Grade: C-
   
Chicago White Sox (41-63)
Don't grade the Chicago White Sox on their win-loss record. If anything, a losing record and last-place finish will net them a higher draft pick and a chance to further gild a glistening farm system.
After adding top prospects in the offseason, the Sox landed more up-and-coming studs ahead of the trade deadline, including outfielder Eloy Jimenez and right-hander Dylan Cease from the crosstown Cubs and outfielder Blake Rutherford from the New York Yankees.
All have the tools and makeup to become future All-Stars.
In an era when many clubs are eschewing full-blown rebuilds, the White Sox are going all-in on a bright future. They should be commended, 2017 record notwithstanding.
Grade: A

Boston Red Sox (59-49)
The Boston Red Sox are in first place in the AL East, right where they were supposed to be.
They're also just a half-game up on the Yankees and four up on the Tampa Bay Rays. A club that was expected to waltz into the playoffs after acquiring ace Chris Sale in the offseason isn't exactly waltzing.
Boston's lost six of its last 10. Left-hander David Price is again battling elbow issues in addition to squabbling with ex-pitcher and current commentator Dennis Eckersley. 
The Sox addressed their glaring need at third base by calling up top prospect Rafael Devers and trading for speedy Eduardo Nunez, who is now filling in for the injured Dustin Pedroia at second. They also girded the bullpen with right-hander Addison Reed. 
As first-place clubs go, though, Boston is far from secure.
Grade: B
     
New York Yankees (57-48)
After impressively revamping the farm system, general manager Brian Cashman dipped into his stash to acquire Gray, stabilizing a rotation that looked like a liability after Michael Pineda's Tommy John surgery.
Cashman also cashed in chips to strengthen the bullpen by netting relievers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle from the White Sox.
Questions loom in the back end of the starting five. Rookie sensation Aaron Judge is enduring an inevitable slump.
The Yanks hold the AL's top wild-card position, however, and are a half-game behind the rival Red Sox. For an alleged rebuild, this one's moving pretty fast.
Grade: B+
    
Tampa Bay Rays (55-53)
Who doesn't root for the Tampa Bay Rays?
A perennial afterthought in the AL East, the Rays are in contention and even added an impact player at the deadline.
That would be Lucas Duda, who is hitting .375 with a 1.500 OPS since arriving from the New York Mets and brings some notable Instagram intrigue.
Whether the Rays can hang with the Red Sox and Yankees remains to be seen, but they'll be a fun squad to follow from here to late September.  
Grade: B+
   
Baltimore Orioles (52-54)
Instead of selling valuable trade assets such as closer Zach Britton, the Baltimore Orioles opted to make moderate deadline additions, including grabbing right-hander Jeremy Hellickson from the Philadelphia Phillies.
"Nobody is running away with the American League East," said executive vice president of baseball operations Dan Duquette, per ESPN.com. "The teams are so evenly matched. If you make a move here or there and it jells, who knows? We still have some hope that we can make the playoffs."
The Orioles' fourth-place standing, sub-.500 record and minus-66 run differential tell a different tale.
Grade: D+
       
Toronto Blue Jays (50-57)
After making two straight playoff appearances, the Toronto Blue Jays are stuck in the division basement. 
They didn't gut the roster at the deadline, though they moved ancillary pieces such as Liriano and reliever Smith. Notably, they held on to third baseman and former AL MVP Josh Donaldson.
Fluttering past the Orioles is a distinct possibility, but the Jays' window appears to be closing. 
Grade: D+

Los Angeles Dodgers (75-31)
The Los Angeles Dodgers have the best record in baseball and a comfortable double-digit division lead over their wild-card rivals in the NL West.
They have the best team ERA in either league and rank among the top five in runs scored and OPS. They've snapped off nine straight wins.
Oh, and they added ace right-hander Yu Darvish in an 11th-hour deadline deal with the Texas Rangers that didn't cost them any of their top three prospects.
The only significant concern at this point is the health of Clayton Kershaw's back. Without the best pitcher on the planet at full strength, the Dodgers' chances of winning their first pennant and championship since 1988 trend downward.
Assuming Kershaw returns triumphant like he did last season, however, you're looking at the prohibitive World Series favorite.
Grade: A+
      
Colorado Rockies (61-46)
The Colorado Rockies addressed their wobbly bullpen by acquiring All-Star right-hander Pat Neshek from the Phillies. They acknowledged an uncertain catching situation by getting backstop Jonathan Lucroy from the Rangers.
Neither is a savior by himself, but both represent the Rockies' new trajectory. This is a team in full-on contention mode.
Why not? Catching the Dodgers is untenable, but a wild-card slot is within reach. And hosting the play-in game at Coors Field is a viable option if Colorado can fend off the division rival Arizona Diamondbacks.
Grade: A
   
Arizona Diamondbacks (60-46)
Speaking of those D-backs, they've sputtered a bit of late, losing six of their last 10. 
They still boast the division's second-best run differential at plus-112, however, and an offense fronted by under-the-radar MVP candidate Paul Goldschmidt.
Right-hander Zack Greinke, meanwhile, has regained his ace-like form and would be a formidable weapon in the one-and-done Wild Card Game, Mile High altitude or no.
Grade: A
      
San Diego Padres (48-58)
The San Diego Padres may regret not selling high on reliever Brad Hand. Then again, he's controlled through 2019.
In other news...well, they're the Padres, a rebuilding franchise that was supposed to be bad and has been, though they can hang their hat on the fact that another NL West club has been even worse.
Grade: C-
       
San Francisco Giants (41-67)
The San Francisco Giants entered the 2017 season as a popular, if not consensus, pick to compete in the NL West.
Pause for a moment and let that sink in.
If not for the exploits of All-Star catcher Buster Posey, the lone consistent performer on a team that has imploded in nearly every facet, the Giants might lose 120 games.
Instead, they'll probably only lose 100 or so. Pour a stiff drink, Giants fans, pop in those commemorative World Series Blu-rays and tune out till the 2018 amateur draft.
Grade: F

Chicago Cubs (57-48)
The defending champs are finally making their move.
After spending much of the season looking up at the Milwaukee Brewers, the Cubs have reclaimed first place by going 14-3 since the All-Star break.
The Quintana trade boosted a shaky rotation, and the swagger has apparently returned.
"It's back," first baseman Anthony Rizzo said, per Gordon Wittenmyer of the Chicago Sun-Times. "All those good vibes, all those good juices that we've had for the last couple years are back."
The Cubbies get dinged for their slow start relative to expectations, but they're ascending at the right time.
Grade: B-
     
Milwaukee Brewers (56-52)
Where the Cubs were expected to run away with the division, the Brewers were assumed to be a rebuilding club destined for a losing record.
The fact that they held first place for much of the first half and are still above .500 is an accomplishment worth lauding.
Management should likewise be commended for not cashing in any blue chips at the trade deadline. There's nothing wrong with blossoming ahead of schedule, but for small-market clubs like Milwaukee, patience is a virtue.
Grade: A-
      
St. Louis Cardinals (52-54)
The St. Louis Cardinals were stuck between buy mode and sell mode ahead of the trade deadline and wound up doing neither.
Instead, they'll apparently coast through the season with a roster that might be good enough for a fringe wild-card bid but isn't close to championship-caliber.
General manager Michael Girsch summed it up after the deadline slipped past, per Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch:
"It is frustrating. I think we were busy. I know we can't prove that to anyone, but we were busy. We were talking to everybody about everything. We discussed all sorts of options. It is very frustrating to come to the end of the month and not have something to show for the time and effort and to make the organization better."
Grade: D+
      
Pittsburgh Pirates (51-55)
The Pittsburgh Pirates shuffled the deck chairs at the deadline, sending reliever Tony Watson to the Dodgers and acquiring reliever Joaquin Benoit from the Phillies.
They're only 6.5 games off the division pace, but their minus-32 run differential indicates they aren't bound for October glory.
As former NL MVP Andrew McCutchen put it, per the Associated Press, the Pirates will "just work with what we got here." 
Grade: D
      
Cincinnati Reds (43-63)
For a team mired in last place with veteran pieces to sell, the Cincinnati Reds were remarkably quiet at the deadline.
We know first baseman and franchise icon Joey Votto isn't going anywhere. But what about the likes of shortstop Zack Cozart, starting pitcher Scott Feldman and reliever Drew Storen?
Sure, the Reds could swap all three if they clear waivers. Cincinnati's abysmal record combined with its lack of trade activity, however, make for a low grade.
Grade: D-

Washington Nationals (63-42)
The Washington Nationals are cruising toward a division title. They buttressed a suspect bullpen by adding Doolittle, Madson and Twins closer Brandon Kintzler.
They'd better hope ace Max Scherzer's neck issue—which caused him to exit Tuesday's game, per ESPN.com—isn't serious. 
Assuming it's not, Bryce Harper's gang is the most serious threat to the Dodgers in the NL.
Grade: A
      
Miami Marlins (50-55)
Slugger Giancarlo Stanton floated through the trade-rumor sea but stayed put. Now, the Miami Marlins have wriggled into second place in the NL East.
Still, at five games below .500 and with a minus-19 run differential, they're not about to become a factor. 
The biggest story in South Beach is the sale of the team by polarizing owner Jeffrey Loria and whether Stanton will remain a Marlin through the coming winter.
Grade: C-
      
New York Mets (48-56)
The Mets made some moves, sending Duda to Tampa Bay and reliever Addison Reed to the Red Sox for bankable prospects and acquiring controllable closer AJ Ramos from the Marlins.
A smattering of deadline activity doesn't mask the fact that New York was supposed to be a serious playoff contender and is instead buried in third place with zero October dreams.
If injured ace Noah Syndergaard returns healthy and recently called-up shortstop Amed Rosario blossoms into a star, perhaps there will be hope for next year.
At the moment, the mood is dour in Queens.
Grade: D+
      
Atlanta Braves (48-57)
The Atlanta Braves briefly teased winning ways but have dropped six straight and nine of their last 10. They failed to trade pieces such as veteran second baseman Brandon Phillips.
Top infield prospect Ozzie Albies got the call Tuesday, which gives the tomahawk-chopping masses something to follow.
Overall, though, the Braves' first season in their shiny new stadium has been underwhelming, even considering the modest expectations. 
Grade: C-
      
Philadelphia Phillies (39-65)
The Phillies were active at the deadline, trading Neshek, Hellickson, Benoit and infielder/outfielder Howie Kendrick.
None of the players the Phils acquired, however, cracked MLB.com's list of their top 20 prospects. In the end, a team that appeared to be on the climb last season will contend only for the worst record in the game.
Grade: D
         
All statistics and standings current as of Tuesday and courtesy of MLB.com and Baseball Reference unless otherwise noted.

By the time MLB's non-waiver trade deadline struck Monday, most contenders made the expected moves necessary to fuel their World Series dreams. Sellers funded those bids by unloading household names for future contributors.
The New York Yankees, Washington Nationals, Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Dodgers took significant action. Even the Kansas City Royals and Tampa Bay Rays fortified postseason contenders with mid-tier maneuvering.
Others turned weeks of rumors into silence, while some filled one hole but remained vulnerable to another weakness or two. 
Let's look at some of the deadline's missed connections and construct theoretical trades that would have helped both sides—and perhaps still can before the August 31 waiver deadline in a couple of cases.

A fringe contender, the Seattle Mariners addressed their pitching staff by acquiring David Phelps, Marco Gonzales and Erasmo Ramirez. General manager Jerry Dipoto left his above-average offense alone.
Although the Mariners needed pitching help, Ramirez and Gonzalez are unlikely to pitch Seattle into the postseason. Another power spark could have made a larger dent in the crowded wild-card picture.
First baseman Danny Valencia specializes in hitting left-handed pitchers, against whom he holds an .851 OPS; versus righties, meanwhile, he sports a mundane .683 OPS. That doesn't fly at a position that demands offensive excellence.
They missed out on Lucas Duda, who has crushed three home runs in five games since the Tampa Bay Rays acquired him for minor league reliever Drew Smith. Nobody bit on Yonder Alonso, who has accrued 18 of his career-high 22 long balls against righties.
Oakland's breakout star would have made the perfect platoon partner for Valencia. Based on Duda's return and the fact Alonso is still with the A's, it's reasonable to believe the Mariners could have snatched the 30-year-old rental for a fringe prospect.
Despite cooling off from a red-hot start, Alonso still boasts a .951 OPS versus righties. And unlike Gonzales—a possible back-end starter struggling to stick in the majors—he would not have cost a significant prospect such as Tyler O'Neill.

The Cleveland Indians didn't leave the deadline empty-handed. Having tallied 52 strikeouts in 37.2 innings with a 2.30 fielding independent pitching (FIP), per FanGraphs, Joe Smith is a welcome bullpen addition alongside late-inning studs Andrew Miller and Cody Allen.
Danny Salazar's strong return diminished their need for rotation help. Jason Kipnis is working his way back from a hamstring injury, and Austin Jackson has caught fire in Lonnie Chisenhall's absence. They can win a subpar American League Central despite the quiet trade activity.
But an extra hitter or two would have strengthened their World Series bid. 
The New York Mets failed to find any takers for their veterans, leaving Jay Bruce, Curtis Granderson, Asdrubal Cabrera and Neil Walker on the roster. Both teams could have helped each other with a mid-level exchange.
Jackson already has 12 hits—and probably the catch of the year—in eight second-half games, but Bruce has 28 home runs this season with a far steadier track record. Based on returns from other rental bats, he's a luxury they could have afforded easily.
Just in case Kipnis isn't 100 percent down the stretch, Cabrera could have rejoined Cleveland—where he played from 2007 to 2014—as an extra infielder off the bench. Although limited defensively, he's a league-average hitter who batted .345 with 10 homers after last year's trade deadline.
New York's veterans could clear waivers or Cleveland could claim them in August, so a late deal remains possible.

Star relievers Brad Hand and Zach Britton stand out as the top players not traded despite spending July on the hot stove. No contender's idleness surprised more than the Houston Astros', as they sit on baseball's biggest division lead and one of the game's premier farm systems.
Expected to make a major splash, they instead walked away with Francisco Liriano, who left the Toronto Blue Jays with a 5.88 ERA. It wasn't a calculated decision to stand pat, though. Per the Houston Chronicle's Jake Kaplan, Astros general manager Jeff Luhnow expressed displeasure over their uneventful deadline:
"I'd be lying if I didn't say I was disappointed in not getting some of the moves done that we were working on. We had some that were close to and almost over the finish line, and at times I would've put them at 90 percent-plus that we were going to get them done. But there are a lot of dynamics that happen with these deals, and for reasons I can't really talk about, they didn't happen."
With Will Harris placed on the disabled list right after returning from a shoulder issue, the Astros could have used another high-leverage reliever for the playoffs. Not overpaying for Britton amid health concerns is understandable. Hand, however, has 26 strikeouts over his last 20 scoreless innings.
An interested club told Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal the Padres were "overreaching" on their demands for the 27-year-old southpaw. And they should have. A stud reliever with a 1.96 ERA and two more seasons of team control should cost a bounty during the summer.
The Astros had the pieces to take the plunge. A package led by Forrest Whitley, Francis Martes or Franklin Perez would have demanded their attention. Perhaps they could have spared those premier starting-pitching prospects by offering Michael Feliz, a 24-year-old reliever with a career 4.90 ERA but 167 strikeouts in 117.2 innings.
Once an overpowering American League favorite, the Astros watched the Yankees close the gap via several trades. Adding Hand would have presented the perfect counter. 

As the Chicago Cubs restocked with Jose Quintana, Justin Wilson and Alex Avila, the Milwaukee Brewers settled for reacquiring Jeremy Jeffress, a reliever with a 5.31 ERA, 29 strikeouts and 19 walks in 40.2 innings. The division leaders at the break now trail the champs by 2.5 games, and they're likely to fall further behind.
Milwaukee needed another impact starting pitcher to stay in the hunt. Per USA Today's Bob Nightengale, the club refused to trade top prospect Lewis Brinson for Sonny Gray. According to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's Tom Haudricourt, the Brewers were told "Brinson or bust."
By Monday, Marco Estrada—who has a 7.86 ERA since the start of June—was the only low-cost rental worth pursuing. Perhaps they could have instead persuaded the Blue Jays to sell J.A. Happ despite his team control through 2018.
Yet Dan Straily represented the perfect compromise as a young, cost-controlled starter who shouldn't have cost Brinson.
Wielding a 3.79 ERA and 111 strikeouts in 123.1 innings, the 28-year-old would have represented a notable upgrade to a depleted rotation missing the injured Chase Anderson (oblique) and Matt Garza (leg). He wasn't going to be cheap, but he could have offered a long-term solution without sacrificing their prized center fielder.
It's possible Miami was asking too much for Straily, though. While they operated under no urgency to move their top hurler, they shed salary elsewhere by dealing Adeiny Hechavarria, David Phelps and A.J. Ramos. A larger rebuild will likely follow, and few of their players would draw a bigger haul than Straily.

The Toronto Blue Jays never showed signs of seriously considering a Josh Donaldson trade. They instead traded Liriano and Smith, pitchers on expiring contracts who won't hinder their 2018 plans.
Currently last in the American League East, they should at least acknowledge the possibility that their championship window is closed.
Barring major turnarounds, the Blue Jays will likely move their star third baseman next summer, if not this offseason. Perhaps he will boost his market value by repairing his .249/.369/.463 slash line back to MVP heights. If not, the Jays will only lose leverage as his contract dwindles.
Slump and underwhelming offensive market aside, a star of his caliber would have drawn intense interest before the deadline. One such suitor, as reported by MLB Network's Jon Morosi, would have been the St. Louis Cardinals.
Still sniffing around playoff contention, the Cardinals can also make a better case for looking ahead to 2018. Boasting a deep starting rotation and an ensemble of solid hitters, they're one big bat away from challenging the Cubs.
According to Rosenthal, the Cardinals joined the Gray sweepstakes by offering Stephen Piscotty and either Luke Weaver or Jack Flaherty. On the heels of a rebuild—partially because of their own Donaldson trade—the A's instead gambled on high-upside prospects from the Yankees (James Kaprielian, Jorge Mateo and Dustin Fowler).
Toronto, on the other hand, would benefit from receiving young major leaguers to avoid bottoming out without Donaldson. A year removed from recording an .800 OPS with 22 homers, Piscotty would be a great bounce-back candidate to procure. Weaver, who has 52 strikeouts in 44.1 career major league innings, will instead spend the summer in St. Louis' rotation.
Even if it's just a package led by one of those players, the Blue Jays should explore such a deal during the offseason.

Baseball's non-waiver trade deadline has come and gone, with big names such as Sonny Gray and Yu Darvish going from sub-.500 teams to contenders who hope they can help push them toward the postseason and beyond. They get the chance to be in a pennant race and possibly play for a World Series title, while others who didn't get traded are stuck playing out the string.
Or are they?
Trades can still happen this month, just with a few added hurdles. Instead of being able to deal players without any restrictions before August 31, teams must first put those players through waivers to allow all other teams to make a claim. If a team makes a claim, the trading club has the option to work out a deal, release the player or pull them back, while players who clear waivers can then be traded anywhere.
Last August there were 21 trades after the non-waiver deadline, and while most didn't involve big names, a few had an impact on the postseason. The most notable was outfielder Coco Crisp, whom Cleveland picked up from Oakland on August 31, and he ended up hitting .333 for the Indians in the World Series.
One such player who figured to be in play for a waiver trade was San Francisco pitcher Johnny Cueto, but a potential injury on Monday night may have scrapped that possibility. Cueto, who is on the disabled list with a blister issue, left his minor league rehab start with forearm tightness, according to CSN Bay Area's Alex Pavlovic.
Who are some of the other significant players who could still be dealt this month? We've got a few ideas.

With dependable relief pitchers often in such high demand, it was a bit surprising that Baltimore didn't pull the trigger on a deal for Zach Britton, their closer the last three-plus seasons. Maybe potential buyers want to see a little more from a player who has had two stints this year on the disabled list.
Britton was shelved both times because of a left forearm strain, but since returning on July 5, he has looked a lot like the player who recorded 120 saves from 2014-16, including an MLB-best 47 last season. For the year, he's 1-0 (picking up the win in Monday's 2-1 victory over Kansas City) with a 3.15 ERA and eight saves in 20 appearances.
At 52-54, the Orioles aren't out of it, trailing KC by just 3.5 games for the final American League wild-card spot. If they can stay close, then it wouldn't make sense in dealing Britton, who has converted 57 consecutive save chances with his last blown opportunity coming in September 2015, but if they fall further back, the chance to get at least some return for what Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal called a player who will "likely will earn $14 million in arbitration next season while closing again for a likely non-contender."
      
Potential suitors: Cleveland Indians, Houston Astros
The Los Angeles Dodgers seemed to be the most interested in adding Britton before the trade deadline, but they ended up making Texas starter Yu Darvish their priority and added two lesser-regarded lefty relievers in Cincinnati's Tony Cingrani and Pittsburgh's Tony Watson. That leaves a pair of AL clubs who had been pursuing a deal for Britton last month.
Rosenthal tweeted Monday that Houston was "serious" about getting Britton, who would possibly supplant Astros closer Ken Giles in that role. Cleveland, which on Monday was considered a "long shot" to pick up Britton, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale, would probably end up using him as another Andrew Miller-type who could come in at any point in the game while leaving Cody Allen in the closer's spot.

He's just 4-7 with a 5.19 ERA, but Marco Estrada is coming off one of his best starts of the season, allowing a run on four hits over seven innings on Monday. This came only hours after his name didn't get included among the last-second deadline trades as many had speculated it would.
Such a performance could work well for Toronto if it still wants to trade him or plan to keep him beyond this season. The 34-year-old right-hander will be a free agent after finishing up a two-year, $26 million contract that pays him $14.5 million this season.
"We're in the business of making this organization better, and if a deal doesn’t present itself to do so, then we're happy to keep Marco Estrada a Toronto Blue Jay,” general manager Ross Atkins said, per Shi Davidi of Sportsnet.
In that same article Estrada expressed his desire to remain with Toronto, where he's pitched since 2015, but if the team gets the sense he might be too expensive, then getting something for him this month must be considered.
        
Potential suitor: Kansas City Royals
Kansas City traded for a starter in July, getting Trevor Cahill from San Diego along with two relievers, but Cahill didn't foster confidence that he's the answer in his Royals debut. He allowed five runs in four innings Saturday in Boston.
The Royals and Blue Jays have reportedly had numerous talks about sending a starter south of the border, with Estrada being the most commonly mentioned name, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale and the New York Post's Joel Sherman. K.C. holds the second American League wild-card slot, but that lead is tenuous at best.

When Atlanta picked up Brandon Phillips from Cincinnati in February, taking on only a fraction of his $14 million salary, the move was described by Connor Byrne of MLB Trade Rumors as a stopgap measure before the Braves eventually promoted top prospect Ozzie Albies. And now that Albies is in the big leagues, Phillips' spot as a placeholder at second base is coming to an end.
Albies went 0-for-2 with a walk and a run scored in his debut Tuesday, while Phillips singled as a pinch hitter. Phillips is hitting .292 with eight home runs and 38 RBI this season, his power numbers on the way down, but his runs created per game (4.9) is his highest rate in six years.
An everyday player throughout his career, the 36-year-old doesn't have much experience coming off the bench, but he might be willing to take on such a role if it means getting a shot at just his fourth trip to the postseason (the last coming in 2013).
         
Potential suitors: Arizona Diamondbacks, Cleveland Indians
Arizona made two deadline moves on Monday, including the addition of shortstop Adam Rosales from Oakland. The Diamondbacks are in desperate need of middle infield help, with both Nick Ahmed and Chris Owings on the 60-day disabled list, the latter after breaking a finger on his right hand over the weekend.
Owings also started 15 games at second, where Brandon Drury has been the primary starter but has been struggling since the All-Star break. Phillips is the kind of veteran bat who, like the July trade for outfielder J.D. Martinez from Detroit, could further solidify the D-backs lineup.
In Cleveland's case, Jason Kipnis should be back soon from the DL (hamstring) but he's hitting a career-low .232. Jose Ramirez has bounced back and forth between second and third of late, but he's best served on the corner, so bringing back Phillips—he played with the Tribe from 2002 to '05 before hitting his stride with Cincinnati—might make a lot of sense.

One of the best sluggers in the game, Giancarlo Stanton has yet to appear in the postseason. And unless Miami suddenly becomes a juggernaut once under new ownership, he's not likely to be in the playoffs anytime soon since he's under contract with the Marlins through 2027.
But never say never, since being able to get $295 million worth of future obligations off the books might clear up a lot of issues with getting the team sold. And since outgoing owner Jeffrey Loria has become infamous for salary dumps in the past, why not one more big one for old times' sake?
Stanton, making $14.5 million this season, jumps up to $25 million next year and is owed at least $77 million before having the chance to opt out of his 13-year, $325 million deal after 2020. And it's not like he's anywhere close to the downside of his career, as the 27-year-old leads the National League with 33 home runs and he still has one of the best right-field arms in the game.
       
Potential suitors: Chicago Cubs, Los Angeles Dodgers
Since Miami isn't about to agree to any deal that has it paying any of Stanton's outstanding salary, the list of teams that could afford to take on his contract are few (and even fewer among legitimate World Series contenders, who are the only teams that would consider such a deal in August). And most of them have a pretty good right fielder already.
The New York Yankees have Aaron Judge, Boston has Mookie Betts and Washington has Bryce Harper, none of whom are going to become platoon players. That leaves the reigning world champions and the team with the best record in baseball, each of which could stand to upgrade that position and have more than enough revenue to cover Stanton's salary.
For the Cubs, it would mean relegating Jason Heyward into an eight-year, $184 million reserve after signing in December 2015. For the Dodgers, it would signal the end of the tumultuous Yasiel Puig era, even though his 19 home runs this season are tied for his career high.
Puig would make for a pretty darn good trade piece with the Marlins, since the 26-year-old Cuban would likely become an instant favorite of the sizable Cuban community in south Florida.

Social media has a lot of negatives, but it's also provided an outlet for players involved in the craziness of baseball's trade deadline to have some fun. Monday saw two starting pitchers who were regularly mentioned in trade rumors, Texas' Yu Darvish and Detroit's Justin Verlander, tweet out pictures of themselves in their team's clubhouses just minutes before the deadline.
Only Verlander was still there at the end of the night, as Darvish was dealt to the Los Angeles Dodgers at the last minute. And while he made it past the July 31 deadline without having to change uniforms, Verlander isn't out of the water.
The 34-year-old right-hander is 6-7 with a 4.29 this season, with his 8.7 strikeouts per nine innings down significantly from the 10.0 in 2016, when he finished second in the American League Cy Young voting. He's on an uptick, though, having lowered his ERA in each of his last five starts, and in his last outing, he held Houston scoreless over six frames.
A full no-trade clause only complicates a trade scenario that would also be difficult because Verlander is owed $56 million for 2018-19 (and has a $22 million vesting option for 2020 if he's a top-five Cy Young finisher in 2019). Detroit isn't apt to want to keep much of that salary unless it gets really good prospects in return, though it stands to reason the return on a trade would have been better before the deadline.
Verlander is a career Tiger, but if he gets the sense that franchise is headed for a prolonged lull—this will be three straight years missing the playoffs after making it from 2011-14—then he may end up asking the team to see if someone wants him for this October.
       
Potential suitor: Houston Astros
Charlie Wilmoth of MLB Trade Rumors listed a whopping 13 teams as potential landing spots for Verlander in a July 23 article, though only a few of those are realistic. And while the Chicago Cubs might be so hell-bent on keeping their World Series high going that they'd pull the trigger, the best option is Houston.
The Astros were very much in the market for a starting pitcher before the deadline and they got one, but while lefty Francisco Liriano was a nice pickup (albeit one that's more likely to serve as a bullpen addition) he doesn't have the same sizzle as Verlander. They wanted Sonny Gray or Yu Darvish but saw those starters end up with the New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers, respectively.
Verlander would become Houston's highest-paid player by a wide margin, as Carlos Beltran's $16 million salary is tops on the club. The Astros have been building toward this season as the one in which they go for it all, and while they've done most of that work with homegrown talent, the time might come for a hired gun to be brought in.
There's also the fact Houston's starting rotation is in flux, with Lance McCullers Jr. going on the disabled list on Monday with a back injury and Dallas Keuchel only a few days removed from being out nearly two months with a neck injury.
        
Statistics are provided by Baseball Reference and MiLB.com, unless otherwise noted. Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.

An attorney representing the Arizona Diamondbacks argued in court Tuesday that Major League Baseball could force the franchise to move from Chase Field due to concerns about the venue.
According to Rebekah L. Sanders of the Arizona Republic, Leo Beus said the following regarding the need for the county government to fund repairs after recent piping issues:
"Major League Baseball ... they're very, very concerned. If Major League Baseball decides they want to create issues for us, there might not be baseball at all in Arizona. ... We'd like to keep the franchise in place, we'd like to make peace with Major League Baseball, not that we're at war. We don't know where that's going to come out. They're very concerned."
Maricopa County, Arizona, attorney Cameron Artigue countered that the Diamondbacks are trying to leverage the county for funding when the bursting of a sanitation pipe and failure of an air conditioning system in June are repairs the organization is responsible for:
"This (lawsuit) has nothing to do with the water leaks and the merits of Chase Field. The Diamondbacks are the facility manager. When a pipe breaks, that is a Diamondbacks problem. And that is, in fact, what happened. They got out the mops and they mopped it up, and life goes on. It's a big facility and sometimes pipes break. So what?"
The sides are awaiting a decision regarding whether they will go to court to settle the issue or have their case heard by an arbiter.
Should the case go to arbitration, Beus said the Diamondbacks want everything available to the public.
The D-backs have played at Chase Field in Phoenix since their inception in 1998, when it was then known as Bank One Ballpark.
Despite their stadium issues, the Diamondbacks are 60-46 this season, and they have a firm grasp on the No. 2 wild card in the National League.

The Boston Red Sox (59-49) will go for a three-game sweep of the Cleveland Indians (57-48) as small home favorites on the Vegas lines for Wednesday's nationally televised series finale at Fenway Park. The Red Sox have won the first two games by a combined score of 18-12 and hope to continue their hot hitting against an Indians team looking to break a three-game losing streak.
Betting line: The Red Sox opened as -124 favorites (wager $124 to win $100); the total is at 10 runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark (line updates and matchup report).
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 5.6-5.0, Red Sox (MLB picks on every game)
         
Why the Indians can pay on the MLB lines
Cleveland had won nine a row prior to its skid, so there will be no panic in the visitors' dugout in Boston. Thursday's 12-10 loss was a wild affair that saw the Indians take an early 5-0 lead in the top of the second inning before giving five back in the bottom half of the frame. Then they led 10-9 going into the bottom of the ninth before surrendering a game-winning three-run home run to catcher Christian Vazquez.
Cleveland center fielder Austin Jackson had made an amazing catch to rob Hanley Ramirez of a home run in the fifth inning. Trevor Bauer (9-8, 5.25 ERA) will toe the rubber for the Tribe here, and he has won his last two starts, allowing four runs and 13 hits in a combined 13 innings.
                 
Why the Red Sox can pay on the MLB lines
You might think that Cleveland might have the edge in the starting pitching matchup, but Rick Porcello (4-14, 4.55 ERA) has been solid lately despite losing each of his last four starts. Porcello has given up more than three runs only once during that stretch, with the Red Sox getting blanked twice and totaling just four runs in his other two outings.
The Red Sox should be able to keep putting runs up on the board against Bauer, who is 3-5 in nine road starts with a 6.69 ERA. That's not good obviously, but it's good for Boston.
           
Smart betting pick
The Red Sox jumped back ahead of the New York Yankees for the lead in the American League East with Tuesday's victory, and they want to stay there. The pressure is on in Beantown, and Boston could use a confidence boost with a sweep of the AL Central leaders.
The Red Sox have won four of the past five home meetings with the Indians at Fenway, according to the OddsShark MLB Database, so back them as small chalk.
         
MLB betting trends
Cleveland is 9-3 in its last 12 games.
The total has gone over in four of Cleveland's last six games on the road.
The total has gone under in nine of Boston's last 12 games at home.
          
All MLB lines and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.

The most expensive pitcher in Major League Baseball history is injured, seemingly declining and at war with the media.
And it hasn't even been two years for David Price and the Boston Red Sox.
Everyone had reasons for optimism when the sides agreed to a record seven-year, $217 million deal in 2015. He was the 2012 American League Cy Young Award winner, and coming off his second ERA title. They were a team that badly needed pitching. A perfect union, indeed.
But perhaps that's why it should have been expected to turn bad.
The preamble was inauspicious yet innocent. Price disappointed on the mound in 2016, turning in a 3.99 ERA in 35 regular-season starts plus one dud in the postseason. But off the mound, he kept his cool.
Now in 2017, stuff has gotten real.
Price, who'll turn 32 on Aug. 26, has pitched to a solid 3.82 ERA in 11 starts. But a barking left elbow sidelined him for all of April and most of May, and now it has him back on the disabled list.
With Price out, there's no time like the present to dissect what's going on between him and the local media. Because, boy howdy, is it something.
Here's the need-to-know timeline:
This would make for a fascinating case study in a class titled "Wait, What the Hell Happened to This Guy?"

Price used to be one of the coolest dudes in baseball, oozing charisma on social media and in real life. He had some ugly moments, such as going off on "NERDS" following a bad start in the 2013 playoffs. But in general, nothing too bad.
Boston itself seems to be turning the crank of Price's heel turn, as this paragraph in Shaughnessy's column reveals:
Boston's sports talk radio/TV cowboys (Rick Pitino's "Fellowship of the Miserable") love hooting on Price. The SportsHub's Jim Murray does a Price imitation that's radio gold. Social and mainstream media have gleefully jumped in. Everybody loves Chris Sale and Mookie Betts and Andrew Benintendi, but nobody loves David Price.
No surprise, right? Boston has a history of harsh treatment of star athletes, not to mention a less-than-stellar track record with race relations—Britni De La Cretaz covered that well at DigBoston.com.
If Price, who's African-American, is feeling the barbs of these tendencies, the best thing he could do is address them head-on and speak truths that need to be heard. It would be a noble and potentially valuable crusade.
But instead of a victim with a gripe, he's cast himself as a bully who can't even pick good fights.
In the June 8 incident, Price picked a fight over a tweet by Drellich that actually seemed to support his no-personal-interviews policy.
In the June 30 incident, he picked a fight over a throwaway remark. According to Shaughnessy, Eckersley said "Yuck!" in response to Eduardo Rodriguez's poor pitching line in a minor league rehab start. For Price, that was far enough over the line to warrant another profane scolding.
"Standing up for my teammates," Price said, per Rob Bradford of WEEI.com. "Whatever crap I catch for that, I'm fine with it."
But that raises the question of what Price considers fair coverage, and something he told reporters (Bradford included) about Eckersley several weeks later catches the eye: "Ever since that's happened, he's been really good. He's said a lot of positive stuff about everybody in this clubhouse."
It's neither Drellich's nor Eckersley's job to sing the praises of the Red Sox.
It's Drellich's job to report the news. It's Eckersley's job to provide accurate commentary. That's inevitably going to involve telling it like it is about things that are less than awesome.
Like, for example, a rehab start that includes nine hits and six runs in three innings. Saying "Yuck!" to that isn't character assassination.
In Price's head, the two big battles in his media war sprang from unfair slights. In reality, they sprang from two guys doing their jobs.
In the Price vs. Eckersley feud, Red Sox fans are backing Eck. That became clear when he received a standing ovation at Fenway Park on Tuesday, which Jason Mastrodonato of the Boston Herald got on video:
Big time ovation for Eck from the Fenway crowd tonight: https://t.co/rMlbtL6osz
“I didn’t know how to react,” Eckersley said, per Buckley. “It was weird. You’re getting cheered for getting yelled at. It was weird.”
If Price's media feud is less about venting and more about trying to fill a leadership void in the Boston clubhouse following David Ortiz's retirement, that's also backfiring.
Dustin Pedroia, a 12-year Red Sox veteran, called the whole situation a "distraction" in a recent chat with ESPN.com's Scott Lauber and other reporters. Meanwhile, Ortiz and fellow Red Sox legend Wade Boggs have suggested Price needs to chill out.
Of course, nothing can sweep extracurricular strife under the rug like a fine performance on the field. The Red Sox would be getting that if Price were pitching like his best self, and it would render his petty war with the media nothing more than a silly sideshow.
But at the risk of straying into the kind of commentary that's apparently out of bounds for Price, he just isn't his best self anymore.

Though Price was mostly good and very durable in 2016, it's impossible to twist reality into an argument that he lived up to expectations. With his decreased velocity and career worsts in home runs allowed (30) and OPS against (.721), there were also warning signs that it wouldn't be a one-off.
Fast-forward to this year, and the elbow trouble that's found Price is as unsurprising as it is unwelcome. He's past 30, and he pitched more innings than anyone from 2010 to 2016. It would be a bigger surprise if his elbow stopped barking than if it became a more serious problem.
Even when he was pitching, Price was still struggling to stave off decline. The tale was told in his peripherals, such as a strikeout rate continuing to trend down and a hard-hit rate that remains elevated:
Thus, the bedrock layer of doom and gloom underneath all the other layers of doom and gloom: Price and the Red Sox may be stuck with each other.
Yes, his contract allows him to opt out after 2018. He told Peter Abraham of the Globe, however, that he has no intention to do so. But the way things are going, that promise rings hollow.
Price would be spurning four years and $127 million if he did opt out. A reasonable man would do that only if he believed he could do better on the open market.
But Price wouldn't get four years and $127 million if he were to hit the open market right now. And given the circumstances, it's beyond doubtful that a better deal will be out there next year. Even if he has to do so begrudgingly, taking the money he already has in hand will be the smart play.
So, good luck to Price on finding peace in Boston, as well as getting healthy and back on track.
And good luck to the Red Sox, who have a lot of money riding on all of the above.
    
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.


Adrian Beltre isn't keen on sticking with the Texas Rangers through a rebuild, and he made that much clear after Yu Darvish was dealt to the Los Angeles Dodgers at Monday's non-waiver trade deadline.
"At this stage of my career, I'm not here for a rebuild," Beltre said, according to the Dallas Morning News' Evan Grant. "But I don't think it will be. I think there is a possibility of this team playing better this year. I'm still focused on this year and don't want to think about it right now, but it would change things for me."
Beltre also admitted he was frustrated with the front office's decision to roll the dice on a Darvish deal since he thought the Rangers—who are 5.5 games back in the American League Wild Card race—still had a chance to make a run.
"We're not pleased with the trade," the third baseman added. "I don't think we are completely sold on the situation being [hopeless] for this year. It was a tough a situation. I know he's going to be a free agent and they were trying to get something. I try to understand the business side of it and I understand what they are doing, but the on the baseball side you are not happy. That doesn't matter. That's not going to change our mentality."
As Beltre acknowledged, trading Darvish isn't a surefire acknowledgment the Rangers are headed for a rebuild.
General manager Jon Daniels intimidated as much Monday when he said the Rangers were looking to capitalize on Darvish's expiring contract and bolster their prospect stockpile since the four-time All-Star is in a walk year:
Daniels reiterated Tuesday he doesn't view the move as an indication of a rebuild "at all," according to Grant.
That said, Texas still has loads of work to do before it's in position for a pennant again if the 2017 season has been any indication.
If the Rangers can't round into form by the 2018 trade deadline, it will be worth keeping tabs on Beltre's status since he'll then be in a contract year at the age of 39.
Something was in the air Tuesday night: home runs by MLB aces.
First was Washington Nationals ace and reigning Cy Young winner Max Scherzer, who crushed a three-run home run against the Miami Marlins for his first career dinger. Next came Chicago Cubs ace and last year's Cy Young runner-up Jon Lester, who hit a two-run home run for his first one ever. 
.@JLester34 is hereby admitted to the #PitchersWhoRake club. https://t.co/9qLSCgkHIY
Beyond the long balls, the night didn't go too well for either starter. Scherzer left the game in the second inning due to neck spasms, while Lester lasted just four innings with three runs allowed. 

Tampa Bay Rays third baseman Evan Longoria hit for his first career cycle Tuesday night in a 6-4 win against the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park.
The defining swing came in the ninth inning, when Longoria ripped a two-out double after smacking a two-run home run in the first, a triple in the third and a single to left field in the seventh.
Longoria was initially ruled out after sliding into second base in the ninth, but the call was overturned upon review:
Longoria joined Melvin Upton Jr. as the only players in franchise history to hit for the cycle. He's also the sixth player in Major League Baseball to achieve the feat this season, per MLB's official Twitter account.
It's fitting that Longoria started August with a cycle, namely because he was on a tear at the plate all through July.
After batting a solid .283 in June, Longoria broke out and slashed .320/.333/.505 with four home runs, 15 RBI and an .838 OPS in 105 plate appearances.
Now in the thick of the American League wild-card race, the Rays will hope Longoria can stay hot through August as they seek their first trip to the postseason since 2013.

If you'd asked in April which major league team was most likely to add a significant starting pitcher at the trade deadline, the answer would have been easy.
The Houston Astros.
If you'd asked in May, the answer would have been the same.
The Astros.
"One more very good starter could make them really dangerous," an American League scout told me, for a May 8 Bleacher Report column I did on Dallas Keuchel's resurgence.
Still could, but the difference now is the non-waiver trade deadline passed Monday afternoon. The Los Angeles Dodgers got Yu Darvish. The New York Yankees got Sonny Gray.
The Astros? They made a small deal for left-hander Francisco Liriano, who they plan to use out of the bullpen and could help. They did not get a starter.
As Keuchel said Tuesday, in an interview MLB.com's Brian McTaggart posted on Twitter, "disappointment is a little bit of an understatement."
Or a big bit of an understatement.
The Astros front office has done tons of good work building a super team that reached the deadline with a 16-game lead in the American League West and by far the best record in the entire American League. The Astros drafted well, developed well, signed free agents well and even traded well.
But anyone who picked them to win did it assuming they were going to add to the starting rotation. They were going to get Jose Quintana, who they were seriously linked to all winter (but was traded from the Chicago White Sox to the Chicago Cubs at the All-Star break). They were going to get Gray. They were going to get Darvish, as long as the Texas Rangers could get past the idea of helping their in-state rivals.

They didn't get any of them. Instead, Gray was introduced as the newest member of a budding American League superteam in New York at Yankee Stadium Tuesday. Darvish was on his way to the Los Angeles Dodgers, where players were celebrating yet another Dodger win.
"The fact that the front office did what they did at the deadline shows they're as serious as we are," Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner said, as Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times reported on Twitter.
And the fact that the Astros front office did what they did?
"I'd be lying if I didn't say I was disappointed," general manager Jeff Luhnow admitted to Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle. "I do believe that this team has what it takes to win in the postseason with the players we have. It doesn't mean we didn't try hard to improve those chances even just a little bit. Each little bit that you can improve your chances of winning in the postseason helps and we tried."
What's that line about how anybody can try? This is the major leagues. Results are what matter.
And just as hitters are expected to hit (not just to try) and pitchers are expected to get outs (not just to try) and managers are expected to put the right players in the right spots (not just to try), general managers of teams with a chance to win it all are expected to make needed deals at the deadline.
The fact Luhnow couldn't get it done doesn't mean the Astros can't win, no more than a Keuchel loss (there haven't been many of those) or a Jose Altuve 0-for-4 (there haven't been many of those either) would by itself stop this team. The Astros were 15-9 in July even though Keuchel (pinched nerve in his neck) pitched only three innings and No. 2 starter Lance McCullers Jr. had a 9.64 ERA.
McCullers went on the disabled list because of back discomfort a few hours before the trade deadline, which only seemed to add to the urgency to make a trade.
The Astros couldn't get it done, despite a farm system that's well regarded in the game. They couldn't get it done, even though Luhnow told Kaplan they were so close on some deals he wouldn't name that he had been "90 percent-plus" they were going to get done.
Maybe he was referring to talks with the Baltimore Orioles, who inexplicably didn't trade closer Zach Britton and even more inexplicably positioned themselves as deadline buyers. Or maybe he was talking about something else.
It doesn't really matter now, because the deals didn't get done. It doesn't matter, because at a time of year that is partly about getting better and at least a small bit about front offices breathing more life into a clubhouse, the Astros' non-moves got this response from their current ace:
When asked about Trade Deadline, Keuchel said: "I'm not going to lie. Disappointment is a little bit of an understatement." https://t.co/hUgk3M45jg
Listen in as reporters give Keuchel a possible out, suggesting that maybe the front office simply believed the Astros as currently constituted are already good enough to win. Listen in as Keuchel's tone doesn't change.
Maybe Luhnow can still change the tone with a waiver deal in August. Detroit Tigers right-hander Justin Verlander has a contract that should see him sail through waivers, and a 2.25 ERA since making a mechanical fix three starts back. He also has a full no-trade clause and would need to approve any deal.
Or maybe the Astros go on to win their first World Series crown anyway. The 1998 Yankees tasted deadline disappointment when the pitcher they coveted—Randy Johnson—ended up somewhere else at the deadline.
He ended up in Houston. The Yankees won the World Series. It's not always about who you get at the deadline.
Don't try to explain that to Dallas Keuchel, though. Not today.
             
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

Jon Lester on Tuesday became the 25th left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball history to reach 2,000 strikeouts.
Lester joined the exclusive club in the top of the fourth inning when he struck out Arizona Diamondbacks pinch hitter Jack Reinheimer.
According to ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers, the only other active southpaws with 2,000 strikeouts are CC Sabathia, Cole Hamels and Clayton Kershaw.
It was an eventful evening for Lester, who also did some surprising damage at the plate.
Though the 33-year-old entered Tuesday as a lifetime .072 hitter, he connected on the first home run of his career, launching a two-run shot to left-center in the bottom of the third inning:
Lester finished 2-for-2 at the plate and struck out nine over four innings on the bump, allowing three earned runs on five hits and three walks.
A photo posted by MLB ⚾ (@mlb)
Catch of the year?
Cleveland Indians outfielder Austin Jackson staked a claim to that honor Tuesday night by robbing Hanley Ramirez of a home run at Fenway Park. 
Jackson tracked down the fly ball before leaping to make the catch. Despite flipping over the short wall into the bullpen, he somehow managed to hang on to the ball.
Despite Jackson's heroics, the Indians trailed 9-7 in the seventh inning.

Miami Marlins president of baseball operations Michael Hill confirmed starting pitcher Edinson Volquez will undergo Tommy John surgery, MLB.com's Joe Frisaro reported Tuesday.
The Miami Herald's Clark Spencer reported Volquez is also dealing with a knee injury that would've been season-ending on its own.
The right-hander appeared in 17 games this year, going 4-8 with a 4.19 ERA and a 4.34 FIP, per Baseball Reference.
Volquez is still under contract with the Marlins for the 2018 season, with $13 million due to him next year. Undergoing Tommy John surgery will almost certainly mean he's unable to pitch at all in the final season of his contract.
Volquez turned 34 in July, so it's not a stretch to say his elbow injury could potentially be career-threatening if he's unable to pitch in 2018. Few teams will likely be willing to take a chance on a 35-year-old pitcher coming off Tommy John prior to the start of the 2019 season.

Washington Nationals pitcher Max Scherzer had neck issues that caused him to leave Tuesday's game against the Miami Marlins early.
As Mark Zuckerman of MASN described, the starter immediately motioned to the bench that he couldn't continue after throwing an errant warm-up pitch.
Jamal Collier of MLB.com reported that he experienced neck spasms "after sleeping on it funny" and left for precautionary reasons.
Scherzer had completed just one scoreless inning on seven pitches before the spasms, although he also hit a three-run home run in the top of the second, his first of his career.
Although a finger injury limited him in the preseason, Scherzer remains one of the most reliable pitchers in the majors. Entering Tuesday, he had a 12-5 record and a 2.23 ERA in 21 starts. He also led the league with 145.1 innings pitched.
His consistency and ability to stay on the field are what have made him such a dangerous weapon for the Nationals.
The 33-year-old has made at least 30 starts every year since 2009, his first full season in the league. In his last four seasons, the right-hander tallied at least 210 innings pitched while earning an All-Star nod each year.
"I'm built for this," he said in February, per Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post. "I'm in my prime. I want the workload. I want all 33 starts."
Scherzer is also coming off the best year of his career, posting a 2.96 ERA while also leading the league in wins (20), strikeouts (284) and WHIP (0.968). This production helped him take home his second career Cy Young award, his first in the National League after winning the American League version with the Detroit Tigers in 2013.
It was the third time in four years he led his league in wins.
With Stephen Strasburg and Joe Ross already on the disabled list, however, another injury to a starting pitcher could be a tough blow for the Nationals.

Houston Astros starting pitcher Dallas Keuchel said Tuesday "disappointment is a little bit of an understatement" concerning the team's lack of moves before Monday's MLB non-waiver trade deadline. 
Brian McTaggart of MLB.com passed along comments from Keuchel after he watched fellow World Series contenders like the Los Angeles Dodgers, Washington Nationals and New York Yankees make notable additions before the deadline, while the Astros remained mostly quiet:
When asked about Trade Deadline, Keuchel said: "I'm not going to lie. Disappointment is a little bit of an understatement." https://t.co/hUgk3M45jg
Houston made one move Monday. It acquired veteran starting pitcher Francisco Liriano, who's slated to work out of the bullpen, from the Toronto Blue Jays in exchange for outfielder Nori Aoki and prospect Teoscar Hernandez.
Meanwhile, the Yankees made several moves throughout July to bolster their roster. They added starters Sonny Gray and Jaime Garcia along with third baseman Todd Frazier and pen assets David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle.
Over in the National League, the already star-studded Dodgers made Monday's biggest splash by picking up starting pitcher Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers. The Nats finished a month-long revamp of the back end of their bullpen by dealing for Minnesota Twins closer Brandon Kintzler.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports provided his take following L.A.'s last-minute deal for Darvish:
great job by cubs, nats and others. but here are my new odds for dodgers to win world series: 1-9
Houston currently owns the league's second-best record at 69-36, five games behind the Dodgers. So an argument could be made it didn't need to make a blockbuster deal, though placing starter Lance McCullers on the disabled list on deadline day will put the team's pitching depth to the test.
While it's uncommon for a player to come out so strongly about a team's lack of moves, it shows Keuchel's desire to get the Astros over the hump.
They have come a long way from losing over 100 games in three straight seasons (2011-13), but it's fair to wonder whether one more marquee addition could have bolstered the roster.

Boston Red Sox rookie third baseman Rafael Devers smacked a RBI single to right field to extend the team's lead to 6-0 in the bottom of the seventh inning Tuesday.
All in all, Devers collected four hits—three singles and a double—on the night. The effort made him the third-youngest player in Red Sox history to 4-for-4 or better in a game, per the Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com). At 20 years and 280 days old, only Tony Conigliaro (at 19 years, 192 days and 20 years, 101 days) and Babe Ruth (20 years, 165 days) accomplished the same feat at a younger age.
At just 16 years old, Devers inked a contract with the Red Sox in Aug. 2013 that included a $1.5 million signing bonus, per Baseball America. He was rated among the top international prospects, standing 6'1", 215 pounds at the time.
He initially broke the minor league ranks in 2014 but didn't graduate from rookie league baseball until 2015. Devers started at High-A Salem beginning in 2016 and took multiple steps from Double-A to Triple-A and then to the majors all within the 2017 campaign.
Devers was only recently recalled from the minor league ranks, making his major league debut for Boston on July 25 and going hitless with two walks and a run scored in the contest. 
While many rookies can have a tough time adjusting to the pitching at the major league level, that hasn't been the case for Devers. He has reached base in each of the five games since his debut, batting .417/.481/1.231 with two home runs and four RBI.
With Pablo Sandoval out the door and Dustin Pedroia on the disabled list, the Red Sox—at least momentarily—have handed the keys to third base over to Devers. If he continues to produce at or near the level he has since breaking into the majors, it may be difficult to send him packing back to Triple-A even when Pedroia is healthy.

The Boston Red Sox announced Tuesday that second baseman Dustin Pedroia has been placed on the 10-day disabled list due to left knee inflammation. 
The team added his stint on the DL is retroactive to July 29.
Pedroia, 33, continues to be a key contributor for the Red Sox. He's hit at least .290 in all but three of his MLB seasons, and in 2016 hit an impressive .318 with 15 home runs, 74 RBI and 105 runs scored. This year, he's hitting .307 with six homers, 54 RBI and 36 runs scored.
Injuries have been a concern later in his career, however, with Pedroia missing 96 games between the 2014-15 seasons. Additionally, he had arthroscopic knee surgery in the offseason and dealt with a sprained wrist earlier this year.
"He's played almost every day," president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski said in late May after Pedroia sprained his wrist, per Jason Mastrodonato of the Boston Herald. "He's had to deal with a lot of things, which is very unfortunate, but he battles through it."
This latest injury is a setback for the Red Sox, albeit in the short-term, given that the team trailed the New York Yankees by a half-game coming into Tuesday.
With Pedroia sidelined, Eduardo Nunez has stepped into the starting role.

Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve finished Monday's game against the Tampa Bay Rays 2-for-4 with two RBI.
The Astros put up 14 runs in the contest to take the final game of July, while Altuve's two-hit night upped his batting average to .485 for the month. His mark is the highest by a player with at least 100 plate appearances during a calendar month since Todd Helton's .512 batting average in May 2000, per MLB Stat of the Day.
Altuve collected at least one hit in all but two of his games played during July, notching four home runs and 21 RBI while stealing eight bases. Although July's Player of the Month award hasn't been announced, he seems like a leading candidate to earn it.
Despite the 27-year-old's fantastic month at the dish, the Astros turned in just a 15-9 record over that span, just slightly better than June's 16-11 mark and the second-worst month overall this season. The team started the second half off somewhat slowly as well, posting just a 9-7 record through the first 16 games.
Houston didn't make a ton of splashy deals at the non-waiver trade deadline Monday, but they did pick up veteran starter Francisco Liriano from the Toronto Blue Jays, per Sports Illustrated. His 5.88 ERA on the season isn't overly impressive, but he's been a bit better in his last couple of starts.
Altuve and the Astros flip begin a new month at the diamond Tuesday, facing the Rays in the second of a four-game series against the foe.

The Los Angeles Dodgers closed out the month of July with a 3-2 victory over archrival, the San Francisco Giants, on Sunday.
It marked the team's 20th win of the month, giving the Dodgers the best monthly record since the 1936 New York Giants, per MLB Stat of the Day. The Giants posted a 24-3 record in August of that season and the Chicago Cubs posted a 23-3 September record in 1935. They are the only two teams with better monthly marks since 1913.
Los Angeles started the month just 1-1 but followed that with an 11-game winning streak. After two straight losses to the Atlanta Braves, the Dodgers finished July on another eight-game win streak and rides that as the calendar flips to August.
Despite the magnificent showing during July, the Dodgers weren't content sitting still during the trade deadline. They started Monday by dealing for two left-handed relievers—Tony Watson from the Pittsburgh Pirates and Tony Cingrani from the Cincinnati Reds, per Sports Illustrated. The cream of the deadline crop arose as the deadline buzzer loomed, as the club successfully spun a deal for Texas Rangers ace Yu Darvish.
Even though he's just a rental, Darvish was expected to fetch a handsome sum as one of the premier starters available at the deadline. However, the Dodgers managed to acquire him without dealing either of their top two prospects in outfielder Alex Verdugo and pitcher Walker Buehler.
Darvish will serve as the team's de facto ace until Clayton Kershaw returns from his stint on the disabled list due to lower-back tightness. When Kershaw returns to full health, the Dodgers will arguably possess the best starting rotation in MLB.
The team's new starting weapon is slated to slot into the rotation Friday against the New York Mets, but the Dodgers play their first game of August on Tuesday against the Atlanta Braves.

The Oakland Athletics announced there will be an investigation into an incident involving a security guard and a fan during Monday night's 8-5 victory over the San Francisco Giants at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum.
On Tuesday, Filipa Ioannou of the San Francisco Chronicle reported video of the altercation shows a female security staffer striking another woman in the third deck. Witnesses alleged the attack "appeared unprovoked and that the security guard was booed when she returned to the area."
The A's posted a message on social media about the situation:
https://t.co/kE0zT5c6r8
Ioannou noted other members of the security team were forced to restrain the guard.
Daniel M. Jimenez of the Mercury News provided video from the hectic aftermath:
.@athletics security can't figure out what to do after an A's security guard attacked a fan @deadspin https://t.co/vRopb2wCpA
Ethan Gaines of KNBR added "other security guards in the area were described as allegedly being aggressive toward fans as well."
Matt Keller of ABC 7 News reported Oakland police eventually arrived on scene to "clear things out and restore order."
Details about what happened leading up to the incident weren't immediately released.

The much-anticipated trade deadline came and went Monday afternoon, but that does not mean teams are done wheeling and dealing in Major League Baseball. 
Waiver-wire deals can still be made throughout the month of August, and these trades are more involved than standard trades because players must pass through the waiver process before a deal can be completed.
David Stearns, the general manager of the Milwaukee Brewers, believes more August waiver deals could be made than is often the case, per MLB.com Brewers writer Adam McCalvy.
The Detroit Tigers engaged the Chicago Cubs in a key deadline trade when they sent pitcher Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila to the World Series champions for prospects Jeimer Candelario and Isaac Paredes.
However, the Tigers did not move veteran pitcher Justin Verlander, who was involved in a number of trade scenarios but none of them came to fruition.
The Tigers are not done trying to complete a deal, according to Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press. Verlander will likely clear waivers, and that could improve the trade possibilities. 
Baseball insider Jon Morosi also tweeted along the same vein, saying Verlander's 10-year, $219.5-million contract that runs through 2019 would be less of an issue this month than it was in July.
Marco Estrada is still a Jay. https://t.co/jFtuxxLIZL
The Toronto Blue Jays are in last place in the American League East with a 49-57 record and are likely to be sellers throughout the month of August. They have starting pitchers Marco Estrada and J.A. Happ, who could turn out to be difference-makers for teams that pursue those two for the season's stretch run. 
Sportsnet.ca baseball editor Ben Nicholson-Smith said the Blue Jays would continue to pursue trades in August, based on a conversation with Toronto general manager Ross Atkins.
Estrada will be a free agent at the end of the season, while Happ's contract runs through the 2018 season.
The Philadelphia Phillies could also be involved in August movement, according to Corey Seidman of CSNPhilly.com. 
Philadelphia general manager Matt Klentak traded four players prior to the deadline, including Pat Neshek (Colorado Rockies), Howie Kendrick (Washington Nationals), Jeremy Hellickson (Baltimore Orioles) and Joaquin Benoit (Pittsburgh Pirates).
As a result, the Phillies don't have a lot of moves to make at this point, but one potential deal involves outfielder Daniel Nava, who is hitting .303 with three home runs and 17 RBI in 152 at bats for the Phillies. He can also play first base.

Now that we've had time to digest all the July trade action, it's time for an updated look at how all 30 MLB farm systems stack up.
The following factors helped determine the rankings of players and teams:
We've incorporated a tier system to help differentiate between the different levels of talent. Here's a quick explanation: 
A player must not have passed the rookie-eligibility limits (130 AB, 50 IP, 45 days on roster) to be included in these rankings. For reference, here's a look at our previous update.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
     
Farm System Overview
The Los Angeles Angels were short on moveable parts as the deadline arrived and only wound up making one trade—sending reliever David Hernandez to the Arizona Diamondbacks for 20-year-old right-hander Luis Madero.
He doesn't crack the team's top 10 prospects, but the Venezuelan-born sinkerballer provides intriguing upside in a system lacking in that department.
Continued progress from recent draft picks Jo Adell, Griffin Canning, Matt Thaiss and Brandon Marsh would make the top of this system look a lot better, but either way, it's sorely lacking in overall depth and talent.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
     
Farm System Overview
The additions of Nick Pratto and M.J. Melendez and the emergence of Khalil Lee gives the Kansas City Royals a handful of intriguing prospects, but the stalled progression of flame-thrower Josh Staumont (6.41 ERA, 7.6 BB/9) and an injury-plagued season by Hunter Dozier hurts.
Lee, a third-round pick last season who was a two-way standout in high school, has posted a .747 OPS with 16 doubles, 13 home runs and 18 stolen bases while making the jump to full-season ball.
The decision to push for one more playoff run with the current core as opposed to selling off upcoming free agents Lorenzo Cain, Mike Moustakas, Eric Hosmer and Jason Vargas cost the Royals a golden opportunity to bolster the system. It's hard to argue with the move, though, given that they currently hold a wild-card spot.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None 
      
Farm System Overview
Despite receiving nibbles on Dan Straily and Dee Gordon, the Miami Marlins failed to swing a deal on deadline day.
However, they did move relievers A.J. Ramos and David Phelps in the days leading up to the deadline, picking up a pair of quality prospects in right-hander Merandy Gonzalez and outfielder Brayan Hernandez.
Gonzalez, 21, has gone 12-3 with a 1.78 ERA, 0.98 WHIP and 89 strikeouts in 106 innings between Single-A and High-A in the Mets organization this year. The 19-year-old Hernandez still offers the same intriguing tools that made him one of the top prospects in the 2014 international free-agent class when he landed a $1.85 million bonus from the Mariners.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: IF Dawel Lugo
       
Farm System Overview
The Arizona Diamondbacks added J.D. Martinez, David Hernandez and Adam Rosales to the roster in July without giving up any highly regarded prospects beyond infielder Dawel Lugo, who went to Detroit in the Martinez deal.
Jon Duplantier (10-1, 1.44 ERA, 0.96 WHIP, 111 K, 100 IP in A/A+) and Taylor Clarke (9-7, 2.91 ERA, 1.19 WHIP, 107 K, 111.1 IP) have surpassed Anthony Banda as the team's top pitching prospects, while No. 7 overall pick Pavin Smith jumped straight to short-season A-ball as the club's new top overall prospect.
The system looks better than it did when the season began, but that's not saying much.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
      
Farm System Overview
Christian Arroyo is hitting .396/.461/.604 over 102 plate appearances in Triple-A this season, but a good portion of his year has been spent struggling at the MLB level and then sidelined—first with a wrist injury and then with a broken left hand.
Meanwhile, right-hander Tyler Beede (4.79 ERA, 1.47 WHIP, .282 BAA) has taken a step backward in Triple-A, leaving slugger Chris Shaw (.848 OPS, 26 2B, 16 HR) as the team's most productive top-end prospect in 2017.
The front office managed to flip Eduardo Nunez to the Red Sox for a pair of low-level prospects in right-handers Shaun Anderson and Gregory Santos, but that did little to boost the farm system's standing.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: OF Eloy Jimenez, OF Ian Happ, RHP Dylan Cease, 3B Jeimer Candelario, SS Isaac Paredes
       
Farm System Overview
The Chicago Cubs paid a steep price to acquire Jose Quintana from the crosstown White Sox, sending Eloy Jimenez (No. 4) and Dylan Cease (No. 38), who both ranked among the league's top 50 prospects in our most recent update.
Then they shipped Jeimer Candelario and Isaac Paredes—two players who would have ranked comfortably inside the organizational top 10 in this update—to the Tigers for reliever Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila.
Throw in Ian Happ's graduation off their prospect list, as he exhausted his rookie eligibility, and it's easy to see why the Cubs fell further than anyone else in this update. The future is now on the North Side, so it's hard to argue with the all-in approach.    

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
       
Farm System Overview
Slowly but surely, the Detroit Tigers are building a respectable farm system.
While the return for J.D. Martinez proved largely underwhelming aside from the addition of Dawel Lugo, they did pick up a pair of quality prospects in Jeimer Candelario and Isaac Paredes when they sent Justin Wilson and Alex Avila to the Cubs.
Meanwhile, Matt Manning (2.22 ERA, 29 K, 28.1 IP) has looked sharp in his first pro action, Christin Stewart (.859 OPS, 21 2B, 22 HR) continues to look like a middle-of-the-order bat in the making and Beau Burrows (8-6, 2.70 ERA, 1.21 WHIP, 105 K, 103.1 IP) is starting to live up to being a former first-round selection.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: OF Tyler O'Neill, OF Brayan Hernandez
      
Farm System Overview
The Seattle Mariners sent power-hitting outfield prospect Tyler O'Neill to the Cardinals in exchange for left-hander Marco Gonzales in one of the more puzzling moves of July.
Even prior to missing time to Tommy John surgery, Gonzales was never thought of as highly in prospect circles as O'Neill—who was admittedly having a down year after a breakout 2016 campaign.
The system still boasts a pair of intriguing former college standouts in Kyle Lewis and Evan White, who could be ready to help at the big league level in short order. Nick Neidert (10-5, 3.25 ERA, 1.13 WHIP, 114 K, 113.2 IP) has also established himself as the clear No. 1 pitching prospect in the system, reaching Double-A as a 20-year-old.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
       
Farm System Overview
The Boston Red Sox added Eduardo Nunez and Addison Reed for the stretch run without coughing up any of their top young talents as they sent out five prospects total, but none who were close to cracking the top 10 within the organization.
Rafael Devers has arrived in the majors with a bang, going 10-for-24 with two doubles and two home runs in his first six games. He'll have a chance to make a serious impact down the stretch while potentially plugging what's been a black hole at third base.
A breakout season from Michael Chavis (.977 OPS, 26 2B, 25 HR) and strong performances from 2016 fifth-round pick Mike Shawaryn (7-5, 3.93 ERA, 1.20 WHIP, 133 K, 100.2 IP) and 2016 international signee Bryan Mata (3.29 ERA, 51 K, 52.0 IP) have given the system some promising names to help replace the talent that was surrendered to acquire Chris Sale.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
                
Farm System Overview
The Texas Rangers made the right move in biting the bullet and trading free-agent-to-be Yu Darvish at the deadline, as they picked up a nice package of prospects from the Dodgers.
Willie Calhoun (.931 OPS, 24 2B, 23 HR) was the headliner in that deal, while right-hander A.J. Alexy and infielder Brendon Davis have both shown the potential in the lower levels of the minors to eventually emerge as top-10-caliber prospects.
This system has taken a huge hit in recent seasons as the front office has swung deals for the likes of Cole Hamels, Jonathan Lucroy and Carlos Beltran. However, it's back on the rise now as Texas potentially heads for a retooling period of sorts.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: RHP Merandy Gonzalez
      
Farm System Overview
First of all, happy Amed Rosario Day to those who observe!
The New York Mets' top prospect will make his MLB debut Tuesday after hitting .328/.367/.466 with 33 extra-base hits and 19 stolen bases in 94 games with Triple-A Las Vegas this season.
The Mets did a healthy mix of buying and selling at the deadline, shipping out upcoming free agents Addison Reed and Lucas Duda while replacing Reed in the bullpen with A.J. Ramos—who is controllable through next season.
The biggest prospect to move in those deals was right-hander Merandy Gonzalez, the headliner going to Miami in the Ramos deal. So while the Mets' place in the rankings doesn't change, the fanbase should be plenty excited for a healthy dose of Rosario and fellow top prospect Dominic Smith down the stretch.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: OF Bradley Zimmer
      
Farm System Overview
It was a considerably quieter July for the Cleveland Indians this time around after they swung the blockbuster deal to acquire relief ace Andrew Miller from the Yankees a year ago.
They have two of the game's top prospects in right-hander Triston McKenzie and catcher Francisco Mejia, both of whom are well ahead of the developmental curve and showing legitimate star potential. However, Bradley Zimmer's graduation costs them a few spots, and there's a fairly steep drop-off in talent after that aforementioned duo and slugger Bobby Bradley.
The performance of recent draft picks Nolan Jones, Will Benson and Quentin Holmes will go a long way toward determining where this system will rank going forward.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: OF Raimel Tapia 
      
Farm System Overview
The Colorado Rockies have graduated a Tier 1 prospect in outfielder Raimel Tapia since these rankings were last updated
However, a standout season from Ryan McMahon (.364 BA, 1.004 OPS, 36 2B, 17 HR) and a breakout performance from Colton Welker (.365 BA, .941 OPS, 24 XBH) keeps them from dropping in the rankings.
A trio of lower-level prospects were sent to the Phillies in exchange for All-Star reliever Pat Neshek, and a yet-to-be-named player will be sent to the Rangers to complete a deal for catcher Jonathan Lucroy. All things considered, it was a productive deadline without costing much in the way of young talent.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
            
Farm System Overview
Sean-Reid Foley's drop (4.58 ERA, 1.43 WHIP, 4.0 BB/9) from a Tier 1 to a Tier 2 prospect wound up costing the Toronto Blue Jays several spots in these rankings.
That said, there might not be a more exciting prospect duo this season than Vladimir Guerrero Jr. (.855 OPS, 31 XBH) and Bo Bichette (1.044 OPS, 51 XBH) and the system has enough other high-ceiling talents in the lower levels that it could quickly climb back toward the top 10.
Outfielder Teoscar Hernandez didn't quite crack the organization's top 10, but acquiring him from the Astros for Francisco Liriano might very well wind up as the most lopsided deal of the 2017 deadline if he can realize his potential as an everyday outfielder.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
            
Farm System Overview
With Austin Hays (.328 BA, .968 OPS, 23 2B, 26 HR) officially making the jump to Tier 1, the Baltimore Orioles climb seven spots in these rankings despite opting against selling at the deadline.
Had they found a suitable return for Zach Britton and/or Brad Brach, they could have climbed even higher.
For now, this remains a top-heavy system that has received a significant boost in the rankings from the breakout performances of Hays and Ryan Mountcastle (.847 OPS, 39 2B, 15 HR) as well as the selection of left-hander D.L. Hall as an absolute steal at No. 21 overall back in June.
Keep an eye on hard-throwing lefty Tanner Scott (1.83 ERA, 74 K, 59 IP, .174 BAA) and outfielder Cedric Mullins (.925 OPS, 25 XBH) as two other prospects on the rise.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: LHP Adalberto Mejia
       
Farm System Overview
The Minnesota Twins might not have added anyone to their organizational top 10, but they were able to land some quality prospects while flipping starter Jaime Garcia and All-Star reliever Brandon Kintzler.
Zack Littell was the headliner in the deal that sent Garcia to the Yankees. The 21-year-old has gone 14-1 with a 1.87 ERA, 1.08 WHIP and 109 strikeouts in 115.1 innings in Double-A as his results have belied his stuff.
Meanwhile, the Kintzler deal brought another intriguing arm in 6'5" southpaw Tyler Watson. A 34th-round pick in 2015, he's opened eyes with his advanced feel for pitching, and further development of his changeup could make him a middle-of-the-rotation candidate.
Two prospects on the rise: 18-year-old Brusdar Graterol (1.93 ERA, 27 K, 23.1 IP) and potential catcher of the future Mitch Garver (.884 OPS, 21 2B, 15 HR).

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
               
Farm System Overview
After graduating Tyler Glasnow and Josh Bell from the prospect ranks early in the season, the Pittsburgh Pirates did well to restock the system with an aggressive draft that saw them select and sign four potential first-round-caliber talents in Shane Baz, Steven Jennings, Conner Uselton and Calvin Mitchell.
The stalled development of Austin Meadows is troubling, though.
Most expected the 22-year-old to arrive in the majors at some point this season, but instead, he's hit just .250/.314/.363 while dealing with nagging hamstring issues.
It will be interesting to see how the team sorts out the middle infield logjam of Kevin Newman, Cole Tucker and Kevin Kramer as all three prospects push closer to the majors.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: 3B Sheldon Neuse, LHP Jesus Luzardo, LHP Tyler Watson
              
Farm System Overview
The Washington Nationals added Brandon Kintzler, Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson to what had been a shaky relief corps, and while it cost them a trio of quality prospects, they didn't have to part with any top-tier guys. 
There's not a more top-heavy system in the league right now as Victor Robles, Juan Soto, Carter Kieboom and Erick Fedde are all easy choices for inclusion in leaguewide top 100 lists, but the fall-off from there is steep.
First-round pick Seth Romero and second-round pick Wil Crowe have the upside to join that group, and Andrew Stevenson has the glove to be an everyday center fielder if his bat continues to develop. As of now, it's hard to rank this group any higher, though.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: 2B Willie Calhoun
           
Farm System Overview
The Los Angeles Dodgers managed to add Yu Darvish for the stretch run without giving up anyone from the vaunted group of Walker Buehler, Alex Verdugo and Yadier Alvarez.
Willie Calhoun has the offensive potential to be a star, and A.J. Alexy was among the most promising arms in the system, but as far as all-in moves are concerned, the Darvish deal wasn't the blow to the farm system it could have been.
They also added lefty relievers Tony Watson and Tony Cingrani without parting with any further top-tier prospect talent, so while losing Calhoun costs the Dodgers a few spots, the big league roster got considerably better without making the farm system all that much worse.
That's how you win the trade deadline, folks.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
               
Farm System Overview
The St. Louis Cardinals will regret not trading free-agent-to-be Lance Lynn or selling high on Tommy Pham if they fail to reach the postseason this year, but they still managed to come away from the trade deadline as winners.
It's amazing how they turned Marco Gonzales into Tyler O'Neill, even with O'Neill's step back with the jump to Triple-A this season. He still has legit 30-homer upside, and Gonzales still looks like a potential No. 5 starter at best.
Jack Flaherty (10-3, 2.24 ERA, 1.04 WHIP, 118 K, 116.2 IP) has surpassed Luke Weaver as the team's top active pitching prospect, as Alex Reyes continues to work his way back from preseason Tommy John surgery.
Guys such as Carson Kelly, Magneuris Sierra, Harrison Bader, Dakota Hudson, O'Neill, Weaver and Flaherty are all either ready or close to ready to make an impact at the MLB level, so it will be interesting to see how all those pieces fit in the coming year.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: RHP Francis Martes, OF Teoscar Hernandez
               
Farm System Overview
Graduating top pitching prospect Francis Martes and trading outfielder Teoscar Hernandez to the Blue Jays for Francisco Liriano bumps the Houston Astros from No. 5 down to the No. 10 spot.
However, the system still features a top-15 overall prospect in Kyle Tucker, a pair of potential front-line arms in Franklin Perez and Forrest Whitley, and an MLB-ready 20/20 threat in Derek Fisher.
There's more high-end talent on the rise, too.
Yordan Alvarez (.313 BA, .935 OPS, 24 XBH) was acquired at the deadline last year for reliever Josh Fields after signing for a $2 million bonus, and his 6'5", 225-pound frame offers intriguing power potential.
Catcher Jake Rogers was a third-round pick in last year's draft and widely regarded as the best defensive backstop in the class. Now, an .829 OPS, 19 doubles and 15 home runs have quickly made him one of the best two-way prospects at the position.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
      
Farm System Overview
The Cincinnati Reds should enjoy their spot inside the top 10 while they can, as right-hander Luis Castillo is just two innings away from exhausting his prospect eligibility.
There's still a lot to like about this group of young talent, though, starting with Hunter Greene and Nick Senzel at the top. Greene has a chance to be a generational talent and a true ace, while Senzel could be ready to take over as the everyday third baseman by next season.
It was a quiet deadline for the Reds, as their only move was to send reliever Tony Cingrani to the Dodgers for Scott Van Slyke and catching prospect Hendrik Clementina.
The 20-year-old is currently in his fourth year of rookie ball, but he's hitting .370/.439/.554 with nine extra-base hits while throwing out 30 percent of base stealers, so he'll be one to keep an eye on once he finally makes the jump to full-season ball.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
       
Farm System Overview
Did the Oakland Athletics really get the best possible return for Sonny Gray?
As Michael Baumann of The Ringer wrote: "[Dustin] Fowler blew out his knee this year, [Jorge] Mateo's best tool is his speed and [James] Kaprielian could turn out to be a god, but he's also only thrown 29 minor league innings in three years. That just doesn't feel like the appropriate return on a 27-year-old top-end starter with two more years of team control. There's no [Eloy] Jimenez in this package."
In fact, the best pickup of the deadline could wind up being left-hander Jesus Luzardo, who came over along with infield prospect Sheldon Neuse in the trade that sent Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson to the Nationals.
The 19-year-old has a 1.61 ERA and a 25-to-1 strikeout-to-walk ratio in 22.1 innings this year, and he has legitimate front-line upside if everything comes together.
Catching prospect Sean Murphy is also one to watch as he's hitting .271/.330/.458 with 16 doubles and 11 home runs while reaching Double-A in his first full professional season.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: RHP Dinelson Lamet
          
Farm System Overview
While the San Diego Padres didn't pull the trigger on trading standout reliever Brad Hand at the deadline, he could still net them a significant return down the road thanks to team control through 2019.
Instead, it's Fernando Tatis Jr. making the jump to Tier 1 that earns the team two spots in the rankings, as the 18-year-old is hitting .268/.364/.491 with 19 doubles and 17 home runs for Single-A Fort Wayne.
The other prospect on the rise is right-hander Michel Baez, who landed a $3 million bonus out of Cuba as part of last year's international spending spree.
The 21-year-old is an imposing figure on the mound at 6'8" and 220 pounds, and the early returns have been terrific as he's posted a 1.30 ERA, 0.63 WHIP and a 54-to-5 strikeout-to-walk ratio over 34.2 innings.
It's a dominant performance similar to what Dodgers prospect Yadier Alvarez did in his pro debut a year ago, and he could jump up to Tier 1 status himself in short order.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
               
Farm System Overview
There have been a lot of moving parts in the Philadelphia Phillies system over the past year.
While former top prospects J.P. Crawford and Jorge Alfaro have fallen flat in the upper levels of the minors, others such as precocious right-hander Sixto Sanchez and infielders Rhys Hoskins and Scott Kingery have seen their stock increase dramatically.
The result is a farm system that has more or less maintained its spot in these rankings, despite considerable shuffling on that top prospect list you see above.
Sanchez is the one to watch here, as the 19-year-old has gone 5-3 with a 2.41 ERA, 0.82 WHIP and a 64-to-9 strikeout-to-walk ratio over 67.1 innings in Single-A. He has the makings of a stellar three-pitch mix and advanced command, albeit with limited projectability remaining in his 6'0", 185-pound frame.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: RHP Jacob Faria, 1B Casey Gillaspie
      
Farm System Overview
The Tampa Bay Rays move into the top five more as a result of the Houston Astros' falling out than anything else.
In fact, with Jacob Faria's graduation and Casey Gillaspie's trade to the White Sox for reliever Dan Jennings—among other minor deadline moves—they've actually done more subtracting as small-scale buyers than adding.
Still, with two marquee prospects in Brent Honeywell and Willy Adames, another potential star in first-round pick Brendan McKay and one of the fastest-rising teenagers in the sport in Jesus Sanchez, the Rays provide plenty of justification for their ranking.
Wander Franco is also a new addition as he was signed to a $3.825 million bonus as the No. 1 prospect in this year's international class, per MLB.com. 

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: LHP Josh Hader
           
Farm System Overview
A streaking Chicago Cubs team and the unshakeable feeling that they were playing with house money this year wound up being enough for the Milwaukee Brewers to opt against aggressively buying at the deadline.
They did pick up relievers Anthony Swarzak, Jeremy Jeffress and Tyler Webb in exchange for prospects Ryan Cordell, Tayler Scott and Garrett Cooper, respectively. None of those moves were anything close to a serious blow to the team's long-term plans, though.
Luis Ortiz and Brandon Woodruff have emerged as the top pitching prospects in the system now that Josh Hader has moved on to the majors, but keep an eye on Corbin Burnes.
A fourth-round pick in 2016, he's gone 8-3 with a 1.65 ERA, 0.90 WHIP and 110 strikeouts in 114.1 innings between High-A and Double-A and could reach his ceiling as a middle-of-the-rotation starter in the near future.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: OF Blake Rutherford, RHP James Kaprielian, IF/OF Jorge Mateo, OF Dustin Fowler
              
Farm System Overview
With the AL East title within reach and expectations still to win now even with the club clearly focused on the future, the New York Yankees were in a precarious position this July.
When the dust settled, they acquired Sonny Gray, Tommy Kahnle, David Robertson, Todd Frazier and Jaime Garcia, and the farm system still has enough elite-level talent and overall depth to fall just one spot to No. 3 in the rankings.
Blake Rutherford and James Kaprielian both have huge upside, but the team is not lacking for outfield talent in the case of Rutherford, and there's no guarantee Kapreilian ever stays healthy enough to realize his ace potential.
The rise of 19-year-old Estevan Florial, who is hitting .297/.373/.483 with 37 extra-base hits and 17 stolen bases for Single-A Charleston, has also given this already stacked system another elite-level talent.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: LHP Sean Newcomb
                  
Farm System Overview
There was a good deal of debate over who the No. 1 prospect in the Atlanta Braves system was once Dansby Swanson graduated off that list earlier this season.
Now there's little doubt Ronald Acuna belongs at the top.
The 19-year-old has already reached Triple-A and is hitting .311/.365/.516 with 22 doubles, 16 home runs and 35 stolen bases over three minor league levels this season. Simply put, he's a potential franchise cornerstone in their ongoing rebuilding efforts.
Kolby Allard and Mike Soroka remain the team's top pitching prospects, but first-round pick Kyle Wright, offseason pickup Luiz Gohara and 2016 draft picks Ian Anderson and Joey Wentz are pushing their way into that conversation as well.
It will be interesting to see who gets the call to the majors between now and the end of the season as the Braves continue to assess their rising young talent.

Top 10 Prospects
Graduated/Traded: None
           
Farm System Overview
Already the No. 3 farm system when we last updated these rankings following the June draft, the Chicago White Sox continued stockpiling young talent with five July trades.
The headliners from their summer haul were Eloy Jimenez (No. 4), Blake Rutherford (No. 29) and Dylan Cease (No. 38), who all ranked among the top 50 prospects in our most recent top 100 update.
However, they also added Casey Gillaspie, Ryan Cordell, Ian Clarkin, A.J. Puckett and Tito Polo as quality organizational depth capable of making an impact at the next level.
Throw in incumbent guys such as Zack Collins, Carson Fulmer, Spencer Adams, Micker Adolfo and first-round pick Jake Burger, who would easily rank inside the top 10 of most other organizations, and it further illustrates the impressive overall depth of this system.
We're still a few years away from the next contending team on the South Side, but they've quickly built up baseball's best farm system since finally committing to a full-blown rebuild with the Chris Sale trade.
       
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.     

The Boston Red Sox may not have made the biggest splash of the trade deadline, but they were efficient in their dealings over the last month.
The additions of Addison Reed and Eduardo Nunez, as well as the call-up of Rafael Devers, bolstered the roster of the American League East side enough to try to keep up with the free-spending New York Yankees. 
Entering August, the Red Sox are a half game back of their biggest rival in the standings, and in order to prevent a larger gap in the standings, the new additions will have to shine. 
Here's an evaluation of what the Red Sox did over the last month to improve their roster ahead of the postseason.

The Red Sox didn't wait around until the final hours of the trade deadline on Monday, as they got their guy early in the afternoon. 
Boston acquired reliever Addison Reed from the New York Mets in exchange for three prospects. The Red Sox sent pitchers Gerson Bautista, Jamie Callahan and Stephen Nogosek back to the Mets. 
The deal gives the Red Sox another solid arm in the bullpen for the late innings, with Reed expected to take over an eighth-inning role in front of Craig Kimbrel. The 28-year-old comes to Boston with a 1-2 record, 2.57 ERA, 1.12 WHIP and 19 saves in 2017. 
Five days prior to the deadline, the Red Sox brought in Eduardo Nunez from the San Francisco Giants in exchange for a pair of right-handed pitchers. The 30-year-old Nunez was hitting .334 in the Bay Area before being shipped up to Boston. 

Perhaps the biggest move of the last month by the Red Sox was their release of Pablo Sandoval.
The beleaguered third baseman was let go on July 19 after a tumultuous tenure in Boston. Letting go of Sandoval allowed the Red Sox to call up Rafael Devers from Triple-A Pawtucket. 
In his first six games in the big leagues, Devers has 10 hits, two of which are home runs, and four RBI. With Devers and Nunez now in the fold at third base, the Red Sox should have enough firepower to replace Sandoval and make sure he is forgotten sooner rather than later.

The Red Sox exited the trade market early on Monday after acquiring Reed, and it would've been difficult for them to bring in another player given the high demands of selling clubs.
However, one has to ask if the Red Sox did enough compared to the New York Yankees, who drastically improved their roster with a few deals over the last month. 
There isn't a whole lot the Red Sox could've done after the Reed deal. Maybe they could've jumped in for another reliever, but the missed opportunity here is more failing to block what the Yankees did than Boston improving its roster further. 

The main objective of the Reed trade is to give Craig Kimbrel a reliable setup man, and that is what the Red Sox should get out of the 28-year-old pitcher. 
Reed gives the Red Sox a more reliable 1-2 punch in the eighth and ninth innings, and in the chance that Kimbrel needs rest or goes down with an injury, the Red Sox don't have to worry about scrambling for a replacement at closer. 
The moves at third base will do nothing but improve the club. Combining the experienced bat of Nunez and the youthful exuberance of Devers should do nothing but help the Red Sox as they prepare for the postseason. 
Both Nunez and Devers have already found some early success with the Red Sox, as they've combined for 18 hits in 41 at-bats with four home runs and nine RBI. 

Grade: B
The Red Sox did what they needed to do to fill the holes in their team and gear up for the postseason. 
They didn't need an overflow of incoming players like their rivals in the Bronx put together, but they also couldn't sit still at the deadline. 
Whether or not it's enough to compete with the Yankees remains to be seen, but you can't fault the Red Sox for the deals they made so far. 

The New York Yankees made all sorts of splashes in the month of July to improve their ballclub. 
The headline deal of the lot came before Monday's deadline, as the Yankees acquired Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics for three prospects, two of which are currently injured. 
General manager Brian Cashman also made improvements to the roster in the days and weeks before the deadline by making trades with the Chicago White Sox and Minnesota Twins to bring in Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle, David Robertson and Jaime Garcia. 
Many view the trades by the Yankees as a success and as a group of transactions that could take the Yankees to new heights that might not have been expected this season. 
Here's a further evaluation of what the Yankees did before the trade deadline and how it helps them moving forward.

After weeks of speculation, the Yankees finally got their guy on Monday as they acquired Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics. 
The Yankees sent outfielder Dustin Fowler, right-handed pitcher James Kaprielian and shortstop Jorge Mateo back to Oakland. The price for Gray sounded like it was steep for most of Monday, but in the end, the Yankees didn't mortgage their top prospects to get the right-handed starter. 
Not only does Gray immediately improve the starting rotation now, he'll be a feature of the five-man group for a few more years since he's under contract until 2020. 

A week and a half before the deadline-day dramatics with Oakland, the Yankees maneuvered another big-name deal with the Chicago White Sox. 
The Yankees brought in third baseman Todd Frazier and pitchers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle in exchange for pitchers Tyler Clippard and Ian Clarkin as well as outfielders Blake Rutherford and Tito Polo. 
Frazier already has eight hits in 12 games as well as one home run and four RBI since putting on pinstripes.
Kahnle has appeared in seven games since the deal was made. In his time on the mound for the Yankees, he's struck out 11 batters and conceded just four hits and one run. 
Robertson's been a little less efficient in his six appearances on the mound in relief, as he's given up two home runs in six innings. 

Before they secured the services of Gray on Monday, the Yankees bolstered their rotation with the addition of left-handed starter Jaime Garcia from the Minnesota Twins. 
The Yankees also sent a few players out of the Bronx by dealing Rob Refsnyder to the Toronto Blue Jays and right-handed pitcher Yefry Ramirez to the Baltimore Orioles for international-signing-bonus-pool money. 
The chase for starting pitching was forced upon the Yankees once it was discovered Michael Pineda would be out with a ulnar collateral ligament injury. 

The Yankees have already started to benefit from their moves in July, as Kahnle and Robertson have been inserted right into the bullpen. 
The same will happen in the starting rotation with Garcia and Gray once they arrive in the Bronx. Manager Joe Girardi will likely stick with a five-man rotation despite having the arms to potentially use six starters on a regular basis. 
Gray and Garcia will be vital to the success of the club during the postseason, while Frazier should have an impact on the lineup. 
Frazier brings yet another solid weapon to the lineup, as he joined Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Matt Holliday in the heart of the order. When it comes time for the postseason, opposing pitchers won't be able to take an at-bat off against the powerful Yankees lineup. 

Grade: A
There's no other grade you could give the Yankees for their trade-deadline dealings other than an A.
Not only did they improve their team for the postseason quest ahead of them in 2017, but they brought in assets like Gray that will be around for more than one season. 
In addition to filling their needs in the lineup and the rotation, the Yankees didn't let go of some of their top prospects, something that was feared as the A's rumored price tag for Gray was floated out there. 
The Yankees have the upper hand on the Red Sox in the American League East pennant race, and they've put themselves in a position to challenge the Houston Astros for the AL berth in the World Series. 

You didn't hear a sound from the San Francisco Giants Monday afternoon because they did not make an impact move at the non-waiver trade deadline.
Despite having the worst record in baseball and an aging roster in desperate need of an overhaul, the Giants were noticeably silent on the trade market. Their lone move came Wednesday when they sent Eduardo Nunez to the Boston Red Sox for a pair of minor leaguers.
Plenty of other players were available, but a combination of injuries, poor production and unfavorable contracts contributed to the lack of deals. As a result, the Giants are stuck with what they have for the rest of the season unless they're able to make some moves in August using the trade waiver process.
Follow along as we break down what the Giants did, what they weren't able to do and what they could still accomplish before this massively disappointing season comes to an end.
Traded Eduardo Nunez to Boston
Nunez was the Giants' most consistent hitter not named Buster this season, hitting .308 in 76 games with four home runs, 31 RBI and 18 stolen bases (10 more than anyone else on the team). A free agent in the offseason, his $4.2 million contract made him easy to unload, and it helped that teams like the Red Sox desperately needed someone who could play multiple positions.
After starting games at third base (47), left field (17) and shortstop (10) for the Giants, the 30-year-old Nunez has been at second base and as the designated hitter since joining Boston.
Nunez didn't have a penchant for taking a pitch, though, with only 12 walks in 318 plate appearances before the trade. He also wasn't particularly clutch, hitting .250 (17-for-68) in the eighth inning or later.
The Giants got back minor league pitchers Shaun Anderson and Gregory Santos in the deal. Both are right-handers, with Anderson in his first full season of pro ball after getting drafted in the third round by Boston in 2016. Santos, who is only 17, has yet to play outside of the Dominican Republic.

Quite a few Giants' names were floated about in the days and weeks leading up to the deadline, but in almost every case, those players' shortcomings, injuries or contract status were mentioned as much as their good qualities. Still, the fact general manager Bobby Evans didn't make any moves—other than the Nunez trade—was surprising.
Among the hitters the Giants made available were outfielder Denard Span, per ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick, though there wasn't much of a market for a 33-year-old center fielder with dwindling baserunning skills and below-average defense. On Monday, ESPN's Buster Olney reported the Angels had talked about trading for second baseman Joe Panik but those discussions "apparently didn't go anywhere."
Panik becomes arbitration-eligible this winter but is under team control through 2020, making him still valuable to the Giants. The same couldn't be said for the likes of first baseman Brandon Belt, shortstop Brandon Crawford or right fielder Hunter Pence, who entering Monday were hitting a collective .237 with 32 home runs and 142 RBI and whom the Giants owe a combined $50.9 million next season.
On the pitching front, right-hander Jeff Samardzija was the most attractive asset the Giants could have hoped to unload, but a partial no-trade clause made it even harder to get rid of a 32-year-old with a 5-11 record and 4.85 ERA who is owed $59.4 million from 2018 to 2020. Per Andrew Baggarly of the San Jose Mercury News, the team that was rumored to be most interested in him, Houston, was not one of the eight clubs he couldn't veto a trade to.

Since the Giants only made the one move and the players they got for Eduardo Nunez are years away from being in the majors, there's not much here to project in terms of immediate impact. If anything, that trade helps clear the way for the return of a favorite son, Pablo Sandoval, who signed as a free agent on July 22 after getting released by Boston.
Sandoval, known affectionally as Kung Fu Panda during his tenure with the Giants from 2008-14, is playing at Triple-A but figures to get called up any day. Per Henry Schulman of the San Francisco Chronicle, the Giants only have to pay the major league minimum—with the Red Sox covering the rest of this year's salary, as well as $18.6 million for 2018 and 2019—but if he's not on the big league roster at the end of this season, he becomes a free agent.

Monday was officially considered baseball's non-waiver trade deadline, the last chance that teams could swap players without any restrictions. But moves can (and will) still be made prior to August 31, which is when players must be acquired in order to be eligible for the postseason.
That's not a concern of the Giants, but it is for contending teams, many of whom still have needs and will be looking to add before September. To do that, though, will require any players they pick up to first go through revocable waivers.
This means any team in the league can claim one of those players, and if they make a claim, then it's up to the player's current club to either work out a trade, release them or pull them back.
Quite a few players end up getting put on waivers in August, but only a handful of notable names ever get claimed and even fewer get traded. Last season the biggest waiver trades were the Los Angeles Dodgers getting catcher Carlos Ruiz from Philadelphia and Cleveland picking up outfielder Coco Crisp from Oakland.
Most waiver deals are one-sided, with the dealing teams just hoping to unload salary and free roster space. Still, this is an opportunity for the Giants to see who is truly interested in the likes of starters Johnny Cueto and Jeff Samardzija, reliever Hunter Strickland and outfielders Hunter Pence and Denard Span.

On Monday alone there were 15 trades announced (according to MLB.com's transactions list) and involved pretty much every team with a losing record. Either that or they'd been incredibly busy in the days leading up to the deadline such as the Chicago White Sox, who between July 13-30 unloaded seven guys off their big league roster.
And then there was the Giants, whose only move—sending Eduardo Nunez to Boston for two minor-leaguers last week—hardly registered a blip on the radar.
"They didn't move any of their pieces, got nothing new and gave fans pretty much zero reason to look forward to their remaining 55 games,” Ann Killion of the San Francisco Chronicle wrote. "Unless you have a dusty Panda hat in your closet that you’d like to wear one last time."
If not for the ability to still make deals through August, albeit with more limitations because of the waiver process, the Giants would be staring at a failing grade. Instead they're barely passing.
Grade: D
      
Statistics are provided by Baseball Reference and MiLB.com, unless otherwise noted. Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.

In a key series featuring two potential National League playoff teams, the Arizona Diamondbacks (60-45) head to Wrigley Field on Tuesday as road underdogs for the first of three games against the Chicago Cubs (56-48). The defending champion Cubs have gone 13-3 since the All-Star break.
Betting line: The Cubs opened as -177 favorites (wager $177 to win $100), according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark (line updates and matchup report).
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 4.4-3.0, Cubs (MLB picks on every game).
          
Why the Diamondbacks can pay on the MLB lines
Arizona has a better record than Chicago at this point but virtually no chance to catch the Los Angeles Dodgers for the NL West title. However, the Diamondbacks lead the NL Wild Card race by a half-game over the Colorado Rockies, with one of those teams likely battling the Cubs and/or Milwaukee Brewers for a spot.
Arizona will send lefty Patrick Corbin (8-9, 4.36 ERA) to the hill here, and he has pitched well lately despite going 2-3 in his past seven starts. Corbin has allowed two earned runs or less in seven of his last eight outings, dropping his ERA more than a full run since early June.
         
Why the Cubs can pay on the MLB lines
Chicago is finally living up to expectations in seizing a 2.5-game lead over Milwaukee in the NL Central. The Cubs have also won eight of the past 10 meetings with the Diamondbacks, according to the OddsShark MLB Database, going 5-1 at Wrigley during that stretch.
The Cubs will count on southpaw Jon Lester (8-6, 3.88) to help continue their hot streak, and he has pitched outstanding in winning each of his last three outings. Over that period, Lester has given up five runs and 10 hits in 22 innings with just two walks and 20 strikeouts. Four of those five runs came on solo homers.
         
Smart betting pick
It is hard to back Chicago and Lester in this spot on the runline considering two of his last three wins have been decided by exactly one run. Instead, take a shot on the under. The under has cashed in five of the previous six matchups between the teams on the Vegas odds along with all of the past six wins for the Cubs with Lester on the mound.
           
MLB betting trends
Arizona is 4-9 in its last 13 games on the road.
The total has gone under in four of Arizona's last six games on the road.
The total has gone under in four of Chicago's last five games.
      
All MLB lines and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.

Combining an underwhelming season with several veterans playing out expiring contracts, the chips fell perfectly for the New York Mets to sell before Monday's non-waiver trade deadline. An inopportune market and desire to bounce back next season interfered.
While they pawned Lucas Duda and Addison Reed to American League East contenders seeking an extra contributor, the 2015 National League champions made it clear they're not rebuilding, but rather regrouping for 2018.
In addition to exchanging upcoming free agents, they surprisingly added A.J. Ramos from the Miami Marlins. The reliever will likely replace the departed Reed as their closer down the stretch, but he will also stick around as Jeurys Familia's setup man next season.
Mets general manager Sandy Alderson had a eventful deadline, but fans probably anticipated more activity. Jay Bruce, Curtis Granderson, Asdrubal Cabrera and Neil Walker, all upcoming free agents, remain on the roster. Yet it's possible they could clear waivers to facilitate August maneuvers.
Let's break down the moves the Mets did and didn't make before grading their deadline performance.

RHP Merandy Gonzalez and OF Ricardo Cespedes to Miami Marlins for RP A.J. Ramos
Wait, weren't the Mets supposed to sell?
They caught onlookers off guard Friday night by acquiring Ramos, a 30-year-old closer, from their National League East competitors. Alderson otherwise would have needed to address a unit touting baseball's fourth-worst ERA in the offseason.
They parted ways with 21-year-old pitching prospect Merandy Gonzalez and 19-year-old outfielder Ricardo Cespedes, whom MLB.com respectively placed No. 6 and 24 in Miami's updated farm rankings. 
This foreshadowed a Reed trade and diminished the odds of him coming back a la Aroldis Chapman with the New York Yankees last year. Ramos, Jerry Blevins and Familia will instead headline next year's bullpen.
Ramos has registered an underwhelming 3.98 ERA and 1.35 WHIP this season, but he continues to pile up the strikeouts (47 in 40.2 innings) and sports a 2.82 career ERA. Although closers are given preferential treatment in arbitration, the move allows the Mets to avoid overpaying a free agent with a long-term deal. 
Removing one of the top relief targets off the market also enhanced their leveraging power to move Reed.
Grade: B

1B Lucas Duda to Tampa Bay Rays for RHP Drew Smith
For eight years, Lucas Duda never quite received enough recognition.
The first baseman crushed 125 home runs with an .802 OPS during his unheralded tenure with the Mets. Per Baseball-Reference.com, his 121 adjusted OPS (OPS+) ties Carlos Delgado for 10th on the franchise's all-time leaderboard. 
Due to his contract, limited defense and trouble staying healthy, he remained undervalued in a market placing a low emphasis on power. The Tampa Bay Rays rented him for Drew Smith, a 23-year-old reliever now ranked as New York's No. 30 prospect by MLB.com. 
It's a fairly light return for an above-average hitter, but Smith throws hard and wields an intriguing curveball. The Mets weren't getting Brent Honeywell for a two-month power jolt, and Dominic Smith is ready to take over the position next year, if not next week.
Grade: B
RP Addison Reed to Boston Red Sox for RHPs Stephen Nogosek, Jamie Callahan and Gerson Bautista
As expected, the Ramos acquisition prompted a Reed trade. As confirmed on Monday, they shipped their closer to the Boston Red Sox for a trio of right-handed relievers.
Although they didn't land a blue-chip prospect, they bolstered their farm with some intriguing arms. Stephen Nogosek, Jamie Callahan and Gerson Bautista, each 22 years old, respectively ranked No. 18, 23 and 28 in Boston's farm by MLB.com, per Ian Browne.
The Red Sox bolstered their playoff hunt with a high-leverage reliever who posted a 2.09 ERA since joining the Mets in late 2015. The Mets purchased three scratch-off tickets in hopes of one blossoming into a future bullpen replacement.
Mets fan will want more, especially after watching the Yankees turn Chapman into Gleyber Torres, Adam Warren and more last summer. It would have been nice to have instead received one significant position player or starting pitching prospect, but they instead stacked the farm with hard-throwing relievers capable of contributing next season.
Grade: B

The Mets didn't move all of their veterans on expiring contracts. Cabrera, Walker, Granderson and Bruce all stayed put past the non-waiver deadline.
Ideally, they would have cleared the cupboard entirely and handed over their infield to younger talents. Batting .287/.320/.486 with 11 homers in 266 plate appearances, Wilmer Flores deserves regular playing time down the stretch, and first baseman Dominic Smith is ready for his major league debut. Employing and starting Jose Reyes remains unexplainable. 
Despite keeping Cabrera and Reyes, the Mets announced plans to promote top prospect Amed Rosario an hour after the deadline. So they waited to make a move they should have made months ago despite nothing changing.
They also failed to unclog their outfield, which could force Bruce to first to avoid a four-man platoon. Otherwise a slumping Granderson should become the odd-man out, in which case he might as well sit on a contender's bench instead.
Blevins also would have commanded interest as a left-handed specialist, but the Mets had no intentions of downgrading their 2018 roster.
One or more of those veteran position players could clear waivers. Having returned from a hamstring injury on Friday, Walker would particularly entice a buyer if he produces in August. Only nine second basemen accrued more FanGraphs WAR from 2014 to 2016. 
Reyes hit .302 in July, so maybe someone will give Alderson a $20 iTunes gift card. Just kidding. Maybe $10.

All three moves were made with the future bullpen in mind.
Ramos will earn less in arbitration than Reed will demand in free agency, but the erratic acquisition represents a downgrade from their first-half closer. Nevertheless, he's a solid piece for 2018.
Callahan, who has compiled 36 strikeouts in 29 Triple-A innings after dominating Double-A, should compete for a big league job next year. Drew Smith has only pitched 6.2 innings in Double-A and Triple-A, so he will spend most of 2018 proving he belongs in New York's bullpen.
Although Nogosek has the highest ceiling of the four relief prospects acquired, he has issued 21 walks in 53 Single-A frames this year. Bautista is also an unpolished talent, but one who can occasionally hit triple digits.
In Gonzalez, however, the Mets gave up a better prospect than any they received. Cespedes—no relation to Yoenis—is an interesting athlete with a quick bat and powerful arm.
Rather than improving their farm system, the Mets focused on 2018. That will hopefully include a healthier rotation and younger infield featuring Rosario at short and Dominic Smith at first.
Since Michael Conforto and Yoenis Cespedes are both corner outfielders, the Mets need a true center fielder, even if they extend another opportunity to Juan Lagares. According to MLB.com's Anthony DiComo, Alderson said he can envision Conforto handling the more demanding role. That may mean they re-sign Bruce, who has belted 27 home runs.

There's still time for waiver transactions, but the Mets left many pieces on the table before the non-waiver window closed. And they didn't get back a single position player or starting pitcher.
They didn't walk away winners or losers from any of the three deals. All were fine. Yet few sellers stockpile minor league relievers at the deadline, because that's an awfully weird strategy.
After all, prospect-hunting is widely volatile without chasing baseball's most fickle position. Solid middle relievers often vanish after brief success. Valuable contributors often emerge from nowhere. These are lottery tickets with limited payouts. 
Alderson turned two months of Carlos Beltran into Zack Wheeler six years ago, but he faced a far different market this summer. Nobody is coughing up A-list prospects for a rental unless he's solely capable of changing the playoff landscape. Duda and Reed, nice upgrades for the Rays and Red Sox, don't do that.
The Mets would receive a "B" if not for all the missed opportunities. While there's little they can do if nobody expressed interest, even receiving pennies for Cabrera or Granderson would be better than nothing. It's likely the Mets balked to avoid making a perceived bad deal, leaving disposal assets to deteriorate on their roster.
They can improve their grade by completing extra-credit assignments in August, but the Mets currently receive a satisfactory, yet unspectacular appraisal.
Final Grade: B-

Months ago, MLB observers didn't anticipate the Chicago Cubs needing a big deadline boost to keep pace in the National League Central.
The young champions were supposed to get better and realize their dynasty potential. Instead, they entered the All-Star at 43-45, trailing the upstart Milwaukee Brewers by 5.5 games.
Rather than waiting until July 31, they reached a blockbuster agreement with their crosstown rivals during the midseason intermission. Starting the summer's trade activity with a bang, the Cubs sent a package led by their two best prospects (outfielder Eloy Jimenez and starting pitcher Dylan Cease) for the Chicago White Sox for Jose Quintana.
While the southpaw—who has allowed five runs in three starts since the trade—can't take all the credit, the Cubs now hold a 2.5-game lead over the Brewers. Yet that didn't stop them from also adding Alex Avila and Justin Wilson before Monday's non-waiver deadline.
How do the Cubs' repeat hopes look entering August? Here's a breakdown of their deadline activity.

To Cubs: SP Jose Quintana
To Chicago White Sox: OF Eloy Jimenez, RHP Dylan Cease, 1B Matt Rose and 2B Bryant Flete
Pitching isn't cheap.
Quintana isn't properly respected as an ace among casual fans, and he wielded a 4.49 with the White Sox in 16 first-half starts. The Cubs nevertheless paid full price for a 28-year-old stud with a 3.49 career ERA and the sixth-best WAR among all starting pitchers since 2013. 
"It's definitely an injection," Maddon said after the Quintana trade, per ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers. "There's definitely energy involved. It's more believable with him around here right now. It's wonderful to know if you need something you're able to get it. It's not just plugging holes, it's about reinforcing the whole thing."
An incredibly team-friendly contract cemented his status as a valuable trade commodity. The Cubs accordingly paid a steep price to fortify their current and future rotation. Jimenez and Cease, respectively, rank No. 7 and 67 on MLB.com's updated prospect rankings. 
Jimenez can fill the Cubbies with regret by reaching his sky-high power ceiling, but Quintana offers front-line rotation help through 2020. Pairing him with a killer young position-player core should keep them afloat as a perennial title contender. 
Grade: A

To Cubs: C Alex Avila and RP Justin Wilson
To Detroit Tigers: 1B/3B Jeimer Candelario, SS Isaac Paredes and cash or player to be named later
The Cubs still had two smaller needs to address after acquiring Quintana. Miguel Montero's release created a catching opening behind Willson Contreras, and the bullpen lacked a standout southpaw.
They solved both minor issues by attaining Alex Avila and Justin Wilson from the Detroit Tigers, as they officially announced on Monday morning. 
A veteran reserve such as A.J. Ellis or Rene Rivera would have plugged the hole, but Avila adds an impact bat to their bench. Despite hitting .158 with no extra-base hits during a sharp July swoon, the 30-year-old left Detroit with an .869 OPS.
Wilson was the deal's true prize anyway. He has registered a 2.68 ERA, 0.94 WHIP and 55 strikeouts in 40.1 innings. Although tough on lefties, he's even better against opposing righties, who have hit .131 against him this season.
He also has one more year of arbitration remaining, meaning the Cubs have two chances to swing for a championship with Quintana and Wilson complementing a potent lineup.
Once again, they paid a high price by relinquishing corner infielder Jeimer Candelario, their top prospect remaining after dealing Jimenez and Cease. MLB.com ranked him No. 92 in their overall top 100, which no longer features any Cubs. 
Yet Anthony Rizzo and Kris Bryant made him expendable. He and shortstop Isaac Paredes will provide much more value to an aging Tigers organization which needed young hitters, so this trade initially looks like a win-win for both sides.
Grade: A

As contenders scrambled to complete transactions on Monday afternoon, the Cubs gave Steve Bartman a World Series ring.
MLB.com's Carrie Muskat displayed the shiny jewelry on Twitter hours before other contenders made last-second additions. Having completed all of their assignments, the Cubs sat back and watched the madness unfold.
They solved each need with one of the best available options. With hours left to freely negotiate, they had nothing left to discuss.
Although the champions remained linked to starters after nabbing Quintana, John Lackey halted that chatter by authoring a 3.27 ERA in four July starts. The lineup has no true weak link, as their worst offensive contributors (Addison Russell and Jason Heyward) provide elite defense.
To find their missed opportunity, one must travel back to last summer, when they balked at sending Kyle Schwarber to the New York Yankees for Andrew Miller. In hindsight, they would have benefited from holstering the elite southpaw through 2018 instead of dealing Gleyber Torres for Aroldis Chapman.
They then could have kept Candelario around as insurance or exchanged him for a starting pitcher this winter. Then again, they then might not have traded Jorge Soler—who has floundered this season—to the Kansas City Royals for closer Wade Davis.
The 24-year-old Schwarber isn't a bust just because of his .187 batting average, but he's more likely to be the next Mike Napoli than Mike Piazza. Chapman led them to an elusive title, so Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein shouldn't lose any sleep over his decisions.

Starting pitcher? Check? Backup catcher? Got it. Left-handed reliever? Done. 
After restocking their roster, the Cubs are ready to defend their crown. 
Slowly gaining control of the NL Central, these reinforcements should elevate them to another division crown. Quintana has enjoyed the National League so far, submitting a 2.37 ERA and 25 strikeouts in three starts since the mid-July blockbuster.
If they prevail, they're on a National League Division Series collision course with the Washington Nationals. The red-hot Los Angeles Dodgers could await in the next round, meaning they would combat left-handed superstars Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy, Corey Seager and Cody Bellinger.
Quintana and Wilson will certainly help. The Nats and Dodgers aren't likely to go away next year, and neither will Chicago's two new southpaws. Their contract status is especially important since Jake Arrieta and Wade Davis will enter free agency this offseason.
Although the Dodgers bolstered their status as NL favorites by acquiring Yu Darvish, the Cubs at least hold a respectable claim to the throne. Middling first half aside, they're not abdicating the title scene anytime soon.

The Cubs spared no expense to strengthen their roster. As a result, they once again resemble one of baseball's premier squads.
Epstein and Co. also ransacked a farm system once littered with talent. After flipping Jimenez, Candelario and Paredes, they're putting all their faith in their current core staying healthy and productive for the long haul.
That's not a bad gambit. Ben Zobrist, Jon Jay and now Avila are their only big league position players older than 27, so the Cubs are banking on not needing any offensive reinforcements for multiple years.
Chicago would earn an A+ if not for losing Jimenez in the process. The 20-year-old flaunts a superstar ceiling, leading MLB.com's scouting report to compare his upside to Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton. 
But no ace was available for free. The Cubs will have no regrets if they hoist another banner.
Final Grade: A

The Los Angeles Dodgers are 43 games above .500, lead their division by 14 games and are a virtual lock to make the playoffs for the fifth straight season. If ever there was a team that could afford to stand pat at the trade deadline, it was them.
But what fun would that be?
Rather than go with what has gotten them this far, the Dodgers went all-out on Monday by adding three pitchers, including one of the best starters in the game in Texas Rangers righty Yu Darvish. In doing so, they made it clear that nothing short of making their first World Series since 1988—and winning it all for the first time in 29 years—will be acceptable.
"They are going for it," MLB Network's Jon Morosi tweeted Monday.
With the trade deadline now in the rearview mirror, let's break down what the Dodgers did (and didn't do) and what it means for the rest of the regular season and into the playoffs.

Acquired RHP Yu Darvish from Texas
A prime target for the Dodgers ever since ace Clayton Kershaw was placed on the disabled list with a lower back injury, Darvish looked like he wasn't going anywhere when he tweeted a selfie captioned "10min!!" just before the deadline. Little did he know his now-former team, the Texas Rangers, were about to deal him at the last minute.
Darvish was sent from Texas in exchange for a trio of minor league prospects: RHP A.J. Alexy, 2B/OF Willie Calhoun and SS Brendon Davis. Calhoun was the biggest name of that group, a 22-year-old slugger who was hitting .298 with 23 home runs and 67 RBI for Triple-A Oklahoma City.
Parting with Calhoun was significant but not as much as if the Dodgers had unloaded their top hitting prospect, OF Alex Verdugo. The former second-round pick from 2014 was batting .326 at Triple-A entering Monday.
The 30-year-old Darvish comes to the Dodgers on the heels of one of the worst starts of his career, allowing 10 runs in 3.2 innings against Miami Wednesday. Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan reported the Marlins "knew what was coming" that night because of the way Darvish held his hands.
Though only 6-9 this season with a 4.01 ERA, Darvish still has great stuff. He has 148 strikeouts in 137 innings, with that 9.7 strikeouts per nine innings being the lowest of his six-year career.

The last-second Yu Darvish deal made the biggest headlines, but even before that the Dodgers had been fairly active on the trade market. Over the final 10 days of July they made three trades, all involving relief pitchers, with two coming on Monday:
       
Acquired LHP Tony Watson from Pittsburgh
Watson, 32, was 5-3 with a 3.66 ERA in 47 appearances for the Pirates, the team he'd played for since making his MLB debut in 2011. He saved 10 games but also blew seven leads, getting moved from closer to a setup role in mid-June.
To get Watson, the Dodgers traded two minor leaguers, IF Oneil Cruz and RHP Angel German. Cruz is listed by MLB.com as the Pirates' No. 16 prospect.
       
Acquired LHP Tony Cingrani from Cincinnati
The 28-year-old Cingrani appeared in 25 games this season for the Reds, with no decisions or saves along with a 5.40 ERA in 23.1 innings of work. He missed seven weeks with an oblique injury before returning to action in early June.
The Dodgers sent 1B/OF Scott Van Slyke and minor league catcher Hendrik Clementina to Cincinnati to complete the deal. Van Slyke hit .122 with two home runs and three RBI in 29 games with the Dodgers this season but had playing in Triple-A since early July after being sent down for the third time in 2017.
       
Traded RHP Sergio Romo to Tampa Bay
Romo was dealt to the Rays on July 22 for a player to be named later or cash, ending his short stint with the Dodgers after they signed the former San Francisco Giants closer to a one-year deal in February. The 34-year-old struggled to find his old form this season, going 1-1 with a 6.12 ERA in 25 innings before getting designated for assignment on July 20.

The Dodgers solidified an already strong pitching staff but they failed to make any upgrades to their hitting. The starting lineup isn't lacking, but the bench is, as evidenced by having to turn to a player making his major league debut—Kyle Farmer—as a pinch hitter in the 11th inning on Sunday.
(Never mind the fact Farmer hit a two-run double, giving the Dodgers a 3-2 win over rival San Francisco for their ninth walk-off victory of the season).
The Dodgers bench is hitting .231 in 2017 and their pinch-hitters are batting .257 with a .747 OPS, lower than every position group on the team. Don't be surprised if they seek out a veteran hitter in August via a waiver deal.

The addition of Yu Darvish, first and foremost, limits the impact of the Dodgers' rash of starting pitcher injuries. The only starter they've used this season who has not spent time on the disabled list is Brock Stewart, who was in the bullpen until getting the nod last Wednesday against Minnesota after both Clayton Kershaw and Brandon McCarthy were put on the DL.
Assuming Kershaw is able to come back at full strength from a lower back strain, it sets up the Dodgers incredibly well for the playoffs, with Kershaw followed by Darvish and then any combination of Rich Hill, Kenta Maeda, Hyun-Jin Ryu or Alex Wood as the third and fourth starter. And with the additions to the bullpen, the Dodgers won't need their starters to overextend themselves down the stretch and could go to a six-man rotation if so desired.
Speaking of the bullpen, Tony Cingrani and Tony Watson give the Dodgers three lefty relievers (along with Luis Avilan) and better enable them to match up against potential left-handed hitters in the postseason like Washington's Bryce Harper, Arizona's Jake Lamb or the Chicago Cubs' Anthony Rizzo and Kyle Schwarber.
Neither Cingrani or Watson were particularly lights-out against lefties this season, however, with respective .293 and .308 batting averages against them in those situations. But they also didn't have the luxury of having a shutdown closer like Kenley Jansen working behind them, and that could make a world of difference to their mindsets when coming in for one or two batters.

Considering how good the Dodgers have been this season and how strong their roster already was, any additions at the trade deadline figured to only make for minimal improvement. And then Yu Darvish was acquired, leading Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports to tweet: "dodgers improved their team dramatically, if that's even possible."
Darvish is the kind of front-line starter who can make a major difference in the postseason, combining with Clayton Kershaw for a tremendous one-two punch. And while neither Tony Cingrani or Tony Watson are household names, they fill a big need for the Dodgers bullpen as potential lefty specialists.
The only thing that could have made the Dodgers' deadline performance better would have been to add another bat to the bench, but that's still something that can happen in August. All in all, the team with the best record in baseball did more than enough to keep themselves at the top for the foreseeable future while also vastly improving their postseason prospects.
Grade: A
        
Statistics are provided by Baseball Reference and MiLB.com, unless otherwise noted. Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.

After a trying first half of the season, Carlos Gonzalez just wanted to relax with his family during the All-Star break in July. But as he sat around the pool at his house in Florida, the topic no Venezuelan can avoid kept coming up.
"Venezuelans, we only talk about politics now," the Colorado Rockies right fielder said a week or so later. "There doesn't go one day that we don't say anything about a political issue. That's it. If you see someone from Venezuela, it's the first thing that comes up."
The conversations aren't easy, because what has gone on in their homeland this year hasn't been easy. The marches and battles in the streets are a constant in their lives, no matter their views on the underlying issues and even though they have the safety of distance.
There's a physical distance, because they're here and the troubles are there. But mentally and emotionally, the troubles are never far away.
"It's really tough," Gonzalez said.
Gonzalez, who regularly visited Venezuela in past offseasons, said he won't be making the trip this winter.
"I love going there every offseason, but I always tell my wife that I would never take a chance," he said. "The way my family describes how the streets are, [it's like] they're living in a war. I won't go there."
For him and for so many other Venezuelans, it just adds to the sadness.
They can't go home.
There are 98 Venezuela-born players who have played in the major leagues this season, according to research through Baseball-Reference.com, and many more in the minor leagues. Some, like Gonzalez, have avoided publicly taking sides—"The country is completely apart, divided in two, and at the end of the day, we're baseball players," Gonzalez said. Others have come out against the government of President Nicolas Maduro.
A photo posted by Francisco Cervelli (@fran_cervelli)
Pittsburgh Pirates catcher Francisco Cervelli took to the Players' Tribune in May to write a heartfelt plea for the troubles to end, and he's been openly critical of Maduro's government. Cervelli and Milwaukee Brewers outfielder-infielder Hernan Perez organized other Venezuelan players in a "Basta Ya" video that appeared on Cervelli's Instagram page.
Detroit Tigers first baseman Miguel Cabrera also posted on Instagram, begging the government not to hurt his family and saying he was told by pro-government people he would be killed if he returned to the country.
"What do you want me to do to help in Venezuela?" Cabrera asked in a video, according to a translation by the Detroit Free Press. "You want me to send guns? Because I have already helped Venezuela a lot; I have sent medicine, I have sent food, I have sent this and that."
Cabrera also said he's tired of hearing his mother will be kidnapped. In 2011, Tampa Bay Rays catcher Wilson Ramos was kidnapped in Venezuela. He was seized at gunpoint in Valencia and rescued by police commandos two days later.
No active major leaguer has openly taken the government's side in the disputes, though ex-major leaguer Magglio Ordonez is a mayor who represents Maduro's United Socialist Party. Carlos Guillen, another ex-major leaguer, works under Maduro's vice president, Tareck El Aissami, as president of a state sports ministry.
There are more Venezuelan players in the major leagues than ever before. The commissioner's office reported that 76 Venezuelans made Opening Day rosters in 2017, the most in history. The numbers grew dramatically while the country was under the control of President Hugo Chavez, Maduro's predecessor and mentor.
Chavez had played baseball as a youth, and Melissa Segura wrote in a 2013 story in Sports Illustrated that "the former player-turned-politician's social policies unintentionally spurred an era of unprecedented baseball success for his homeland."
In Segura's view, the government policies led formerly middle-class families to struggle economically and see baseball as a way out for their children.
Venezuela continues to develop players today, but the conditions in the country have gotten so bad that major league teams tell their scouts not to travel there. Two weeks ago, many scouts were in nearby Aruba, where some of the top young players from Venezuela had traveled for a showcase event.
Meanwhile, the conditions in Venezuela seem to grow worse and worse. The New York Times reported last Sunday that in three months of daily street protests, over 90 people have been killed and 3,000 arrested.
The country's major league players can try to help in various ways, but their biggest assist may be in using their celebrity to help bring attention to the suffering.
Cervelli, for one, is doing just that.
This should be the best time in Cervelli's life. After seven seasons with the New York Yankees in which he never played more than a backup role, he was traded to the Pirates and found a home. In May 2016, at age 30, he signed the first multiyear contract of his career, for three years and $31 million.
But as Cervelli stood before a small group of reporters two months ago at Citi Field, he looked anything but content. His face showed pain as he spoke emotionally and eloquently about what he has done and how powerless he still felt.
"The reality is I don't have a million followers on social media," he said. "What I'm trying to do is start something."
A photo posted by Francisco Cervelli (@fran_cervelli)
His parents have left Venezuela. He understands he has to stay away, too.
"The reality is I cannot go there," Cervelli said. "I haven't been there in a year-and-a-half. I'm scared to go."
His extended family remains there, however, and he realizes that speaking out could put them in danger.
"I know what can happen, but I think it would be worse if this government stays," Cervelli said.
He said the Pirates have been understanding and that the organization has even helped send supplies to Venezuelans in need.
"They've been good," he said. "They know I'm not a politician. I'm just a human being born and raised in Venezuela."
For Cervelli and for so many of his countrymen who play in the major leagues, that's really what this is about. Yes, it's political, because it's impossible to discuss the protests without getting political. More than that, though, it's about trying to help their fellow citizens, who deal every day with ugly realities.
"We just want people to speak for themselves," San Diego Padres starting pitcher Jhoulys Chacin told the San Diego Union-Tribune. "We don't want anybody to tell us what to do, and we just want to be free. We want more safety for our friends and families."
A photo posted by Jhoulys Chacin (@jhoulys45)
Chacin joined with other Padres and Texas Rangers players from Venezuela in an Instagram video similar to the one Cervelli did with the Brewers' Perez and 11 other Venezuelans from around the major leagues.
Cervelli said he came up with the idea in early May, during a conversation with Perez. He said they wanted to go beyond simply offering their moral support to the protesters.
"It's not only saying, 'I'm supporting you,'" Cervelli said. "It's screaming loud and asking for help. Every day I wake up and I feel worse.
"You see how the world is so quiet about this stuff. We have to make a change. [The socialist government] has been there 18 years, my friend, talking about how bad it was before. They made everything worse. It's time for them to go.
"My country is misery."
Gonzalez's family continues to travel back and forth between Venezuela and the United States.
"They love our country," he said. "It's not easy to just take off, because you have so many other family members there. You can never disconnect. You can never say, 'I don't care what's happening over there.' I do care. That's the place that I love, and it's always a concern for each one of us."
It's a concern that goes far beyond baseball, but there's no way to get around the sport's place in Venezuelan society. The game has been part of the culture for more than 100 years, and Venezuelan players began arriving in the major leagues in 1939, when Alex Carrasquel played for the Washington Senators.
Nearly 400 players have followed Carrasquel over the years, according to Baseball-Reference.com, and in 1984 Luis Aparicio became the first (and as of now only) Venezuelan in the Hall of Fame. But the current crisis has touched Aparicio, too.
With the All-Star Game in Miami this year, MLB invited all Hall of Famers of Latin American descent to take part in a pregame ceremony. Aparicio declined, leaving his explanation on Twitter, as Marly Rivera of ESPN translated:
I love Aparicio: "Thanks MLB for the honor at the ASG, but I can't celebrate when young people in my country are dying fighting for freedom" https://t.co/ok8pQJL3cN
The fighting continues, and no Venezuelan can easily escape it. Dozens of them in the major leagues play on, knowing that for now, they can't go home.
Their country is misery.
    
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.

The MLB trade deadline always features two distinct storylines. 
The first and most immediate is the buyers' story. Which stars changed hands, and how will they impact the various postseason races?
The second story, however, is weightier and more intriguing going forward: Which of the traded top prospects will blossom into MLB studs?
Hindsight is the only true arbiter. But based on our own analysis, MLB.com's prospect rankings and a sprinkling of gut instinct, here are five blue chips who swapped uniforms ahead of the July 31 non-waiver deadline and appear ticketed for big league stardom.

MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 69
Traded From: Los Angeles Dodgers to Texas Rangers
The Los Angeles Dodgers rented ace right-hander Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers and didn't give up any of their top three prospects. Put another way: The National League's best team got better without gutting its farm system. Kudos to them.
They did surrender an intriguing prospect in second baseman Willie Calhoun, though. The 22-year-old has flashed eye-opening power during his rise through the Dodgers' system, crushing 27 home runs in 132 games at Double-A in 2016 and 23 in 99 games at Triple-A this season.
Granted, his .931 slugging percentage might have been inflated by the offense-friendly Pacific Coast League. And, sure, the 45 errors he's committed in three minor league campaigns call his defense into question.
However, middle infielders with 20-plus home run potential don't grow on trees. Plus, assuming Calhoun stays with the Rangers and arrives in The Show, he will ply his trade at the fifth-most hitter-happy yard in baseball, per ESPN's Park Factors statistic. 

MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 77
Traded From: New York Yankees to Oakland Athletics 
Dustin Fowler was having a stellar season at Triple-A, hitting .293 with 13 home runs in 70 games when the New York Yankees called him up.
In his first audition with the Yanks, Fowler blew out his knee on defense and never took a big league at-bat.
Now, the 22-year-old is in the Oakland Athletics system after being featured in the trade that sent right-hander Sonny Gray from the East Bay to the Bronx.
Fowler is still rehabbing his knee, but assuming he recovers, he's got the tools and makeup to shine for a small-market A's club that loves to promote and showcase young talent.
"Things happen for a reason," Fowler said, per Randy Miller of NJ Advance Media. "There's a reason for me to go to Oakland right now. So I've got to do everything I can to help them out."
MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 45
Traded From: New York Yankees to Chicago White Sox
The Yankees jettisoned a number of intriguing prospects via trade. In addition to Fowler, general manager Brian Cashman cashed in resurgent infielder/outfielder Jorge Mateo and injured-yet-intriguing right-hander James Kaprielian, among others, in his quest to upgrade the bullpen, offense and rotation.
Another prospect, however, rises to the top: outfielder Blake Rutherford.
Acquired by the Chicago White Sox in the trade that sent infielder Todd Frazier and right-handed relievers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle to the Bronx, Rutherford hit .351 with a .986 OPS in rookie ball last season.
The 18th overall pick in 2016, the 20-year-old "has big raw power and will tap into it once he adds some loft to his swing," per MLB.com's scouting report.
He's yet another chip in a suddenly loaded White Sox system, and not the last one you'll meet on this list.
MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 67
Traded From: Chicago Cubs to Chicago White Sox
Hey, look, another White Sox acquisition.
This one is 21-year-old right-hander Dylan Cease, who has averaged 12.2 strikeouts per nine innings with a 2.67 ERA across 135 minor league innings after recovering from post-high school Tommy John surgery.
Cease was shipped from the Cubs to the Sox in the Jose Quintana trade, and in the process he lost his chance to ascend the ranks of the defending champions.
To hear Cease tell it, he's OK with that.
"What the Cubs are doing is great, but I obviously didn't have anything to do with that," the 2014 sixth-round pick told reporters, per Colleen Kane of the Chicago Tribune. "It's exciting to be in a system like this one where there are so many talented guys and the potential to do something great is there."

MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 7
Traded From: Chicago Cubs to Chicago White Sox
Cease wasn't all the Cubbies surrendered in the Quintana trade. They also sent outfielder Eloy Jimenez to the South Side.
Jimenez raked in spring training before a shoulder injury sidelined his season. The 20-year-old Dominican eventually recovered and landed in High-A Myrtle Beach, where he hit well.
In nine games with the White Sox's High-A affiliate entering play Monday, he had tallied five doubles, two home runs and 10 RBI along with a .452 average.
"Eloy is one of the most talented players I've ever seen, especially the fact he's only 20," Cease told reporters of his trademate, per Kane. "I expect he's going to do really big things."
The same could be said for Cease, and all of the other names featured here.
               
All statistics current as of Monday and courtesy of Baseball-Reference.

In what some saw as a veiled shot at his manager, Mike Matheny, St. Louis Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina posted a photo on Instagram in which he commented on how much he missed former third base coach Jose Oquendo.
A photo posted by Yadier Molina (@yadier_marciano_molina)
In December, the Cardinals named Oquendo a special assistant to general manager John Mozeliak after health issues forced Oquendo to step away from coaching duties temporarily.  
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch's Jose de Jesus Ortiz wrote in June that he felt the effects of Oquendo's departure have lingered long into the 2017 season: "Oquendo's departure left a huge void, and it was evident in poor defensive play and a lack of accountability. The players didn't get too comfortable with Oquendo on the coaching staff because he kept everybody accountable."
Later in the same article, Ortiz didn't name any specific coaches or players but spoke to a source who said Oquendo was unlikely to return in a coaching role because "he kept some folks in the Cardinals’ clubhouse on edge and didn't mind mixing it up behind closed doors if something needed to be said."
The Post-Dispatch's Derrick Goold denied there was a rift between Matheny and Oquendo when Oquendo was on the staff. Goold went on to say that Matheny attempted to find a way to keep Oquendo in his role as a coach after knee surgery but the 54-year-old was content in a front-office role.
While Molina's Instagram post can be left to interpretation, he has used the social media platform to air his grievances with Matheny before. The eight-time All-Star highlighted a selection from a Post-Dispatch article by Mitchell Forde in which his manager questioned whether he was running out of gas, per the Washington Post's Marissa Payne.
Matheny has always had his critics despite the Cardinals' success, with the handling of St. Louis' bullpen one of the biggest bones of contention. 
The Cardinals are 52-53 and in serious danger of missing the playoffs for the second year in a row. Should that happen, Matheny's job could be in jeopardy once the season is over.

The Baltimore Orioles announced Monday that designated hitter Mark Trumbo was placed on the 10-day disabled list with a rib cage strain.
As Brittany Ghiroli of MLB.com reported, the 31-year-old tweaked his back in the weight room before being scratched from the lineup. The roster move is retroactive to Sunday.
The slugger has been a steady force in the lineup until the latest injury, appearing in 103 games this season of the team's 105 games. He has appeared in at least 140 contests in every full season of his major league career. 
Now a year removed from a season that saw him hit a major league-high 47 home runs, the slugger is slashing .238/.300/.405 with 17 dingers and 50 RBI. 
If Trumbo is out for an extended stretch, the Orioles could pivot to Trey Mancini or Joey Rickard as their primary DH with Craig Gentry also likely to get extra playing time.

Boston Red Sox general manager Dave Dombrowski thinks highly of the New York Yankees after the team's work during the trade deadline.
New York announced Monday the acquisition of Sonny Gray from the Oakland Athletics, adding a front-line starter to a team that already led the American League East. When asked about the deal, Dombrowski compared the Yankees to the NBA champions, per Scott Lauber of ESPN.com:
"You mean the Golden State Warriors? Yeah, I think the Golden State Warriors have significantly made some moves. I expected it. I would've been surprised if they didn't. But I think Brian probably has made them the Golden State Warriors and we're the significant underdogs, when I'm listening to the MLB Network. I would anticipate, like he said earlier in the year that he didn't know how the Red Sox would lose a game, I think it'll be the same. I don't know how they'll lose a game right now. They made some good moves. They made their club significantly better."
This is a reversal from December when Yankees general manager Brian Cashman called the Red Sox the "Golden State Warriors of baseball," per Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com.
The Yankees also added Jaime Garcia, Todd Frazier, David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle in what was a busy month for the front office. This adds to a talented young roster led by Aaron Judge and others that has produced a 57-47 record this season with a plus-119 run differential.
After playing just one postseason game in the last four seasons, the squad seems destined to return to the playoffs in 2017 and possibly make a deep run. If the Red Sox GM is to be believed, the team should be favorites to bring home a championship like the Warriors did earlier this summer.
Of course, Boston sits just one-half game behind the Yankees through Monday's action with a 58-49 record. The Houston Astros are also 10 games better in the AL standings, while the Los Angeles Dodgers are beating everyone with a 74-31 record, good for an incredible .705 win percentage.
While the Yankees and Red Sox have once again ignited one of the top rivalries in sports, it appears the real Warriors of baseball are in the NL West this season.

The Chicago White Sox saw two key players go down with injuries Monday when Yoan Moncada and Willy Garcia got into a collision in the outfield.
The team's Twitter account noted both players were forced to leave the game. According to Bob Nightengale of USA Today, X-rays on Moncada were negative and he is considered day-to-day with a knee contusion.
Moncada, who was playing just his 12th game with the White Sox, kneed Garcia in the head while trying to grab a pop fly and was eventually carted off the field with a leg injury.
MLB.com captured the play in question:
Moncada is considered the No. 1 prospect in baseball by MLB.com thanks to his ability to contribute as a hitter, fielder and baserunner. Unfortunately, he has struggled offensively since reaching the majors.
After an 0-for-2 start to Monday's game against the Toronto Blue Jays, the second baseman is batting just .105 with one home run for the White Sox. Still, the team and its fans will hope the projected future star will return to the field before too long.
Garcia, another rookie for Chicago, was hitting .258 with two home runs before his injury. Per Nightengale, he will undergo the concussion protocol before being able to return.

Washington Nationals starting pitcher Gio Gonzalez lost a no-hitter in the ninth inning of Monday's game against the Miami Marlins.
Gonzalez allowed a single to Dee Gordon to open the final frame. The Nationals' Twitter account summed up the reaction of the team's fans:
https://t.co/37JpYMv8rQ
With Washington holding a 1-0 lead, manager Dusty Baker then replaced Gonzalez with Sean Doolittle, who closed the game. Gonzalez finished with five strikeouts and three walks in his eight innings.
The left-hander is a native of Hialeah, Florida, which is about a 20-minute drive from Marlins Park in Miami. He was also friends with Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez, who died in a boating accident in September. Fernandez would've celebrated his 25th birthday Monday.
The Washington Post's Chelsea Janes thought that all added to the weight of Gonzalez's performance:
Tweet from afar: Whatever happens, for Gio to do this, on Fernandez's birthday, in Miami...sometimes you just have to wonder.
Two Nationals pitchers have thrown no-hitters since the franchise moved to the nation's capital.
Jordan Zimmermann no-hit the Marlins in a 1-0 win Sept. 28, 2014, and Max Scherzer threw two no-hitters during the 2015 season.

If there was any doubt about the Los Angeles Dodgers' resolve to win their first World Series since 1988, let July 31, 2017, be marked as the date it disappeared.
The Dodgers warmed up on trade deadline day by grabbing two left-handers for their bullpen: Tony Watson from the Pittsburgh Pirates and Tony Cingrani from the Cincinnati Reds. And then, as the buzzer sounded at 4 p.m. ET, came the coup de grâce: a trade for Texas Rangers ace right-hander Yu Darvish.
Or, put another way: The best team in Major League Baseball added the best pitcher on the trade market.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports was first to report the deal. Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports was first with the terms. Then the Dodgers made it official:
Today, the #Dodgers acquired Yu Darvish from the Rangers in exchange for minor leaguers Willie Calhoun, Brandon Davis and AJ Alexy.
That's not a small haul going to Texas.
Willie Calhoun, a second baseman, checked in as the Dodgers' No. 4 prospect at MLB.com. A.J. Alexy, a right-hander, and Brendon Davis, an infielder, checked in at No. 17 and No. 27, respectively.
However, some words of wisdom offered by Chicago Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein at last year's deadline seem relevant right now.
"If not now, when?"

The Dodgers have been efforting for a World Series title since Magic Johnson and a group of deep-pocketed investors took over in 2012. The process has been largely successful, producing four NL West titles since 2013. Yet also disappointing, as the World Series has remained elusive.
But even before Monday's events, those four teams already looked like little league squads next to the 2017 Dodgers.
It says a lot that they're an MLB-best 74-31 and on pace for 114 wins. What says even more is that they're 65-20 since a 9-11 start. That's a .765 winning percentage, or a 124-win pace over a full season.
And now they have Darvish.
A guy with a 4.01 ERA through 22 starts might only seem like good-not-great upgrade. But Darvish's ERA is skewed by his most recent outing, in which he got lit up for 10 runs by the Miami Marlins.
That would be a red flag if the 30-year-old was showing signs of injury. But as Passan heard, the real explanation is much more benign:
Sources: Yu Darvish was tipping his pitches in his last start. Goes a long way to explaining why he allowed 10 runs, the most in his career.
Before that outing, Darvish was rocking a 3.44 ERA and striking out 9.7 per nine innings while walking only 2.9 per nine innings. Typical stuff for a guy with a 3.42 ERA since 2012. 
That comes out to a 125 adjusted ERA+, which ties Madison Bumgarner for ninth among pitchers who've made over 100 starts since 2012. 
“Every team in baseball would want Yu Darvish. That’s easy," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said last week, per Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times.
Of course, Darvish probably wouldn't be a Dodger if not for the injury to Clayton Kershaw.
The three-time Cy Young Award winner and current MLB ERA leader exited his July 23 start early with a bad back and is now on the disabled list. For the time being, Darvish will effectively be filling his shoes.

Yet the Dodgers rotation was hardly helpless outside of Kershaw.
Alex Wood has pitched like an ace. Rich Hill has recently joined the club. Brandon McCarthy, Kenta Maeda and Hyun-Jin Ryu have been solid. And all told, Dodgers starters lead baseball in ERA (3.25) and in FanGraphs WAR (13.0).
The Dodgers certainly have enough starting pitching to hold on to their 14-game lead in the NL West. And if Kershaw returns in September as expected, the Dodgers rotation will be reforged into a weapon perfectly capable of cutting through October.
The rest of the team is not too shabby either.
Led by Justin Turner, Corey Seager and super-rookie Cody Bellinger, the Dodgers are the only National League team with nine players who've taken more than 150 plate appearances and qualify as above-average hitters with an OPS+ over 100.
Dodgers hitters can also pick it. Per Baseball Prospectus, they're tied with the Cubs for first in the NL in defensive efficiency.
Last but not least is a bullpen that, like the starting rotation, was already excellent. Dodgers relievers rank second in ERA (2.83) and FanGraphs WAR (5.7). In Watson and Cingrani, Roberts now has a couple of hard-throwing lefties to put to work in front of Kenley Jansen.
So how good are the Dodgers' odds of winning the World Series?
According to Baseball Prospectus, way ahead of any other team's odds:
And the scary part: These odds haven't yet been updated to account for Monday's trade activity.
The obligatory word of warning is that this guarantees nothing.
The Dodgers are a runaway train now, but eventually they'll come to a landscape where all bets are off. Extreme unpredictability has long been a defining characteristic of the MLB postseason. The 2017 Dodgers wouldn't be the first superteam to be felled by it.
However, it was just last year that a superteam was the last squad left standing. It wasn't always easy, but in the end the 2016 Cubs were simply better than everyone.
These Dodgers are much like those Cubs. They're built to win every phase of the game and generally leave only microscopic nits to pick. 
At least among the National League competition standing between the Dodgers and the World Series, it's hard to say the same.
The Cubs have begun to resemble the team they were last year, but they may not be free of the inconsistent hitting and pitching that have dogged them for much of the year. The Washington Nationals have a great lineup and rotation but have made only half-measure fixes to one of baseball's worst bullpens.
It was impossible to have this much confidence in recent Dodgers teams. They were always good but always flawed, with a typical problem being an over-reliance on their stars.
This year's Dodgers haven't had that problem, and indeed have had few problems in general.
And on Monday, they set themselves up to remain problem-free all the way to the World Series.
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Prospectus.


As Monday dawned and the 4 p.m. ET July 31 non-waiver deadline loomed, the 2017 MLB trade season was shaping up to be among the dullest in recent memory.
Yes, a few seismic deals had gone down. For the most part, however, the glut of teams on the postseason bubble seemed to be throwing off the buying and selling balance.
July 31 didn't change everything, but it did feature trades for a pair of aces that at least injected some last-minute intrigue. One of them possibly shifted the balance of power in the AL East.
Let's examine all of the biggest trades up to and including Monday's action and assign grades for the clubs involved.
No trade can be judged fully without the benefit of hindsight, but we can look at the MLB and MiLB pieces involved and assess who, if anyone, got the longer end of the stick based on stats, track record and a dollop of gut feeling.

In the first major trade of 2017, the Chicago Cubs shored up their wobbly starting rotation by acquiring left-hander Jose Quintana from the crosstown Chicago White Sox.
It cost the Cubs dearly, as they surrendered their top two prospects in outfield stud Eloy Jimenez and hard-throwing right-hander Dylan Cease, along with lesser infield prospects Bryant Flete and Matt Rose.
In exchange, however, the North Siders landed a front-line starter who was an All-Star and top-10 Cy Young Award finisher in 2016, has at least 200 innings in each of the last four seasons and is locked into an affordable contract with club options that run through 2020.
It's already paying off, as Quintana is 2-1 with 25 strikeouts in 19 innings for the Cubbies.
As for the rebuilding White Sox, they gave up a big talent but got a hefty return and further gilded one of the most loaded farm systems in baseball.
Cubs' Grade: A
White Sox's Grade: A

As they charge toward a postseason berth, the Arizona Diamondbacks bolstered their offense by adding slugger J.D. Martinez from the Detroit Tigers.
In nine games with the Snakes, Martinez has already launched five home runs and tallied 12 RBI. He's a rental, but he looks like a good one.
"It’s still baseball," Martinez said after crushing a grand slam July 27, per Nick Piecoro of AZCentral.com. "I try to just relax and just play my game."
The Tigers, meanwhile, landed third baseman Dawel Lugo and shortstops Sergio Alcantera and Jose King from a mediocre Arizona system.
It's always tough to judge prospects until you've seen their trajectory play out, but ESPN.com's Keith Law summed up the snap analysis when he called it "a light return" for Detroit.
Diamondbacks' Grade: A
Tigers' Grade: D 

In need of upgrades at first base and in the bullpen, the New York Yankees snagged a package from the White Sox that included infielder Todd Frazier and right-handed relievers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle. 
Kahne and Robertson have been fine additions to the pen, while Frazier is hitting .212 with the Yanks and has one extra-base hit (albeit a home run) in 41 plate appearances.
To acquire the trio, New York gave up outfielder Blake Rutherford (now the No. 5 prospect in the Sox's system), left-hander Ian Clarkin (No. 24 in Chicago's system) and MLB right-hander Tyler Clippard.
Frazier's lack of production, which was predictable given the ho-hum season he was having with Chicago, drags the Yankees' grade down a bit, but Robertson and Kahnle could be key pieces for the stretch run and possibly the postseason.
Yankees' Grade: B-
White Sox's Grade: B+

The Boston Red Sox desperately needed a third baseman, and they found one in the form of speedy, versatile Eduardo Nunez.
Nunez, who came over from the San Francisco Giants for minor league right-handers Shaun Anderson and Gregory Santos, is hitting .417 with a pair of home runs since arriving in Beantown. 
He'll be a free agent after the season and isn't an elite talent, but his legs and defensive flexibility (he can also play shortstop, second base and the outfield) make him a nice ancillary piece for a Red Sox club chasing a second straight division title.
The Giants, meanwhile, turned a few months of Nunez into a decent return, as McCovey Chronicles' Grant Brisbee noted: "The Giants didn't have leverage with Nunez. It was a buyer's market, and the competition for his services wasn’t fierce. They still emerged with a couple of prospects with a chance to crack their top 10 one day." 
That says as much about the Giants' thin system as it does about Anderson and Santos, but the point stands.
Red Sox's Grade: A-
Giants' Grade: A-

The Colorado Rockies are locked in a tight battle with the Diamondbacks for second place in the NL West and the Senior Circuit's top wild-card spot.
They made a couple of significant moves to aid them in that fight, including acquiring veteran right-hander Pat Neshek from the Philadelphia Phillies.
The 36-year-old was having an excellent season with the Phils, posting a 1.12 ERA in 40.1 innings and making his second All-Star team.
In exchange, Philadelphia landed infielder Jose Gomez and right-handers J.D. Hammer and Alejandro Requena. 
Neshek should stabilize a Colorado bullpen that has struggled of late, though the move to Mile High altitude is always an adjustment. 
Philadelphia, meanwhile, added a few interesting MiLB chips, particularly Gomez, who is now the organization's No. 19 prospect, per MLB.com.
Rockies' Grade: B+
Phillies Grade: B+

The small-market Tampa Bay Rays aren't typically big buyers at the deadline, but they landed a decent-sized fish in first baseman Lucas Duda.
Duda has been hot since moving from the New York Mets to Tampa Bay and is hitting .429 with a couple of home runs for a Rays team that's in the AL playoff mix.
The Mets, meanwhile, landed right-hander Drew Smith. MLB.com ranks Smith as New York's No. 30 prospect and notes, "He has all the ingredients to be an effective short reliever, with a ceiling of a future setup man."
That may not feel like a massive return for a guy who got MVP votes in 2014 and is swinging a hot stick, but considering Duda's recent injury issues, defensive limitations and impending free agency, the Mets made out well enough.
Rays' Grade: A
Mets' Grade: B

Sticking with the Mets, they added MLB talent by acquiring closer AJ Ramos from the Miami Marlins.
That would appear to contradict their seller status, but Ramos is under club control through 2018 and will take over ninth-inning duties from Addison Reed (more on him shortly) while Jeurys Familia works his way back from injury.
Ramos locked down 20 saves for the Marlins this season while posting an impressive 10.7 strikeouts per nine innings.
In return, the Fish got 21-year-old righty Merandy Gonzalez and toolsy outfielder Ricardo Cespedes. Gonzalez, who owns a 1.78 ERA between Single-A and High-A this season, becomes Miami's No. 6 prospect, per MLB.com.
The Mets and Marlins are both in strange spots, caught between rebuilding and retooling. Neither made out like a bandit here, but both added value.
Mets' Grade: B
Marlins' Grade: B

For much of the season, the Kansas City Royals looked like obvious sellers. Now, after winning nine of their last 10, the Royals are in the postseason hunt.
They didn't make any blockbusters, but they did bring back old friend Melky Cabrera, who spent a season with K.C. in 2011 and was slashing .295/.336/.436 for the White Sox.
In the deal, the White Sox netted right-hander A.J. Puckett and lefty Andre Davis. Neither profiles as a top prospect, but Puckett is an interesting arm with some upside.
The Royals chose to further deplete a farm system Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked No. 30 in the game. They're pushing their chips in and hoping to make one more run with their recent championship core, much of which is ticketed for free agency.
It's a gamble, but one worth taking.
Royals' Grade: B
White Sox's Grade: B

Last season, Jonathan Lucroy was an All-Star difference-maker when he was traded from the Milwaukee Brewers to the Texas Rangers at the deadline.
Now, he heads from the Rangers to the Rockies for a player to be named later, per ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick.
That's a precipitous fall for one of the best defensive and offensive catchers of the past several years and reflects Lucroy's anemic .635 OPS and eroding pitch-framing skills.
The 31-year-old is in a contract year, so you can bet he'll do everything he can to pad his stats in Colorado and cement a position that's been dubious for the Rockies all season.
The Rangers bought high and sold low on Lucroy. Now, Colorado is hoping for found money.
Rockies' Grade: B
Rangers' Grade: D+

After landing Quintana, the Cubs moved to shore up the bullpen and added a veteran backstop by acquiring left-hander Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila from the Tigers, per MLB.com's Carrie Muskat. 
The Cubs gave up infielder Jeimer Candelario, now the Tigers' No. 3 prospect, as well as minor league shortstop Alex Paredes, a player to be named and cash.
That's a better return than Detroit got for Martinez and a continued thinning of the defending champs' farm system.
At the same time, the Cubs added a solid relief arm in Wilson, who has posted a 2.68 ERA with 55 strikeouts in 40.1 innings this year. In Avila, they got a backup for young Willson Contreras who brings postseason experience and an .869 OPS.
Cubs' Grade: B+
Tigers' Grade: B+

After reeling in Ramos, the Mets got back to selling and sent Reed to the Red Sox in exchange for right-handers Stephen Nogosek, Jamie Callahan and Gerson Bautista, per MLB.com's Ian Browne.
Reed has served as New York's closer for most of the season, posting a 2.57 ERA and notching 19 saves. Now, he'll likely slot in as a setup man behind closer Craig Kimbrel, giving Boston a dynamic late-inning duo.
For a rental, Reed didn't come cheap. Nogosek, Callahan and Bautista all ranked among the Red Sox's top 30 prospects.
President of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski has shifted the franchise into full win-now mode, however, and Reed could help do exactly that.
Red Sox's Grade: B
Mets' Grade: B+

One of two aces to come off the board Monday, right-hander Sonny Gray is going from the Oakland Athletics to the Yankees for outfielder Dustin Fowler, infielder Jorge Mateo and right-hander James Kaprielian, per Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan.
Gray was a top-three AL Cy Young Award finisher in 2015 but tumbled amid injury and inconsistency last season. He's rebounded in 2017 to the tune of a 3.43 ERA across 97 innings and measurably bolsters a Yankees rotation weakened by the loss of Michael Pineda to Tommy John surgery.
Gray also won't hit free agency until 2020, so he fits with the Yankees' dual mandate to win now and build for the future.
That said, general manager Brian Cashman raided his stockpiled farm system, giving up three top minor leaguers in Fowler (now Oakland's No. 3 prospect), Mateo (Oakland's No. 5 prospect) and Kaprielian (Oakland's No. 11 prospect). Fowler in particular profiles as a future star, though he's recovering from a serious knee injury.
The A's got value, as they usually do, while the Yankees got a controllable arm with ace upside who isn't a sure thing to deliver on his promise.
Yankees' Grade: B
Athletics' Grade: B+

In an eleventh-hour deal that firmed up their status as the NL's team to beat, the Los Angeles Dodgers acquired right-hander Yu Darvish from the Rangers for second baseman/outfielder Willie Calhoun, right-hander A.J. Alexy and infielder Brendon Davis, per Passan.
Darvish is a rental, but he's also a four-time All-Star who has struck out 148 hitters in 137 innings and will form a potent lefty-righty combo with Clayton Kershaw, assuming the Dodgers ace sheds his recent back issues.
Add Alex Wood and Rich Hill, and you're talking about one heck of a postseason rotation.
The Dodgers shipped some talent to Texas, including their No. 4 prospect in Calhoun, but managed to keep coveted outfielder Alex Verdugo and top pitching prospects Walker Buehler and Yadier Alvarez. 
The Rangers, who are clinging to the fringes of the AL playoff race, were smart to see the writing on the wall and leverage Darvish before he bolted for a massive free-agent payday.
The Dodgers, likewise, deserve credit for not gutting the farm while plowing full steam ahead toward their first pennant and World Series win since 1988.
Rangers' Grade: B+
Dodgers' Grade: A
   
All statistics current as of Monday and courtesy of Baseball-Reference and StatCorner.
Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP
Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half?
Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year
Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant
The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge
Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4
Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals
Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block
Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4?
Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers?
Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already?
Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards
Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up
Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C.
Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive
Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games
Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game?
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors
The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri
Connect to the stories, teams, athletes and highlights that make the game more than a game.      
Speaking of the game, it's time to take your sports knowledge to the next level! Download the free Bleacher Report app to catch all the moments that matter in one place. Get the app to get the game.

New York Mets top prospect Amed Rosario finally got called up to the majors by the team.
Anthony DiComo of MLB.com reported he will make his debut Tuesday night against the Colorado Rockies.
"Bringing [Rosario] up in the first part of August has been our plan for six weeks or so, assuming he played well," general manager Sandy Alderson said, per Mike Puma of the New York Post.
The shortstop is not only considered the No. 1 player in the Mets farm system, he is listed as the second-best prospect in all of baseball by MLB.com. Only Yoan Moncada is considered better, and he is already playing for the Chicago White Sox.
Rosario has had no problem hitting pitchers in the minors, batting .324 across two levels in 2016 before tallying a .328 batting average in Triple-A in 2017, via Baseball Reference.
He has also added seven home runs and 17 stolen bases to showcase his all-around ability.
The Mets took a long time to bring the 21-year-old up to the Show, but the holdup clearly had nothing to do with his production.
"To suggest he's not major league-ready is insulting," a scout told Joel Sherman of the New York Post.
The player also said he was "one hundred percent ready," before making his second appearance in the MLB Futures Game this July, per David Lennon of Newsday.
While the Mets have Jose Reyes and Asdrubal Cabrera on the roster, Rosario should get a chance to show what he can do as an everyday player in the majors for at least the rest of the season.
New York remains unlikely to make the playoffs, but adding the young prospect to the 25-man roster should generate plenty of excitement in the final stretch of the season.

Another busy MLB trade season is now in the rearview mirror, as Monday's deadline represented the end of the non-waiver trade period.
There may still be a few impact moves made over the next month on the waiver wire, but we should now have a good idea of what teams are going to look like for the stretch run.
Starting pitching was once again the most valuable trade commodity as Yu Darvish and Sonny Gray joined the previously dealt Jose Quintana in blockbuster deals.
As usual, bullpen additions were also made across the MLB landscape, while the J.D. Martinez trade earlier this month stood up as the biggest move to acquire a bat.
Following the flurry of trade activity, on-field performance won't be the only factor in determining whether teams climbed or fell in this week's rankings.
Going forward, remember these rankings are fluid and that teams rise and fall based on where they were ranked the previous week. If a team keeps winning, it will keep climbing—it's as simple as that.
With that in mind, here's a look at where all 30 teams stand:
     
Deadline Recap

Already the No. 1 team in our rankings for several weeks running, the Los Angeles Dodgers further cemented their standing as the team to beat by acquiring starter Yu Darvish and lefty relievers Tony Watson and Tony Cingrani on deadline day.
Darvish gives the staff a front-line replacement for the injured Clayton Kershaw during the stretch run, and that duo will form an imposing one-two punch in October.
Meanwhile, after struggling to a 4.65 ERA over his first 29 appearances, Watson has posted a 1.72 ERA with six holds in his last 18 games. An All-Star in 2014, he should be a valuable complement to Pedro Baez in the setup role.
Cingrani is more of a wild card, but with plus stuff and team control through the 2019 season, he's an intriguing addition.
The other blockbuster move on deadline day was the New York Yankees' addition of Sonny Gray, which—along with a 5-1 showing last week—was enough to vault them into the No. 6 spot in the rankings.
With Masahiro Tanaka pitching better of late (more on that in a bit), the Yankees have a potentially formidable pairing atop the rotation.
Shipping out prospects James Kaprielian, Jorge Mateo and Dustin Fowler was a steep price for the Yankees to pay, but losing those guys doesn't alter the club's long-term outlook, and having Gray through the 2019 season is a major boon to its long-term outlook.
The Chicago Cubs already made their big move when they acquired Jose Quintana from the Chicago White Sox earlier this month, and they put the finishing touches on the roster by acquiring Justin Wilson and Alex Avila from the Detroit Tigers.
Wilson gives them a shutdown lefty reliever with control through next season, while the veteran Avila will help lighten the load of Willson Contreras down the stretch. Picking up those two was enough to gain them a few extra spots as well, along with their series wins over the White Sox and Brewers last week.
The rest of the deals Monday were smaller in scale and didn't have much of a bearing on the rankings, though they could still prove significant.
A number of other contenders added to their relief corps as Addison Reed (BOS), Brandon Kintzler (WAS), Jeremy Jeffress (MIL), Francisco Liriano (HOU), Joe Smith (CLE) and Joaquin Benoit (PIT) were all on the move.
The Orioles added infielder Tim Beckham, who could serve as an immediate and future replacement for veteran J.J. Hardy, while the Diamondbacks picked up utility infielder Adam Rosales to help ease the loss of Chris Owings to a fractured finger.
That was the gist of another exciting MLB trade deadline: The Dodgers added to what's already been a juggernaut, the Yankees made it clear they're trying to win now without mortgaging the future, and the Cubs were able to lend credence to the idea that their best baseball may still be in front of them.
         
MVPs of the Week
AL MVP: Masahiro Tanaka, New York Yankees

Stats: 1 GS, W, 8.0 IP, 2 H, 1 ER, 0 BB, 14 K
If the Yankees are going be legitimate contenders, they're going to need Tanaka to pitch like a front-line starter.
He did just that Friday with a 14-strikeout performance against the Tampa Bay Rays.
"Yeah, it was [no-hit stuff]," Rays manager Kevin Cash told reporters. "Generally you tie no-hit stuff into a lot of power. But he does it a different way. But you could tell early on from the swings that guys were taking that he had really, really good, late deceptive stuff."
Since struggling to a 6.34 ERA over his first 14 starts, Tanaka has picked it up of late with a 3.06 ERA, 0.91 WHIP and a .214 opponents' batting average in his last seven starts.
       
NL MVP: Manuel Margot, San Diego Padres

Stats: 14-for-28, 2 2B, 1 3B, 3 HR, 6 RBI, 6 R
Manuel Margot might not make a run at Cody Bellinger for NL Rookie of the Year honors, but he's quietly enjoying a solid debut season for the rebuilding San Diego Padres.
The 22-year-old is hitting .357 with a .958 OPS since the All-Star break with an impressive eight multihit games.
That's been enough to raise his season triple-slash line to .281/.321/.431 with 23 extra-base hits and 11 stolen bases as one of the clear bright spots on a club that's focused on the future.
Margot is the ninth-youngest player to suit up in the majors this year, and he may just be scratching the surface of his two-way potential as a Gold Glove defender and impact table-setter atop the lineup.
         
Stats of the Week
Let's dive into some of the better nuggets from around the league.
We'll start with Adrian Beltre, who further padded what's already an impressive Hall of Fame resume when he joined the 3,000-hit club over the weekend.
On Sunday, Adrián Beltré became the 31st player -- and 1st Dominican-born player -- in MLB history to record 3,000 hits #statnightcap https://t.co/Bz01QDPNWx
How much further will the 38-year-old climb up the all-time list? With a .307 average and .917 OPS on the year, he appears to have plenty left in the tank.
Meanwhile, Kyle Farmer picked up his first career hit in dramatic fashion as he delivered a two-run, pinch-hit, walk-off double in his MLB debut Sunday.
.@Kfarm17’s first big-league at-bat?

A #walkoff hit to give the @Dodgers a comeback win in the 11th - their EIGHTH straight. NBD! https://t.co/fIRZpCacRd
That was win No. 74 for the Dodgers, putting them in exclusive company.
For all teams within the 162-game era, @Dodgers are 3rd club to win 74 of their first 105, after '98 @Yankees (77) and '01 @Mariners (76). https://t.co/iUXYWh17be
They're no doubt hoping things end up more like the World Series-winning '98 Yankees than the '01 Mariners, who were ousted in the ALCS.
Chris Sale and Max Scherzer continue to strike out hitters at an impressive clip.
The only pitcher in Red Sox history with more punchouts before Aug. 1 than the 211 Sale has piled up so far this season is Roger Clemens with 232 in 1988, per Elias. Clemens finished that season with 291 total.
As for Scherzer, his nine strikeouts Thursday gave him his sixth consecutive 200-strikeout season, the longest active streak.
Pedro Martinez holds the single-season strikeout record for the Expos/Nationals organization with 305 in 1997. Scherzer will need 105 more the rest of the way to surpass that mark.
Finally, here are a couple of interesting tidbits that stemmed from Andrew McCutchen's three-homer game against the Padres.
This was the 12th 3-HR game allowed by Padres since 2002 (most in MLB). Padres have zero 3-HR games in that span (longest active drought). https://t.co/obCqQ2lg38
Hunter Renfroe might have something to say about that in the near future.
       
Must-See Upcoming Matchup

Washington Nationals vs. Chicago Cubs (Friday-Sunday)
Expect the Los Angeles Dodgers to be tuning in closely to this series.
All due respect to the Diamondbacks, Rockies and Brewers, who are all still angling for a postseason push of their own, but right now it looks like the Nationals and Cubs stand as the biggest roadblocks in the Dodgers' pursuit of an NL pennant.
The Cubs bolstered their pitching staff for the present and future by trading for Jose Quintana and Justin Wilson, and they added veteran backstop Alex Avila to keep from running Willson Contreras ragged over the final two months.
As for the Nationals, they addressed a shaky bullpen situation well before the deadline arrived when they acquired Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson from the Oakland Athletics on July 16. They then added All-Star Brandon Kintzler to the mix Monday. The eventual return of Trea Turner will also provide a significant late spark.
The two teams split a four-game series at Nationals Park in late June, but unlike that matchup, the Nationals won't have Stephen Strasburg or Max Scherzer throwing this time around.
With the Cubs looking for some separation in the NL Central standings and the Nationals looking to prove they belong right alongside the Dodgers in the conversation for NL supremacy, this series should provide a postseason atmosphere in early August.
               
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted and accurate through Sunday. Deadline trade information gathered via MLBTradeRumors.com.
Looking for someone to yell at about where your favorite team was slotted in the latest rankings? I'll meet you in the comments section.

There is only one possible way Sonny Gray is not a fit with the New York Yankees: He is but a wee lad of 5'10".
I mean, have you seen these Yankees? They're enormous. Walk into their clubhouse and it's like you've stepped into a huddle with NFL linemen. Dellin Betances is 6'8", 265 pounds. Aaron Judge is 6'7", 282. CC Sabathia is 6'6", 300. Even closer Aroldis Chapman goes 6'4", 212. They could lead the league in velocity (fastball, and exit) and yards per carry. Hut, hut!
Otherwise...heck yeah, Gray was the Hail Mary pass the 2017 Yankees needed not only to strengthen their bid for an American League East title this year but also for the near future, too. The beautiful thing about this acquisition is that it furthers what general manager Brian Cashman and Co. started last year, this whole business of re-tooling the pinstripes.
Gray finally is pitching like an upper-rotation starter after a year-and-a-half detour, a detour that as recently as at the All-Star Game in Miami a couple of weeks ago had executives riveted about how this would turn out. As one exec told me then, there is a difference "between where they value him and what he is." Well, in four July starts, Gray pitched a lot closer to Oakland's opinion of him than anything else: He was 3-1 with a 1.48 ERA and 0.99 WHIP.

Just in the nick (not Swisher) of time, Gray helped Oakland executive vice president of baseball operations Billy Beane and general manager David Forst squeeze good value out of a return.
Under club control through 2019, Gray also fits not just with Judge, Gary Sanchez and Luis Severino as they charge toward the stretch run this year, but he also nicely will complement first baseman Greg Bird next year (or when he returns)...and shortstop prospect Gleyber Torres when he shows up...and left-hander Justus Sheffield when he appears.
Look, the Yankees are loaded and remain loaded. This was a big win for them in that they didn't have to empty their strong, revamped farm system to obtain badly needed pitching help for the rest of this season and beyond. And they've energized an already overachieving team in the thick of the summer.
"We're back to the same old Yankees. The goal is to win the World Series. We're here now." - @CC_Sabathia
Oakland did fine in the deal, but the Athletics' part of it came wrapped in Ace bandages and ice: Outfielder Dustin Fowler, 22, is out for the year with a knee injury suffered in his debut with the Yankees in June. Right-hander James Kaprielian, 23, is out for the season following Tommy John surgery in April. Shortstop Jorge Mateo, 22, is the one piece still standing, but he's got some things still to prove after New York iced him for two weeks last season, a suspension that caused him to miss the Futures Game.
There are Yankees fans who fell in love with Fowler this summer—ah, young (prospect) love, it's a powerful force—and who liked Mateo and no doubt have mixed emotions about losing them. But that's the wrong lens through which to view Monday's deal.
Let's reiterate: Gray will join Severino, Masahiro Tanaka (on those days when he actually, you know, pitches to his potential) and a re-energized Sabathia to give the Yankees a strong chance to win every night, not to mention maybe scare Boston's David Price into focusing on his opponents instead of on the Red Sox television broadcasters and media.
And while the Yankees accomplished that, they still held on to Torres, Sheffield, outfielder Clint Frazier and a whole bunch of other prospects who fit into their future. In the days leading up to Monday's non-waiver trade deadline, I was talking prospects with one high-ranking MLB official, discussing the fine line between properly valuing them and overvaluing them, and he went on and on about how the real pain Cleveland felt in sending a four-player package to New York for Andrew Miller last July was in parting with Sheffield. That guy, the executive said, is going to be an ace.
Maybe. Probably. Who knows? That's the thing with prospects: Until they develop, it's all just working on spec. But the point is the Yankees still have Sheffield. And Frazier and Torres.
And in addition to Gray, they've added starter Jaime Garcia, bolstered their bullpen with David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle and added infielder Todd Frazier.
Girardi: "Ownership &amp; the front office have given us the opportunity to do something special here. Now we have to go out and do it."
When Cashman unloaded Miller and Chapman one year ago, it signaled the beginning of the end, in short order, for Alex Rodriguez, Mark Teixeira and Brian McCann, too. While the Yankees were thrilled with their haul for the two relief aces, there was no way anybody could have predicted that one year later they'd be leading the division by half a game over Boston and gaining momentum.
Yet the cards were played Monday on another trade deadline, and here the Yankees are. So bring it on, Sonny Gray. Come deliver your goods, and your moxie. You fit like a glove (Rawlings, or Wilson).
But maybe, just in case, you'll want to hit the weight room a few times. Your new teammates are pretty darned intimidating.
    
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.

The MLB non-waiver trade deadline passed at 4 p.m. ET on Monday with two major players on the move while a number of other stars stayed put. 
The biggest news of the day concerned the trades of starting pitchers Sonny Gray and Yu Darvish. 
The New York Yankees landed Gray from the Oakland Athletics, which had long been rumored. In exchange for Gray and $1.5 million in international bonus money, the Yankees sent prospects Dustin Fowler, Jorge Mateo and James Kaprielian to Oakland. 
MLB Tonight broke down the acquisition: 
The @Yankees have reportedly acquired @Athletics RHP Sonny Gray. #TradeDeadline #MLBTonight https://t.co/pOmULuuids
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com also evaluated the prospects Oakland received: 
Interesting that A's are getting Fowler (knee surgery) &amp; Kaprielian (TJ surgery) in Gray deal. Big prospects coming back from big injuries.
So Yankees land Sonny Gray while hanging on to Torres, Frazier, Sheffield, Adams and Florial - 5 of their top 6 prospects per @MLBPipeline.
Bill Simmons of The Ringer didn't understand the trade from the Athletics' perspective: 
They didn't even get a top-75 prospect - why wouldn't Oakland just keep Gray? https://t.co/W6ZIKPkHqr
It's a fair question given that Gray is under club control through the 2019 season and just 27. On the other hand, the Athletics are 46-59 and unlikely to be a contender in the next season or two, so rebuilding and stocking the farm system made sense. 
The New York Post offered more details on the prospects: 
"Fowler is a highly-touted outfielder who made his Yankees debut earlier this season, suffering a ruptured patellar tendon crashing into the wall against the White Sox before he even had his first at-bat. Mateo, a fleet-footed middle infielder, has showed flashes of potential and frustration in his time in the Yankees' system. Kaprielian was the Yankees' top pitching prospect before requiring Tommy John surgery earlier this year."
Baseball writer Ken Rosenthal liked the deal for both sides:
Love Gray trade for both. #Yankees get their man. #Athletics get three big pieces, even if Kaprelian, Fowler out for season with injuries.
Jon Tayler of SI.com preferred it for the Yankees:
Two injured prospects for a good cheap starter under team control. Cashman is a wizard. https://t.co/DlnUBU8YNy
From New York's perspective, the deal was a no-brainer and dramatically improves a team built to win both now and in the future. Baseball Reference provided context on the team's rotation before the Gray deal:
Even before adding Gray, the #Yankees had the fifth best SP rotation in MLB, according to Wins Above Average https://t.co/90etJZPLOG
"Everyone is pretty ecstatic to add another No. 1 starter," Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier said, according to Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com.
"He's a really good arm," outfielder Brett Gardner added, per Bryan Hoch of MLB.com. "He can automatically slide into any rotation and make the team better."
The AL's top team, the Houston Astros, didn't stand pat but didn't make the sort of splash the Yankees did. They added starter Francisco Liriano, per Buster Olney of ESPN.com, and he'll transition to the bullpen, per Craig Calcaterra of NBC Sports:
Liriano gonna be a reliever. I'm assuming that entails a change in approach, but he's been destroyed in the first inning this year.
For the rest of the afternoon, it appeared the other major storyline would be the players who weren't moved before the deadline, such as Baltimore Orioles closer Zach Britton. Justin Verlander, who had been one of the starting pitchers in the rumor mill, had a bit of fun on social media as the deadline neared:
A photo posted by Justin Verlander (@justinverlander)
So did Texas Rangers ace Yu Darvish, the subject of trade rumors himself:
10min!! https://t.co/gwP7qwvh8d
But then things got interesting, per Jon Morosi of MLB.com:
It remains unclear whether Yu Darvish was traded in minutes before 4 pm ET. @MLB
Very interesting:
Source: Darvish to #Dodgers
Very, very interesting, according to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports:
Source: Dodgers send Calhoun, Alexy and Davis to Rangers for Yu Darvish. Deal done.
Baseball Twitter liked the move for the Dodgers. B/R's Zachary Rymer, for one, was a fan of the decision:
Best team in baseball gets best pitcher on market.
https://t.co/ljrsRs5oxx
So was Bob Nightengale of USA Today:
The #Dodgers, who are on pace to win 114 games, also are on pace to win their first World Series since 1988 with their haul today
The Dodgers also added Tony Watson from the Pittsburgh Pirates and Tony Cingrani from the Cincinnati Reds on Monday, per Andy McCullough and Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times.
Bill Plaschke of the Los Angeles Times joined the praise party:
Dodgers front office just pulled a late winning rally like their team. Darvish means they're going for it. Championship move
On Monday, the rich got richer. The best team in baseball added a legitimate ace to pair with Clayton Kershaw. The Yankees added Gray to a young core that should be competitive for several seasons. Other teams made smaller moves that didn't provide a major splash but should help playoff pushes.
For most of the day, it appeared there wouldn't be much drama. But with Gray and Darvish on the move, Monday's trade deadline turned out to be a memorable one.

The trade deadline is almost always a gamble for teams trying to strengthen themselves for the stretch run.
Coming up with the right move can lead to a postseason appearance and a potential spot in the World Series. However, even if a general manager gets the right results at the deadline, trading young prospects for proven veteran talent can lead to major problems in future years.
With that as the backdrop, here's our assessment of the key moves made at the trade deadline.
         
Yankees make huge deal and acquire Gray from Oakland
The New York Yankees had been working on a deal to acquire Sonny Gray from the Oakland A's in the days leading up to the trade deadline. With an hour to go before the 4 p.m. ET finish line, the deal was finally completed and the Bronx Bombers acquired the Oakland right-hander.
The Yankees sent three prospects in Jorge Mateo, James Kaprelian and Dustin Fowler for Gray's services, according to the Athletics. Mateo may be the brightest light of the trio, as he has game-breaking speed and a slash line of .258/.318/.438 this season. Mateo has stolen 39 bases in 49 attempts while playing for Tampa and Trenton this year.
Kaprelian and Fowler are both battling injuries, but both are solid prospects, according to Jonathan Mayo of MLB.com when he was interviewed on the MLB Network. Kaprelian throws a fastball in the 93-96 mph range, while Fowler could be a 20-home run, 20-stolen base-type of player once he fully develops his talent.
Gray fits in as the Yankees' No. 2 starter behind Luis Severino, and he has a 3.43 ERA with 94 strikeouts in 97.0 innings this season. The 27-year-old pitcher will be eligible for arbitration in 2018.
         
Breaking: The Dodgers have agreed to acquire Yu Darvish from the Rangers. (via Fox Sports) https://t.co/MF6j5XNgcX
Dodgers go all-in and acquire Darvish and Watson
The Los Angeles Dodgers have the best record in baseball (74-31), but they were not content to sit on their lead at the trade deadline.
They acquired starting pitcher Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers shortly after trading for relief pitcher Tony Watson of the Pittsburgh Pirates, per MLB.com's Ken Gurnick.
The Darvish trade was first reported by Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal. The Rangers received prospects Willie Calhoun, A.J. Alexy and Brendon Davis, according to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports.
Darvish has a 4.01 ERA with 148 strikeouts in 137.0 innings along with a 1.168 WHIP. When the 30-year-old is on his game, he has an array of pitches that often baffles hitters.
Watson has a 3.66 ERA and 10 saves. He has struck out 35 batters in 46.2 innings. The 32-year-old is the type of reliever who can come in for an inning and pitch effectively as he helps get the game to closer Kenley Jansen.
           
The Cubs have reportedly acquired reliever Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila from the Tigers https://t.co/dV3UQDaych
Cubs get Wilson, Avila from Tigers
The Chicago Cubs made a move to bolster their bullpen in trading for left-handed pitcher Justin Wilson of the Detroit Tigers and brought in veteran catcher Alex Avila, according to the club. They sent a pair of prospects in third baseman Jeimer Candelario and shortstop Isaac Paredes along with future considerations (cash or a player to be named).
Wilson is a hard-throwing left-hander who is having an excellent season. He is holding batters to a .157 average, and he is quite effective against right-handers because he has a dynamic cutter. Avila is a veteran catcher who has the know-how to calm down pitchers who find themselves in high-pressure situations.
While Willson Contreras is the team's No. 1 catcher, an experienced veteran at that position is an asset for a contending team like the defending World Series champions.
Candelario was going to have a difficult time ever breaking into the Cubs lineup since 2016 Most Valuable Player Kris Bryant mans third base for the Cubs. He has a .266/.361/.507 slash line for Triple-A Iowa and should get a chance to play regularly for the Tigers. Paredes is an 18-year-old prospect with much to prove.
          

Red Sox pick up bullpen help in Reed
The Boston Red Sox have seen their bullpen start to slide in recent weeks, and president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski made a move to improve that unit by trading for Addison Reed of the New York Mets.
The Red Sox sent three minor league pitchers to the Mets in exchange for Reed. Jamie Callahan, Gerson Bautista and Stephen Nogosek were all highly rated within the Red Sox organization, according to a report from Mark Carig of Newsday.
Reed has been a solid pitcher for the Mets this season, as he has delivered a 2.57 ERA along with 19 saves while pitching in 48 games. He has two blown saves in 2017.
Reed gained postseason experience with the Mets in 2015, and he will most likely emerge as the key set-up man for ace closer for Craig Kimbrel.
Nogosek possesses the greatest upside of the three relievers and has 63 strikeouts in 53 innings at the Single-A level, according to David Schoenfield of ESPN.com. Callahan has 56 strikeouts in 42 innings at Triple-A, while Bautista has an explosive fastball but is troubled by control issues.
          
UPDATE: Blue Jays trade LHP Francisco Liriano to Astros for OF Nori Aoki and a minor league player (via @brianmctaggart) #MLBTradeDeadline https://t.co/1QMs9Njo07
Blue Jays trade Liriano to Astros
The Toronto Blue Jays traded left-handed starter Francisco Liriano to the Houston Astros in a deal that sends outfielder Nori Aoki and minor league prospect Teoscar Hernandez to the Blue Jays, according to the Canadian Press (h/t CBC Sports).
Liriano has had an inconsistent season to this point, with a 6-5 record and a 5.88 ERA over 18 starts.
The Astros are counting on Liriano will add depth to their pitching staff on a team that has the best record (68-36) in the American League.
        
Nats get Kintzler from Twins
The Washington Nationals acquired relief pitcher Brandon Kintzler in a deadline-day deal with the Minnesota Twins, according to a tweet first reported by Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post and confirmed by baseball insider Ken Rosenthal.
Kintzler, who turns 33 Tuesday, was an American League All-Star this season. He has a 2.78 ERA and 28 saves and gives the Washington bullpen greater credibility and depth.
       
Verlander, Britton stay put
While the Yankees, Dodgers, Cubs and Red Sox helped themselves at the deadline, big-name pitchers Justin Verlander of the Detroit Tigers and Zach Britton of the Baltimore Orioles were not traded.
Verlander and Britton had been mentioned in potential trades, but the Tigers and Orioles were not persuaded to move those players by the deadline.
Trades can still be made in August, provided the players clear waivers, but it was somewhat surprising that those two pitchers were not moved Monday.

MLB's non-waiver trade window slammed shut on Monday. This makes exchanges increasingly complex and unlikely, but not impossible.
Clubs can still complete trades through waivers. If a player clears the waiver wire, his team is free to negotiate around the league. If he's claimed, the team can either discuss a deal exclusively with that squad or renounce the player's rights. A player must be acquired by September 1 to hold postseason eligibility for his new team.
The process is typically reserved for unappealing veterans who will round out a contender's roster. Michael Bourn, Coco Crisp, Fernando Salas and Marc Rzepczynski were among the most notable names to switch teams in an August. Yet an expensive star occasionally slips through the system.
Brad Hand or Zach Britton won't get dealt via this method. Players must draw minimal demand because of poor performance and/or a costly salary to stand a chance. Let's take a look at a few players who could change towns after clearing waivers.
         
Johnny Cueto, SP, San Francisco Giants

By far the most ambitious candidate, Johnny Cueto is two years removed from vaulting the Kansas City Royals to a World Series championship. He began his six-year contract by registering a 2.79 ERA in 219.2 innings for the San Francisco Giants in 2016.
The 31-year-old ace hasn't fared as well this season, relinquishing a 4.59 ERA and 121 hits in 115.2 frames. He can opt out of his contract this offseason, and the 40-66 Giants could be mathematically eliminated from the National League West by the time he returns from the disabled list.
Although his blisters derailed the Giants' opportunity to shop him before the non-waiver deadline, he return from the 10-day disabled list to take the mound in August. According to East Bay Times' Andrew Baggarly, the veteran will make his first rehab start on Monday.
Per SFGate.com's Henry Schulman, Cueto stressed the importance of making a minor league pit stop when the team considered bringing him straight to the majors.
"I went seven days without even picking up a baseball. Now it's more than 10 days since I pitched," Cueto said through translator Erwin Higueros. "I can't all of a sudden pick up a baseball and step on a major league mound and throw. I can't hurt myself, look bad and make the team look bad."
Even with the Giants far removed from the playoff chase, Cueto's next starts could prove monumental. A strong return could help him land on a contender and allow the team to forgo paying a $21 million guaranteed salary in each of the next four seasons.
Few teams could afford his current deal, so the risk of paying a well-traveled hurler through his age-35 season should allow him to sneak through waivers. Or at least fall far enough to a deep-pocketed contender.
        
Neil Walker, 2B, New York Mets

The New York Mets had a busy week, announcing a trade of Addison Reed to the Red Sox and moving moving Lucas Duda to the Rays and while bringing aboard AJ Ramos with 2018 in mind. Yet they didn't find a new home for several position players on expiring contracts.
MLB's inflated power dampened the demand on hitters, creating a sour market for veteran bats. Yet Neil Walker, who batted .282/.347/.476 with 3.7 WAR last season, would have derived the most value had a hamstring injury not taken him out of action for six weeks.
Walker is still working off the rust, batting 2-for-11 with five strikeouts and displaying shaky defense since returning on Friday. Prospective buyers weren't impressed enough to pounce before the non-waiver deadline, but there's still time.
If the 31-year-old finds his footing, he could spawn an August transaction. Newsday's Marc Carig anticipated interest in the second baseman:
There will be teams that check in on Neil Walker in August, so Mets not done.
After selling most of their soon-to-be free agents, the Mets will gladly move Walker's expiring contract if possible. Because he's playing on a $17.2 million qualifying offer, nobody out of the playoff hunt is likely to block them with a waiver claim.
The Arizona Diamondbacks could be the perfect trade partner. Brandon Drury hasn't hit a home run since June 13, and Chris Owings fractured his finger on Sunday. Per the team's Twitter account, it placed him on the 60-day disabled list.
The Cleveland Indians would make sense if Jason Kipnis' return from a hamstring injury doesn't go according to plan. If not, another injury could create a need for Walker elsewhere.
Jay Bruce, Curtis Granderson, Asdrubal Cabrera and Jose Reyes are also all waiver trade candidates.
        
Rajai Davis, OF, Oakland Athletics

Rajai Davis nearly became a folk hero last year. Had Cleveland won the World Series' Game 7, his game-tying home run off Aroldis Chapman would have stood as the biggest moment in franchise history.
Despite the clutch blast, the 36-year-old outfielder moved to the Oakland Athletics, with whom he has hit a feeble .235/.296/.350 in 285 plate appearances. That tame slash line didn't net enough trade interest in a market more interested in pitching, but he's the perfect August bonus buy.

While most contenders don't need extra pop, speedsters aren't as widely available. Only Dee Gordon has stolen more bases than Davis' 241 since 2011. 
He's also heating up at the plate, hitting .310/.385/.448 in July. A free swinger throughout his career, he has shown more patience with 14 walks over his last 130 plate appearances.
As a career .286/.342/.434 hitter against lefties, Davis could also fill the short end of a platoon if needed. There isn't a huge demand for outfielders, but injuries could clear a spot somewhere by the end of August. The well-traveled pinch runner and fourth outfielder would only cost a low-level prospect.
Other Waiver Trade Candidates
C Kurt Suzuki, Atlanta Braves; 1B Yonder Alonso, Oakland Athletics; INF Asdrubal Cabera, Mets; OFs Jay Bruce and Curtis Granderson, Mets; OF Matt Joyce, Athletics; OF Carlos Gomez, Texas Rangers; SP Marco Estrada, Toronto Blue Jays; SP R.A. Dickey, Braves; SP Ricky Nolasco, Los Angeles Angels; RP Drew Storen, Cincinnati Reds; RP Brad Ziegler, Miami Marlins
      
Note: All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Salary information obtained from Cot's Baseball Contracts. 

The Texas Rangers traded starting pitcher Yu Darvish to the Los Angeles Dodgers right before Monday's non-waiver trade deadline.
Texas announced the deal, revealing it received outfielder/second baseman Willie Calhoun, pitcher A.J. Alexy and infielder Brendon Davis.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports first reported the trade.
Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports later weighed in on the return:
Willie Calhoun is the prize for Texas. Bat will play in the big leagues. The question is position. At 2B now. Scouts worry he won't stay.
A.J. Alexy is a big RHP just a year out of HS who's punching out a lot of guys in A ball. Could grow into frame and gain velo. Upside play.
Brendon Davis is a classic Rangers athlete play. He's a huge -- 6-4 -- and skinny infielder. Big flameout risk. Also monster upside.
Darvish was one of the top pitching options on the MLB trade market. Through 22 starts, he has a 4.01 ERA and a 3.98 fielding independent pitching (FIP) mark, per FanGraphs.
Moving Darvish makes sense for Texas. The Houston Astros are running away with the American League West, while the Japanese right-hander is in the final year of his contract.
Since the Rangers are likely going to miss the playoffs, they might as well trade Darvish now rather than possibly watch him leave in free agency for nothing. The Rangers can still sign Darvish as a free agent in the offseason, similar to how the New York Yankees brought back Aroldis Chapman after trading him in the middle of last season.
The deal signals that Texas may be abandoning its playoff pursuit in the short term, but FanGraphs' Dave Cameron argued in May that being a seller at the deadline can be a good thing: 
"As the Yankees showed last year, being the guy with the stuff everyone wants can be an enviable position, and the Yankees' willingness to sell at last year's deadline was probably one of the best things that has happened to the franchise in a while. The Rangers won't control the starting pitching market the same way the Yankees controlled the reliever market, but for teams looking at a short-term upgrade, there's not going to be a more appealing option than slotting Darvish in at the front of their rotation."  
Through the Darvish trade, general manager Jon Daniels can rebuild a farm system that went from one of MLB's best to among the more middling. Baseball America ranked Texas' minor league organization at No. 22 prior to this year, and Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter listed the farm system 24th following the MLB draft.
The Rangers aren't necessarily executing a full-scale rebuild. Rougned Odor, Cole Hamels, Elvis Andrus, Joey Gallo, Nomar Mazara and Adrian Beltre are all under contract or team control through at least next year. Texas' window for contention is open through 2018.
For the time being, however, Daniels' priorities have shifted.
The Dodgers, meanwhile, will view Darvish as somebody can help get them into the playoffs and win a World Series.
Relying on half-season rentals is risky, though, and Darvish is no different. He's averaging 9.72 strikeouts per nine innings, over two fewer than last year (11.84). Fans who expect the version of Darvish who finished second in the 2013 AL Cy Young voting may be disappointed.
While he only turns 31 in August, Darvish's workload in Japan prior to his arrival in MLB raises questions over whether his career arc will resemble that of a typical starting pitcher.
Hideo Nomo and Daisuke Matsuzaka are the most notable examples of Japanese pitchers who hit a wall early in their time in the United States and never fully recovered.
Darvish may have just gotten off to a slow start in the first half with a regression to the mean set to come in the second half. But between all of the mileage he has put on his right arm and the Tommy John surgery he had in 2015, it wouldn't be surprising if his decline came in swift fashion.
Regardless, the rich get richer in this trade. The Dodgers already had one of the strongest starting rotations in the majors, and now they're adding Darvish.
Darvish also provides some stability on the mound with Clayton Kershaw's back injury a cause for concern.
The Dodgers front office is showing how desperate it is to win a World Series. Los Angeles could've stuck with what it had and remained the best team in the National League. Instead, the Dodgers are leaving as little to chance as possible when it comes to the postseason.

Justin Verlander was the subject of various trade rumors over the past week, but the Detroit Tigers starter hasn't been dealt yet.
How do we know? He provided an update on his Twitter account:
**BREAKING** Source: I'm still in the Tigers locker room. https://t.co/2XJu9v3cHz https://t.co/g86ra4u1C4
Texas Rangers starter Yu Darvish took a similar approach to update his fans:
10min!! https://t.co/gwP7qwvh8d
Unfortunately for the Japanese star, he was dealt just at the deadline to the Los Angeles Dodgers:
OFFICIAL: Yu Darvish has been traded to the Dodgers for OF/2B Willie Calhoun, RHP A.J. Alexy &amp; INF Brendon Davis. https://t.co/Ht2d3qtDoL
Verlander could always be traded after the non-waiver deadline throughout August, but he at least appears happy to be still with his current team Monday.
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com reported last week the Tigers were "shopping Verlander aggressively," and he has been linked with the Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros over the past few days.
Bob Nightengale of USA Today noted the Rangers were "certain" Darvish would be dealt before the deadline.
Verlander has spent all 13 years of his career in Detroit, winning an MVP award and a Cy Young award in 2011 and finishing second in Cy Young voting last year. Darvish had been in Texas his entire career, earning four All-Star appearances since 2012.
While fans are always looking at the latest rumors and speculation, these players showed the human aspect of the trade deadline. One was fortunate to remain with his friends, while the other is now on the move.

The rebuilding Oakland Athletics dealt another big-name player Monday, trading starting pitcher Sonny Gray to the New York Yankees for prospects Dustin Fowler, Jorge Mateo and James Kaprielian.
The Athletics announced the deal after Jack Curry of the YES Network first reported the deal was done. The Yankees will also receive $1.5 million in international bonus money as part of the swap.
Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports provided further information about Oakland's return for its former ace:
Dustin Fowler out with knee surgery, James Kaprelian down with TJ, but if both get back healthy, that's a whopper of a return for Oakland.
Following three excellent seasons to start his MLB career, Gray struggled mightily in 2016 to the tune of a 5-11 record with a 5.69 ERA, 1.50 WHIP and 94 strikeouts in 117 innings.
He was also hampered by injuries as he landed on the disabled list on two occasions with trapezius and forearm injuries.
The 27-year-old righty then began the 2017 season on the DL with a back injury, and he has posted a 3.43 ERA and 1.18 WHIP with 94 strikeouts in 97 innings across 16 starts since returning to action.
His nightmarish 2016 campaign was a far cry from a 2015 season that saw him go 14-7 with a 2.73 ERA, 1.08 WHIP and 169 strikeouts en route to finishing third in American League Cy Young Award voting.
Big things were expected out of Gray in 2016 after a three-year stretch where he went 33-20 with a 2.88 ERA, but his struggles were a microcosm of an A's team that went a disappointing 69-93 and finished last in the AL West.
Gray is under team control and arbitration eligible for two more years, which was seemingly a good fit for the A's, but they decided to go even younger.
Oakland is in the midst of another rebuild. While Gray is coming off the worst season of his career, the A's landed a solid return in exchange for the former All-Star.
The Athletics went against conventional wisdom by selling low on Gray, but it could turn out to be a savvy move if he is unable to regain the form he displayed in his first three seasons.
New York is banking on the idea that injuries rather than true regression contributed to Gray's struggles in 2016. If that turns out to be the case, they scored a massive coup by landing a quality starter in his prime.
The Yankees have a deep, dangerous lineup and a strong bullpen, but their starting rotation has been a question mark all season long.
Adding Gray goes a long way toward easing concerns, as he and Luis Severino should form a dynamic combination at the top of their pitching staff.
There is still uncertainty elsewhere in the rotation, but the Yanks are now a more dangerous team and bigger threat to do damage in October.

The Toronto Blue Jays have traded starting pitcher Francisco Liriano to the Houston Astros.
Toronto confirmed the deal, adding it received outfielder Nori Aoki and a minor league player will be sent to Toronto as part of the trade.
Shi Davidi of Sportsnet first reported the deal.
Liriano is in the final season of a three-year, $39 million deal he originally signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in December 2014. Pittsburgh traded him to the Blue Jays last August, and he posted a 2.92 ERA with 52 strikeouts in 49.1 innings to help Toronto reach the postseason for the second straight year.
This season has been a struggle for the 33-year-old. He recorded just one out in his first start of 2017 against the Tampa Bay Rays on April 7, allowing five runs on three hits and four walks. In 18 games overall, the right-hander has a 5.88 ERA with 91 hits allowed, 43 walks and 74 strikeouts in 82.2 innings.
Despite Liriano's poor performance so far this season, he has proved capable of turning things around quickly. He showed that last year after being acquired by the Blue Jays and did it when he first joined the Pirates four years ago.
He posted a 5.34 ERA with the Minnesota Twins and Chicago White Sox in 2012 but then signed with the Pirates, posted a 3.02 ERA in the 2013 regular season and started the NL Wild Card Game against the Cincinnati Reds.
The Astros will hope for another surprise turnaround from Liriano as they look to continue their dominant season atop the American League. Liriano will join a starting rotation that has the fifth-best ERA in baseball (3.97), anchored by Dallas Keuchel and his 1.94 ERA.
For all of Liriano's flaws this season, he remains a pitcher capable of missing bats. If he can avoid giving up as much contact as he has so far, he will be an underrated trade acquisition and significant boost to Houston's pitching staff for the stretch run.

After more than a decade in exile facing scorn from fans who believe he cost the Chicago Cubs a World Series, Steve Bartman will receive a championship ring from the club.
The Cubs announced Monday they will give Bartman a 2016 championship ring as a gift from the franchise and the Ricketts family.
"On behalf of the entire Chicago Cubs organization, we are honored to present a 2016 World Series Championship Ring to Mr. Steve Bartman," the Cubs said in a statement. "We hope this provides closure on an unfortunate chapter of the story that has perpetuated throughout our quest to win a long-awaited World Series.
"While no gesture can fully lift the public burden he has endured for more than a decade, we felt it was important Steve knows he has been and continues to be fully embraced by this organization. After all he has sacrificed, we are proud to recognize Steve Bartman with this gift today."
Darren Rovell of ESPN shared an image of Bartman's ring:
Steve Bartman's World Series Cubs ring https://t.co/HhCFS4hLnD
Bartman gained infamy in October 2003 during Game 6 of the National League Championship Series, which the Cubs led 3-2. The longtime Cubs fan unwittingly interfered with outfielder Moises Alou's attempt to catch a foul ball in the eighth inning as Chicago held a 3-0 lead in the game. The Cubs would surrender that lead and later lose the series, and Bartman became nearly the sole source of blame for angered fans.
Bartman dropped off the social map in the following years, as virtually every attempt to contact him or his family was unsuccessful. ESPN's 30 for 30 series documented the aftermath of the incident in Catching Hell, which also drew parallels to Bill Buckner's error in the 1986 World Series.
Bartman, like Buckner, became a sympathetic figure to many inside and out of Chicago—especially once the Cubs ended the so-called "curse" by winning the 2016 World Series.
"Although I do not consider myself worthy of such an honor, I am deeply moved and sincerely grateful to receive an official Chicago Cubs 2016 World Series Championship ring," Bartman said in a statement. "I am fully aware of the historical significance and appreciate the symbolism the ring represents on multiple levels. My family and I will cherish it for generations.
"Most meaningful is the genuine outreach from the Ricketts family, on behalf of the Cubs organization and fans, signifying to me that I am welcomed back into the Cubs family and have their support going forward. I am relieved and hopeful that the saga of the 2003 foul ball incident surrounding my family and me is finally over."
Bartman said he hopes the gesture "will be the start of an important healing and reconciliation process for all involved." He added he will not be giving any further statements on the matter or conducting interviews.

The Baltimore Orioles are in discussions with at least three teams regarding a trade for closer Zach Britton and are asking for an elite prospect in exchange.
ESPN's Buster Olney reported a source said he would be "shocked" if Britton is not traded before the 4 p.m. ET deadline. Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports identified the Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston Astros and Cleveland Indians as potential suitors but said the Orioles won't move him unless they get a "top, top guy" in return.
Britton, 29, has appeared in only 19 games this season due to injury. He has converted all eight of his save opportunities but has posted a 3.32 ERA and 1.74 WHIP while only striking out 15 batters in his 19 innings of work.
A two-time All-Star, Britton has been the subject of trade rumors since he returned from a DL stint earlier this month.
"I've been here plenty of times now. I understand that the play on the field is the most important thing, and there's a lot of things now with social media and things get out there that aren't necessarily true, so you go with it, you don't get sucked into it," Britton told reporters. "A lot of the times it can affect the things that you do out on the field if you get wrapped up in it. So I'm going to avoid it until something happens or doesn't happen and move on."
Britton has spent his entire MLB career with the Orioles, finding a home in the bullpen after years of injury and performance-related struggles as a starter. He recorded 120 saves in 128 chances from 2014 to 2016, including a 2016 season that ranks among the best for a reliever in history.
Britton converted all 47 of his save opportunities last season while posting an 0.54 ERA and 0.84 WHIP on his way to his first Mariano Rivera Award as the American League's best reliever.
The Astros, who need help in their bullpen, appear to be the favorites. Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported Houston has a deal "close," though it's unclear what the team would be giving up.
The Astros rank 22nd in bullpen ERA, perhaps their only weakness in a brilliant 2017 season.

An unidentified woman provided a sworn statement alleging she had sex with Pete Rose before turning 16 as part of an ongoing defamation lawsuit the former MLB player filed against John Dowd.
On Monday, Craig Calcaterra of NBC Sports provided details of the statement and noted the alleged act, which occurred in the 1970s, would be considered statutory rape, though the statute of limitations has passed. The report notes Rose "acknowledges" the relationship but said he thought she was 16.
Rose originally filed the suit against Dowd in July 2016.
Randy Miller of NJ Advance Media reported the lawsuit was based on statements the former federal prosecutor, whose probe into Rose's betting on baseball led to his lifetime ban by MLB, made about Rose allegedly having an associate chase down girls “ages 12 to 14” for him during spring training.
The complaint filed on Rose's behalf said the longtime Cincinnati Reds star "seeks judgment in an amount to be determined by a jury at trial, but which amount exceeds the jurisdictional minimum of $75,000 exclusive of interest and costs," per Miller.
Rose played 24 years in the major leagues with the Reds, Philadelphia Phillies and Montreal Expos before retiring in 1986. He also had a seven-year stint as the Reds' manager starting in 1984, part of which saw him serve as a player-manager.
Calcaterra pointed out the three-time World Series champion's lawsuit against Dowd has spent the past year in the discovery and preliminary motions stage.

Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Justin Verlander and outfielder Justin Upton are expected to remain with the organization through MLB's non-waiver trade deadline at 4 p.m. ET unless there's a late turn of events.
On Monday, Jon Morosi‏ of the MLB Network reported there are no "active trade talks" involving the longtime Tigers ace with only a handful of hours before the deadline. Meanwhile, Bob Nightengale of USA Today noted the two stars are no longer on the block, with Detroit switching its focus to potential offseason deals.
The Tigers did make one major deal before the deadline. They sent relief pitcher Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila to the Chicago Cubs late Sunday night in exchange for prospects Jeimer Candelario and Isaac Paredes, per Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press.
Although that deal seemed like a possible signal Detroit's front office might be getting prepared for a complete rebuild, which would have included dealing Verlander and Upton before the deadline, it sounds like the franchise will wait until the winter to make a final decision.
The 34-year-old American League Cy Young Award winner bolstered his stock with six shutout innings against the heavy-hitting Houston Astros on Sunday. His overall numbers this season remain mundane, however, with a 4.29 ERA and 1.44 WHIP across 22 starts.
Chris McCosky of the Detroit News passed along comments Verlander made Sunday about the constant trade chatter in recent weeks.
"The trade deadline can be a crazy thing," he said. "Teams can come out of the woodwork sometimes. Or something gets reignited that hadn't been there. You just never know. I just tried to keep it status quo the whole time and try not to pay too much attention to it."
Upton is putting together one of the best seasons of his 11-year career with a .281/.372/.511 triple-slash line, 17 home runs and 10 stolen bases in 97 games. His current .883 OPS would be the third-highest mark since arriving to the big leagues with the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2007.
Their contracts presented an additional hurdle, though. Verlander is scheduled to make $28 million through 2019 with a vested option for 2020, while Upton is making $22.125 million per season with an out clause after this season, per Spotrac.
Ultimately, it wouldn't be a surprise to see a World Series contender make one more run at one of the Tigers' stars before the deadline passes this afternoon. That said, the Tigers seem content holding on to those assets until the winter as things stand right now.

The New York Yankees remain frontrunners to land Oakland Athletics starting pitcher Sonny Gray, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, though the Atlanta Braves have also reportedly been in contact with Oakland.
Heyman also broke down what each team could potentially offer in a trade:
braves have great pitching prospects for potential gray deal but yanks are better match due to a's cf/positional needs. atl wont deal acuna.
Heyman added that the Chicago Cubs are also in on Gray, though the price may be "too steep" for their liking.
But all accounts continue to favor the Yankees to land Gray's services. Joel Sherman of the New York Post reported that an "involved person says Yankees have 'pieces to make it work' on Gray trade. Teams continue to talk. Will Athletics agree about those pieces?"
And Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com added, "Yankees and Athletics are 'close enough to get over the hump' today on a Gray deal, says source. Still gonna take some compromise."
Sweeny Murti of WFAN gave insight into the state of talks and the names being discussed in talks between the Yankees and A's:
A's came off Frazier/Torres package and asked for Florial/Mateo package + more. #Yankees will not make that deal either. 4 hours to go.
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com later reported it "looks like" Gray will either go to the Yankees before the deadline or remain in Oakland. Feinsand noted New York has the best offer on the table, but Oakland could wait until the winter to once again shop Gray.
Gray, 27, remains the biggest name being floated on the market alongside Texas Rangers' ace Yu Darvish. While Darvish is a free agent after the season, however, Gray is under club control through the 2019 season, giving him added value since there isn't the risk of giving up major assets for a late-summer rental.
And Gray has been very solid once again this season, going 6-5 with a 3.43 ERA and 1.18 WHIP. For a team like New York that is set up to both compete this year and in the near future given its young core, adding a player like Gray would make a lot of sense.

The Texas Rangers are reportedly "confident" they will trade ace Yu Darvish by Monday's 4 p.m. ET non-waiver trade deadline, with four teams in pursuit of the All-Star.
Bob Nightengale of USA Today reported the New York Yankees, Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston Astros and Cleveland Indians have been in negotiations with Texas.
However, Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports later added it's "increasingly harder to see" Darvish landing in Los Angeles, saying the teams "simply aren't matching up."
Darvish, 30, is 6-9 with a 4.01 ERA and 1.17 WHIP in 2017. The righty has struck out 148 batters in 137 innings and has been unlucky on a Texas team that's struggling to stay above the .500 mark.
While his ERA is disconcerting, Darvish owes a chunk of that to two miserable starts over the last month. He allowed seven runs in 4.1 innings in a July 4 loss to the Boston Red Sox and was nailed for 10 earned in 3.2 innings in a July 26 shellacking by the Miami Marlins. Those two starts have raised Darvish's ERA by nearly a full run over the last month.
Darvish had been struggling with tipping pitches, which made it easier for the Marlins to know when a fastball or breaking ball was coming, according to Passan. Darvish later told reporters that Passan's report helped him make adjustments, though he is yet to start since the Miami debacle.
Wherever he makes his next start, Darvish will be going over the 22-start mark for the first time since the 2013 season. Tommy John surgery and its subsequent recovery cost him all of 2015 and part of 2016, and injuries limited him to 22 starts in 2014.
Darvish will head into unrestricted free agency for the first time this winter, so teams that may acquire him know he could be a rental.
Cleveland and Houston are unlikely to sign him to a long-term contract should the Rangers trade him there. The teams ranked 17th and 18th, respectively, in opening day payroll this season and aren't known to make big free-agent splashes. New York and Los Angeles, meanwhile, have the financial wherewithal and big market that could appeal to Darvish on a new contract.
Either way, he may have pitched his last game as a Ranger.

The New York Mets have traded closer Addison Reed to the Boston Red Sox.
The Red Sox confirmed the deal prior to Monday's trade deadline, adding they parted ways with minor league pitchers Jamie Callahan, Gerson Bautista and Steve Nogosek.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports first reported the trade.
Injuries damaged the Mets' hopes of contention in 2017. Key players like Yoenis Cespedes, Matt Harvey, Zack Wheeler, Neil Walker, Noah Syndergaard and David Wright have all had at least one stint on the disabled list.
Reed was one of the few bright spots as New York's season fell apart. He took over as closer in place of the injured Jeurys Familia in May and has posted a 2.57 ERA with 48 strikeouts in 49.0 innings.
With Reed due to become a free agent at the end of this season, it made no sense for the Mets to keep him. Relievers are always in high demand at the trade deadline, and the 28-year-old has played at a high level since being acquired by New York in 2015.  
Per FanGraphs, Reed's 8.0 strikeout-to-walk ratio ranks sixth among all Major League Baseball relievers. He has experience as a full-time closer dating back to the first three full seasons of his career with the Chicago White Sox and Arizona Diamondbacks, and he has shown the ability to pitch high-leverage innings before the ninth.  
As the Red Sox look to make a playoff push over the regular season's final months, Reed will help solidify their bullpen and give manager John Farrell more options to play with to ease the burden on his current group of relievers.  

The MLB non-waiver trade deadline is just hours away as teams have until 4 p.m. ET on Monday to strike last-minute deals.
A few big names still remain on the trading block, and we're bound to see at least one big move before the day ends.
Here's a look at the latest chatter surrounding three top pitchers:
      
Sonny Gray
According to Joel Sherman of the New York Post, Oakland Athletics starting pitcher Sonny Gray remains the New York Yankees' No. 1 target as the deadline nears:
Hearing #Yankees not pushing on Darvish, Verlnder's 18-19 too expensive. Seems like either Gray or nothing to boost rotation. #Athletics
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reports that the two sides didn't get far on Sunday but that a transaction could happen:
yankees &amp; a's didn't make too much progress today, but the sides remain not too far from a deal. still seen as more likely than not.
Expect a deal to get done. Gray, who has a 3.43 ERA this season, would be a huge boost to the Yankees' rotation. Although the starters have gotten the job done for the most part, they have been inconsistent at times.
Gray has been consistent in his last six games, pitching to the tune of a 1.37 ERA, per Baseball Reference. His "worst" outing was against the Chicago White Sox during that span, as he went six innings and allowed two earned runs while striking out five.
Although Gray would be moving from the cavern that is Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum to Yankee Stadium, where routine pop flies can become cheap home runs, he should still find success in pinstripes given his track record this year.
      
Yu Darvish
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported some interesting news on Yu Darvish on early Monday morning.
For days, it seemed like the Los Angeles Dodgers were the No. 1 contender for the Texas Rangers ace.
However, that doesn't seem to be the case anymore, per Rosenthal: "The Dodgers and Yankees reportedly are the teams hottest on Darvish, and the Rangers can send him to either without restriction. Both clubs, while fluid in trade discussions, appear to be placing a higher priority on other pursuits."
Rosenthal went on to mention that L.A. is focusing more on acquiring Baltimore Orioles closer Zach Britton. He also noted the Dodgers' decision to not include top pitching prospect Walker Buehler in a deal is a sticking point, as Texas prefers to land him over some other players in L.A.'s farm system.
Therefore, another team could sneak in and land Darvish, who is a free agent after this season. Jon Morosi of Fox Sports and MLB Network mentioned the Cleveland Indians could be that team:
Source: #Indians have spoken with the #Rangers about Yu Darvish. Credit to @Evan_P_Grant for mentioning possibility earlier today. @MLB
However, Morosi also noted Darvish can block a trade to Cleveland:
Key consideration: #Indians among teams to which Yu Darvish can block a trade, as first reported by @Ken_Rosenthal. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Expect Darvish to head somewhere before the end of the day, but given the recent news, it's anyone's guess as to where that will be.
If the Yankees are focusing on Gray, and if the Dodgers don't want to deal their top prospect, and if Darvish doesn't want to go to Cleveland, then perhaps a fourth mystery team is in play.
      
Zach Britton
According to Buster Olney of ESPN, it's a coin flip as to whether Zach Britton gets dealt before the deadline:
One evaluator puts the odds of the Orioles moving Zach Britton at 50-50. He's the most coveted reliever right now, b/c of potential impact.
Jon Heyman noted that three teams are vying for Britton and that Baltimore wants a big return:
with cubs sneaking in to grab wilson, still have dodgers, astros, nats eying britton. o's want big (chapman/miller like) return. could keep.
Britton is a two-time All-Star who had a 0.54 ERA last season. From 2014-2016, that ERA was 1.38. He's a two-time All-Star and one of the (if not the) best relievers in the game when he is healthy.
However, Britton has dealt with a forearm strain this year that has cost him two months of the season, and he's working his way back into form right now. His 3.32 ERA this year is his worst mark since 2013, but expect him to return to his old self sooner rather than later.
Therefore, the Baltimore Orioles should get a good return on Britton, even if there are question marks surrounding this season.
Given the amount of playoff contenders that need bullpen help, the guess here is that a deal gets done before the deadline.

A never-ceasing supply of information has bombarded MLB fans before Monday's non-waiver trade deadline. Some rumors will prepare onlookers for upcoming moves. Others are just a load of malarkey.
Any hot-stove savant must study the landscape carefully to sniff out the baseless gossip from the noteworthy nuggets. This goes beyond the obvious first step of not falling for a phony Twitter account.
Following the right sources is crucial. So is staying informed and reading between the lines instead of taking one sentence out of context.
The rumor mill was in overdrive during the weekend. Friday's scoop turned moot Saturday, and Sunday spun an entirely different tale. While nobody should take rumors for gospel, some trade gossip will enhance fans' understanding of teams' interests and ongoing negotiations.
Let's look at some of baseball's recent rumors to decipher the telling tidbits from the red herrings.

The Los Angeles Dodgers are going to make the playoffs. They can exceed 100 wins by playing .500 ball the rest of the way, leading FanGraphs to give them a 100 percent postseason probability.
Despite their routine playoff visits, they have not won a World Series or National League pennant since 1988. They have ample financial and prospect capital to add a front-line starter and/or reliever with October in mind.
Nevertheless, MLB.com's Mark Feinsand said the juggernaut is "bargain hunting" on players who won't cost any premier prospects. He later labeled relievers as their main interest. Yet Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal identified Yu Darvish, Sonny Gray and Zach Britton—the three available players who would cost the most—as their primary targets.
Teams with weaknesses don't win 19 of 21 games, so a blockbuster isn't vital to their title chances. Discount shopping, however, makes little sense when nothing on the clearance bins would represent a worthwhile upgrade.
Moving one of Walker Buehler, Yadier Alvarez, Alex Verdugo or Willie Calhoun wouldn't damage the future of a franchise led by Corey Seager and Cody Bellinger. Although they don't need Darvish to replace an injured Clayton Kershaw in August, having both in October would offer a luxury for a squad with several injury-prone starters.
No organization wants to trade top prospects, but the stars are aligned for the dominant Dodgers to make a major move.
B.S. Meter: Medium
Prediction: Dodgers trade for Darvish and a mid-tier reliever.

Darvish makes the most sense for the Dodgers, who are the best fit for a short-term ace. With the Texas Rangers reportedly ready to sell, they make a perfect match.
According to the Fort Worth Star-Telegram's Jeff Wilson, the Rangers "are more sold than ever" on flipping Darvish before his contract expires at the end of the year. He identified the Dodgers and New York Yankees as the top two landing spots.
MLB.com's TR Sullivan added a third mystery team to the mix. The Dallas Morning News' Evan Grant speculated on the Cleveland Indians being the unknown club making a late push for the 30-year-old, who sports a career 3.42 ERA. Fox Sports' Jon Morosi supported Grant's suspicion.
Any teams trying to land Darvish can thank the Baltimore Orioles, who beat the Rangers in six of seven second-half encounters. Texas trails the Kansas City Royals by 5.5 games for the final wild-card spot, so expect some contender to snag a front-line starter Monday.
For a team supposedly focused on long-term success, renting Darvish would be a short-sighted way for the Yankees to capitalize on their stacked farm system. ESPN.com's Buster Olney said they aren't too invested in talks with Texas.
Keep an eye on Cleveland, but the Dodgers look like the favorites to bring Darvish on board.
B.S. Meter: Low
Prediction: Rangers trade Darvish to Dodgers and try to bring him back as a free agent.

A popular source of trade chatter, Justin Verlander probably isn't going anywhere.
Acording to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, the 34-year-old ace will remain with the Detroit Tigers "barring a...last-second turnabout." A source assigned the move a "low probability" to Rosenthal.
While the Tigers faded from the playoff picture after trading J.D. Martinez to the Arizona Diamondbacks on July 18, a Verlander deal would be tougher to orchestrate. The 2011 American League Cy Young Award and MVP winner will make $28 million in both 2018 and 2019. Since he sports a lackluster 4.29 ERA, buyers will either require salary relief or balk at surrendering any significant talent.
The veteran is gradually rebounding from a rough patch, tallying a 2.25 ERA in his past five starts. If he finishes strong like last year, when he nearly soared to another Cy Young Award, talks should gain traction during the offseason.
It would take a major change of heart from the Tigers or an eager buyer to up that timeline to Monday.
B.S. Meter: Low
Prediction: Verlander stays with the Tigers, but talks resurface in the offseason.

Having fallen to 49-56 with a minus-85 run differential, the Toronto Blue Jays should wave goodbye to any playoff hopes. While they could earnestly start a rebuilding phase by shopping Josh Donaldson, they seem more likely to sell Marco Estrada and Francisco Liriano for whatever value remains.
They have at least opened the door to offers for J.A. Happ, according to Heyman. Yet Heyman said any deal would have 2018 in mind.
If they're looking for short-term assets, why would they trade Happ? Despite taking a step back, he remains a viable starter with a 4.15 ERA. Any team will be hard-pressed to find a free-agent hurler of his caliber for the $13 million he will earn next season.
It sounds like Toronto is giving buyers the opportunity to overpay. The Blue Jays can't delay a complete teardown for much longer, so they should seriously consider all inquiries for someone who submitted a 3.18 ERA last year.
This, however, sounds like no more than lip service so they can say they tried when nobody offers the major league contributors they seek.
B.S. Meter: High
Prediction: Blue Jays don't come close to trading Happ and settle for less next summer.

The Houston Astros, like the Dodgers, are planning for October. Even with Carlos Correa and George Springer sidelined, they won't worry about losing a towering 16-game lead in the American League West.
A month ago, onlookers looked for them to pursue a significant starter, yet the rotation has grown stronger without any acquisitions. Brad Peacock has emerged as an impact arm, and Mike Fiers is on fire. Charlie Morton, Collin McHugh and Dallas Keuchel have all returned from the disabled list, so they have turned their attention to the bullpen.
Long viewed as a logical fit for the Oakland Athletics' Sonny Gray, Rosenthal said the Astros are no longer a serious suitor for his services. They're instead heavily targeting the Baltimore Orioles' Zach Britton, per Heyman and Morosi. Heyman also mentioned the San Diego Padres' Brad Hand as a player of interest.
Houston could use baseball's fourth-best farm system to acquire a late-inning teammate for Chris Devenski and Ken Giles. If it wasn't their top priority before, it should be after placing Will Harris on the disabled list two days after activating him.
Bullpens are essential to postseason success, and Houston could transform a decent unit into a great one by landing any of those marquee southpaws. They're best positioned to pay a high asking price for Britton, who pitched on back-to-back days during the weekend for the first time since returning from the disabled list. 
B.S. Meter: Low
Prediction: Astros acquire Britton.

Hand is a major catch. If no suitor realizes it, the San Diego Padres might keep one of the deadline's top trade targets.
Chatter has spread about Padres general manager A.J. Preller's requesting the moon for his left-handed reliever. Heyman reported that Preller inquired about Gleyber Torres, MLB.com's No. 3 prospect. As one executive told Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan, "I don't think the Dodgers would ask more for [Clayton] Kershaw than A.J. is for Brad Hand."
On Sunday, ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick said there's a gap between San Diego's asking price and what teams are willing to give. He wrote earlier that "offers need to ramp up" for the Padres to move him.
One could take that as Preller's threatening to pull Hand off the block as a bluff. Then again, leverage is the only reason to shop someone in his prime with two years of arbitration remaining.
Was he all that unreasonable to ask for Torres a year after the Cubs sent him to the Yankees to rent Aroldis Chapman? Over the past two years, Hand ranks third in strikeouts and seventh in WAR among relievers. He's an elite option who will pitch for a steep discount through 2019. The arbitration process contains the only people left in baseball who still think saves define bullpen success.
Preller probably dangled him after witnessing the market for Chapman and Andrew Miller last year. Hand was never going to command their costs, but the Padres should stand pat if nobody offers a significant return.
Talks of keeping Hand amount to more than a pure negotiation ploy.
B.S. Meter: Mild
Prediction: Padres keep Hand, who boosts his trade stock with a dominant second half as their closer.

On Saturday night and Sunday morning, multiple reports indicated a high probability of the Yankees acquiring Sonny Gray. By Sunday afternoon, negotiations were said to have hit a wall.
USA Today's Bob Nightengale reported both teams were optimistic over finalizing a swap. A source expressed confidence of their completing a deal, per Olney. 
Later in the day, however, the New York Post's Joel Sherman offered a different prognosis. He wrote that, while the Yankees remain the favorites to land the 27-year-old starter, neither Yankees general manager Brian Cashman nor Athletics VP of baseball operations Billy Beane is certain to budge.
"I think Billy is perfectly willing to go into the winter holding on to Sonny if he doesn't get what he wants," an executive told Sherman.
Gray has two more years under team control, but a high demand for affordable pitching gives Beane the perfect opportunity to bolster his farm system. After a nightmarish 2016, waiting until the offseason is a bet the small-market franchise should be wary of making.
The Yankees, meanwhile, are still seeking an impact arm despite acquiring Jaime Garcia from the Minnesota Twins. Cashman could get Gray without giving up top prospects Torres or Clint Frazier.
Both teams are probably posturing, so expect someone to blink before the deadline.
B.S. Meter: High
Prediction: Yankees and Athletics settle on a last-minute deal for Gray led by infielder Jorge Mateo and outfielder Estevan Florial.
               
Note: All advanced statistics are courtesy of FanGraphs. Salary information obtained via Cot's Baseball Contracts.

We're almost down to the wire, folks. The 2017 MLB trade deadline strikes at 4 p.m. ET on Monday. This means that teams looking to make deals before the non-waiver deadline have mere hours to get things finalized.
There is no shortage of teams looking to bolster their rosters for postseason runs. The question is whether they can get the deals they want done in time to make straight-up trades. Trades can still be made after the deadline, but there is a waiver system involved and things become a whole lot more complicated.
Players dealt after August 31, though, are not eligible to participate in the postseason.
We may see some notable trades this August, but most teams will be looking to trade now. With this in mind—and the clock ticking down its final hours—let's dig into the latest pre-deadline buzz.
           
Yu Darvish
Texas Rangers pitcher Yu Darvish is one of the hottest names on the trade market, and for good reason. He's a serviceable starter who is in the final year of his contract. The Texas Rangers have plenty of reason to deal him before the deadline while they can still get something in return.
No, Darvish hasn't had the best season of his career, and he was shelled for 10 runs in his last start against the Miami Marlins. However, for a contending team looking for a short-term rental and little financial commitment, he's a perfect candidate. 
Plus, as Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan recently pointed out, Darvish's latest struggles were the product of him accidentally tipping his pitches:
Sources: Yu Darvish was tipping his pitches in his last start. Goes a long way to explaining why he allowed 10 runs, the most in his career.
With a little focus, perhaps Darvish can get closer to his career 3.42 ERA than the 4.01 ERA he has presented this season.
One team that has shown interest in Darvish leading up to the deadline is the Los Angeles Dodgers. As Jon Morosi of the MLB Network pointed out, he isn't the only pitcher on the team's radar:
Sources: #Dodgers increasingly confident they will acquire 1 of Yu Darvish, Sonny Gray or Justin Verlander by Monday. @MLB @MLBNetwork
However, Darvish does perhaps make the most sense for the Dodgers. This is a team looking to temporarily replace Clayton Kershaw in the starting rotation. L.A. could use Darvish for a few starts, carry him into the postseason as depth and part ways with him in the offseason.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts has even gone out of his way to praise Darvish, per Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times:
Roberts: "Every team in baseball would want Yu Darvish .. It's a fact we would be better with him."
Here's the problem, though. L.A. simply might not be willing to part with enough to get a deal for Darvish done. According to Mark Feinsand of MLB.com, the Rangers haven't been willing to make their top prospects available as part of trade offers:
Source: Dodgers are "bargain hunting" and appear unwilling to part with any top prospects. Would certainly impact their chances at Darvish.
Gerry Fraley of the Dallas Morning News reported the Rangers are unhappy with the offers they have received—presumably including those from L.A.:
"The Rangers are trying to up the ante for right-hander Yu Darvish. An official with another major-league club said on Sunday that the Rangers are disappointed in the quality of offers received so far. They have contacted smaller-market clubs such as Cleveland to tell them their best might be good enough."
While Cleveland Indians fans might love to see Darvish enter the fold, there's a catch. According to Ken Rosenthal of FoxSports.com, Cleveland is one of the teams on the player's no-trade list:
Yu Darvish’s 10-team no-trade list, per sources: BAL, BOS, CHC, CLE, COL, CWS, DET, OAK, PIT, TOR. Free to go to LAD, NYY, HOU, all others.
If Texas cannot convince Darvish to waive his limited no-trade clause for a team such as the Indians, the Rangers may have to take what they can get on the market or play out the rest of the season with Darvish on board.
                 
Justin Verlander
Detroit Tigers mainstay Justin Verlander has also had his name floated around leading up to the trade deadline. There are obstacles for the team when it actually comes to moving him, though.
The most immediate is the fact Verlander possesses a no-trade clause in his contract.
"I have control over my own destiny," Verlander said, per Evan Woodbery of Mlive.com.
The second obstacle is the hefty financial implications of his contract. He's due to earn $28 million in each of the next two seasons, plus the remainder of this year's $28 million salary and a $22 million vesting option in 2020. 
This is a pretty hefty commitment for a guy who isn't having the best season of his career and is 34 years old. For a team like the Dodgers, who may not want to invest long term, Verlander doesn't make sense.
In reality, Verlander might not make sense for a lot of teams, and the growing perception is that teams aren't going to deal for him.
"Rival teams simply want no part of a contract that pays Verlander $28 million per year through 2019, people familiar with the situation say," FanRag Sports baseball writer Jon Heyman recently noted.
A surprise deal could obviously come through, but it's looking increasingly likely Verlander will stay put for at least the remainder of the season.
             
Sonny Gray
Like the Dodgers, the New York Yankees have been looking to buy heading into the deadline and are interested in adding to their pitching staff.
The Yankees recently acquired pitcher Jaime Garcia from the Minnesota Twins and have been in talks with the Oakland A's about Sonny Gray—one of the pitchers the Dodgers have also shown interest in.
The problem, though, is that the Yankees and the A's have differing opinions on what should be given in compensation for Gray in a trade. The two sides have struggled to come together, as Rosenthal recently explained:
"The Athletics view Sonny Gray one way. The Yankees view him another. But both teams need to complete this trade more than they care to admit, and the best guess is that it will happen.
"I'm not buying that the Athletics will hold Gray and carry him into the winter; Gray currently is healthy, and his value might never be higher."
Talks continued into Sunday night between the two teams but, as USA Today's Bob Klapisch reported, there was no real progress:
Talks for Sonny Gray will apparently go down to the wire. Told “zero progress” today between #Yankees and #A’s. Both sides playing chicken.
Talks between the Yankees and the A's will likely go down to the wire, unless another team slips into the discussion and offers up more than New York is willing to. Considering the team's reluctance to part with top prospects, that team probably won't be the Dodgers, but ruling even them out would be foolish.

Fact: Adrian Beltre of the Texas Rangers became the 31st player in MLB history to reach 3,000 hits on Sunday with a fourth-inning double off of Baltimore Orioles pitcher Wade Miley. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

The Detroit Tigers agreed Sunday to trade relief pitcher Justin Wilson and Alex Avila to the Chicago Cubs for Jeimer Candelario, Isaac Paredes and a player to be named later or cash, according to Jon Heyman of FanRang Sports.
Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press first reported the details of the trade, and Jon Morosi of the MLB Network later reported the trade was complete after medical reviews.
Morosi offered up an interesting stat regarding Avila:
Al Avila becoming first @MLB GM in nearly 50 years to trade his son, per @MLB_PR and @MLBNetwork Research.
Avila is coming off a few down years but has performed well in 2017, posting a .271/.392/.472 slash line. The left-handed hitter could provide valuable depth behind Willson Contreras, which has been a problem for the Cubs since trading Miguel Montero.
With 34 games of playoff experience, he should also fit in well as the Cubs try to defend their World Series title.
Of course, Wilson is the biggest highlight of the trade after accumulating a 2.68 ERA and 0.94 WHIP across 42 appearances so far this season.
His initial year in Detroit wasn't quite as strong. The 29-year-old reliever posted a 4.14 ERA and 1.33 WHIP across 66 appearances in 2016. His career numbers entering the year were a bit more favorable with a 3.28 ERA and 1.23 WHIP across his first five years in the majors.
Despite the lack of shutdown statistics, the California native still became a hot commodity during the offseason as contenders around MLB scoured both the free-agent and trade markets searching for ways to upgrade their bullpen.
Wilson became more valuable through that supply-and-demand lens because he's a lefty with the ability to throw his fastball in the mid-90s. Add in the fact he struck out 258 batters in the same number of career innings entering 2017, and his high trade stock was more understandable.
It wasn't just rumors about his status, either. Evan Woodbery of MLive.com noted Tigers general manager Al Avila confirmed the widespread buzz in early December.
"The highest level of interest has been on Justin Wilson," he said.
That was quite a statement considering some of the marquee players on Detroit's roster. In addition, it further illustrated the effort around baseball to bolster the relief corps after a 2016 postseason where the Chicago Cubs and Cleveland Indians used their bullpens extensively to reach the World Series.
Now Wilson is slated to join the reigning champions as Theo Epstein and his staff attempt to strike gold on another talented arm that hasn't peaked quite yet. He'll join the back end of a Cubs bullpen that already features Wade Davis, Koji Uehara and Carl Edwards Jr.
It's hard to say exactly how manager Joe Maddon will utilize the group because Wilson isn't a typical lefty. He utilizes a cutter, which helps explain why left-handed hitters registered a .772 OPS against him in 2016 compared to a .667 mark by righties, a trend that's continued this year.
The Cubs may end up using Davis as a traditional closer, while they rely on Uehara, Edwards and Wilson interchangeably in other high-leverage situations. Perhaps there will be more multi-inning outings paired with additional rest thanks to the depth as well.
Ultimately, Wilson doesn't have the same track record as some of the high-profile relievers around the league. But he won't cost nearly as much and still has some untapped potential at age 29.

Kyle Farmer got quite a introduction to the majors Sunday night, hitting a walk-off double in his first career at-bat.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network summed up the situation:
Kyle Farmer with a walk-off hit in his first @MLB at-bat, because these are the 2017 @Dodgers.
The Dodgers trailed 2-1 in the 11th inning, but his two-run double handed Los Angeles the 3-2 victory over the rival San Francisco Giants at Dodger Stadium.
The catcher has been with the team since being promoted Friday, but he hadn't seen action until extra innings Sunday night. After going down 0-2 in the count, he worked it full before hitting a double to right field off Albert Suarez.
MLB captured the game-winning hit and ensuing celebration:
.@Kfarm17’s first big-league at-bat?

A #walkoff hit to give the @Dodgers a comeback win in the 11th - their EIGHTH straight. NBD! https://t.co/fIRZpCacRd
Farmer is only considered the No. 29 prospect in the Dodgers organization by MLB.com, but he had been crushing the ball in the minors. In 81 games between Double-A and Triple-A, the 26-year-old hit .326 with nine home runs and 20 doubles.
With Yasmani Grandal and Austin Barnes also on the roster, it might be difficult to find playing time for the young catcher, but the clutch performance likely earned him more at-bats.
Meanwhile, the Dodgers continue to dominate the National League, improving to 74-31 with the win. They currently hold a 14-game lead in the National League West and are 11 games better than anyone else in the NL.

The Chicago Cubs are reportedly set to upgrade the roster for the playoff push with the additions of reliever Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila.
Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported a deal was near, and according to Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press, the Detroit Tigers would receive Jeimer Candelario, Isaac Paredes and either a player to be named later or cash in return for the deal.
Wilson has developed into a valuable reliever this season, saving 13 games for the Tigers while posting a 2.68 ERA. He also has 55 strikeouts in 40.1 innings pitched, improving his strikeouts per nine innings as he has in each of the last four years.
This led to plenty of interest on the trade market before Monday's non-waiver deadline.
According to Mark Feinsand of MLB.com, the Houston Astros were considered a favorite for the lefty earlier Sunday night. Bob Nightengale of USA Today reported the Los Angeles Dodgers were involved in a bidding war against the Cubs.
Chicago appears to have won the race, also adding a valuable catcher in Avila. The left-hander is in the midst of his best season since he was an All-Star in 2011, currently hitting .271 with a .392 on-base percentage and 11 home runs.
Of course, it will cost a lot to complete this deal, with the Cubs parting with an elite prospect in Candelario. According to MLB.com, the corner infielder was the top player in the organization, currently hitting .266 with 12 home runs in Triple-A.
Adding in an 18-year-old shortstop in Paredes and this appears to be a solid deal for both sides.

The Texas Rangers announced they traded catcher Jonathan Lucroy to the Colorado Rockies Sunday for a player to be named later.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports first reported the news.
Joel Sherman of the New York Post broke down why the Rockies needed Lucroy, as well as how far his value fell in the span of a year:
#Rockies have fewest HRs by catchers in MLB and lowest OPS in NL (.617)
Yr ago #Rangers gave up 2 of their best prospects, Ortiz/Brinson, to land Jeffress/Lucroy. Now Lucroy gets player to be named from #rockies
Lucroy, 31, had a career year in 2016, hitting .292 with 24 home runs and 81 RBI for the Milwaukee Brewers and the Rangers. He's struggled in 2017, however, hitting just .242 with four homers and 27 RBI heading into Sunday, making him expendable for a Texas team still on the outside looking in at the postseason race.
It's also the second season in a row that has Lucroy has been traded.
While Lucroy has struggled this season, he has generally been a source of decent power from the catcher position. Colorado will be banking on him rediscovering some of his pop from seasons past. If he can get hot, he could bolster the team's lineup and be one of the sneakier acquisitions before the trade deadline.
As for the Rockies, they continued their busy trade season after also adding reliever Pat Neshek in a trade with the Phillies. While Colorado likely won't catch the Los Angeles Dodgers in the AL West, it remains one of the front-runners to earn a wild-card bid.
If Lucroy starts raking, that pursuit becomes all the more attainable.

The Major League Baseball Players Alumni Association announced Sunday that three-time All-Star Lee May died at the age of 74.
May spent time with the Cincinnati Reds, Houston Astros, Baltimore Orioles and Kansas City Royals during his 18-year career, hitting 354 home runs from 1965-82.
A couple of former major leaguers had some nice words to say about the Big Bopper:
So sorry to hear of the passing of former teammate Lee May. A superb sense of dry humor was Lee's trademark. A feared slugger. #RIPBIGBOPPER
RIP Lee May. Great player, great friend and great person. #Reds #Orioles #Astros #Royals #MLB
May was one of the most consistent home run hitters of his era, hitting at least 20 home runs in 11 straight seasons. His best years came with the Reds from 1969-71 when he crushed 111 home runs and drove in 302 runs during that stretch.
He went to the World Series twice, once with Cincinnati and once with Baltimore, but never earned a ring.
Per Mike Klingaman of the Baltimore Sun, May died Saturday of heart disease.
Seriously? Steve Pearce hits second walk-off grand slam in the last four days: https://t.co/P7ilFI1XWa
Earlier this week, Toronto Blue Jays left fielder Steve Pearce hit a walk-off grand slam in the bottom of the 10th inning to clinch an 8-4 victory against the Oakland Athletics.
On Sunday, he repeated the feat against the Los Angeles Angels.
With the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning, Pearce sent a pitch over the left field wall for the second time in four days to give the Blue Jays an 11-10 victory over the Angels. 
Pearce's slam capped Toronto's furious seven-run rally in the ninth inning, the biggest final-inning comeback in franchise history. 

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie spoke with a fan who was allegedly heckling him during the Milwaukee Brewers' game against the Chicago Cubs on Sunday.
Ben Hutchison of WISN 12 News in Milwaukee shared a video of the encounter. When asked what Christie had said, the Cubs fan responded the governor had asked him if he "wanted to act like a big shot":
At #Cubs #Brewers game. #ChrisChristie was getting razzed by fans, so he got in the face of one of them. 5:30 on @WISN12News https://t.co/sx8euMgFy2
Earlier this month, Christie received a frosty reception from fans in Citi Field when he caught a foul ball during the New York Mets' 5-0 defeat to the St. Louis Cardinals on July 18.
According to the Associated Press' Rich Rovito, Christie also attended the Brewers' 2-1 win over the Cubs Friday. Rovito noted Christie's son, Andrew, works in the Brewers' baseball operations department.
Christie is serving out his second term as New Jersey's governor until January 2018, when the state's constitution prevents him from running for a third consecutive term.
Potentially transitioning to a new career after he leaves elected office, Christie hosted a sports-talk radio show on New York City's WFAN on July 10.

The New York Yankees and Oakland Athletics have reportedly made "zero progress" on their trade discussions regarding A's ace Sonny Gray.
Bob Klapisch of the Bergen Record reported the potential deal could come down to the trade deadline wire.
The Yankees have focused for weeks on acquiring Gray, as they hope to bolster the front of their rotation for a playoff push.  
Gray, 27, is 6-5 with a 3.43 ERA and 1.18 WHIP this season. He's in his fourth full season with the A's and has bounced back from a miserable 2016 campaign to regain his status among the AL's most promising young starters. The potential prospect haul for Oakland could be considerable, as Gray cannot become a free agent until 2020.
The Athletics pushed Gray's scheduled start from Sunday to Monday night, likely to avoid injury in case of a trade. Buster Olney and Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported Oakland general manager Billy Beane is willing to table Gray trade talks until the offseason if current offers do not improve by Monday's 4 p.m. ET deadline.
The Yankees are said to be unwilling to send outfielder Clint Frazier or infield prospect Gleyber Torres to Oakland in exchange for Gray. 
Perhaps seeing their chances for Gray dwindling, the Yankees acquired Jaime Garcia from the Minnesota Twins over the weekend. Garcia should slot into the back of a New York rotation that has been inconsistent for most of the season. 

The Baseball Hall of Fame welcomed the class of 2017—former players Jeff Bagwell, Ivan "Pudge" Rodriguez and Tim Raines, along with former MLB commissioner Bud Selig and executive John Schuerholz—to Cooperstown on Sunday.
All five received their plaques to be enshrined in the Hall and delivered speeches, starting with former Atlanta Braves and Kansas City Royals general manager Schuerholz, who won a World Series title with each organization.
He shared a funny excerpt from before his executive career, when he was at a two-day baseball tryout and on the second day was asked to time the other players rather than participate on the field.
"The message was delivered," Schuerholz said, per the Associated Press (via USA Today). "I'd better concentrate someplace other than trying to be a professional baseball player. Divine providence. Fate. I truly believe so."
Up next was Jeff Bagwell, who made a point to thank his parents for their role in his upbringing and career, per the AP:
"Mom, you are just the most amazing person in the world. You've been a pillar for me. I can't tell you how much I love you and what you mean to me. My father, Bob. There's something about a dad. You brought me to love this game of baseball. Something my father instilled in me was to never quit. Deep inside, I just never gave up. That drive got me a long way."
It was that drive that allowed Bagwell to become an MVP.
"I tried to do everything well," he said. "I wanted to score for my team and for my other players. I enjoy the stolen bases more than anything else. For a little guy with not much speed, I truly appreciate that. I could help us win in different ways."
Alyson Footer of MLB.com felt Bagwell delivered a fantastic speech:
Jeff Bagwell now has 450 home runs. 449 longballs as a player, and the speech he just gave at the Hall of Fame induction. Excellent.
And his former teammate, Craig Biggio, memorialized his career before Bagwell's speech, per MLB Network:
No one had a better seat for Jeff Bagwell's @baseballhall career than @astros teammate Craig Biggio. #HOFWKND https://t.co/dvBHDcxl09
Following Bagwell was Major League Baseball's prior commissioner, Selig, whose tenure at the helm saw tremendous highs and economic growth but also major lows (the Steroid Era, the 1994 strike that led to the cancellation of the World Series).
"What you've seen here today is a little boy's dreams come true," he said, per the MLB broadcast, adding, "I am humbled."
Fellow Hall of Famer Robin Yount honored the former commissioner before his speech:
Selig's induction invoked complicated feelings for many, however, especially given some of the players from his era that weren't inducted due to their attachment to steroids. Mike Oz of Yahoo Sports summed up that perspective:
Said it in December and I'll say it today: If Bud Selig is a Hall of Famer so are Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens: https://t.co/W2Nk5rzKTp
Pudge Rodriguez was up next and shared a fantastic anecdote from early in his career when he caught Nolan Ryan while the two were teammates with the Texas Rangers. Rodriguez didn't speak much English at the time and Ryan told him that he didn't need to worry about much, to simply put up his fingers to call for a pitch and Ryan would take care of the rest.
Later that season, Ryan lost a no-hitter in the eighth inning after Dave Winfield singled off of him. Following the game, Rodriguez told reporters that Ryan shook him off on that fateful hit.
Ryan responded to reporters by noting that Rodriguez sure had learned English pretty quickly.
Rodriguez also delivered excerpts of his speech in Spanish, including an emotional message to his parents. And he spoke about going from humble beginnings to a place in baseball immortality.
"This is such an incredible honor for me," he said, per the AP. "A little kid from Puerto Rico with a big dream. Never let them take your dream away from you."
He added, "Respect the game, love this game. Sometimes dreams come true. Look at me. I am here on this stage, this special place, and my dream has become a reality. God bless baseball."
Finally there was Raines, who had been on the ballot for a decade and was in his final year of eligibility for election to the Hall of Fame. Many in baseball circles wondered why a player with 2,605 hits, 1,571 runs and 808 stolen bases (fifth all-time) wasn't in the Hall of Fame earlier.
"I've been asked that question for 10 years," he said, per the MLB Network broadcast. "Thank God I don't have to answer that question anymore."
Raines also thanked a number of people in his speech, including sportswriter Jonah Keri, who lobbied for Raines to be inducted into the Hall. As Steve Simmons of the Toronto Star noted, that played a huge role in his induction:
Truth: if it wasn't for @jonahkeri and his non-stop lobbying Tim Raines would not have made the Hall of Fame. Keri changed a lot of minds.
And Raines' appreciation of Keri during his speech ended up being one of the more memorable moments, as Cespedes Family BBQ tweeted:
That shot of Jonah Keri crying during the Rock Raines speech was incredibly cool. What a meaningful moment. That's why sports matters.
He also ribbed Frank Thomas, his former teammate with the Chicago White Sox. He noted that as teammates, with Thomas playing first base and Raines left field, he would always make sure to run toward second base when the pitcher attempted a pickoff move to first.
The implication was that if the runner took off for second, Thomas would have to make a throw and would likely overthrow the shortstop covering the base. So Raines jokingly thanked Thomas for increasing his game awareness as Thomas and the other Hall of Famers in attendance laughed.
It was only fitting, as a side note to the day's events, that the new Hall of Famers delivered their speeches as a future Cooperstown resident, Adrian Beltre, secured his 3,000th hit. On a day about celebrating the game's brightest contributors, Beltre made a bit of history himself.

The newest member of MLB's 3,000-hit club deserves a proper introduction.
Everyone, please welcome Adrian Beltre, who's so much better than he's gotten credit for.
Playing in his 51st game of the season with the Texas Rangers and the 2,771st game of his 20-year major league career, Beltre notched career hit No. 3,000 with a double down the left field line in the fourth inning against the Baltimore Orioles on Sunday.
Here it is, in living color:
No. 3,000. 

#Beltre3k https://t.co/ijGH1cvAPU
With that, the 38-year-old third baseman joined one of Major League Baseball's most exclusive clubs.
If the 3,000-hit club issued actual membership cards, the degree of its exclusivity would be captured in a number emblazoned next to Beltre's name: 31. Prior to Sunday, the club had only 30 members. 
This might as well be Beltre's ticket to Cooperstown.
Only six 3,000-hit club members aren't already in the Hall of Fame: Pete Rose, Rafael Palmeiro, Derek Jeter, Alex Rodriguez, Ichiro Suzuki and Beltre. Rose is officially banned. Palmeiro is virtually banned and is off the ballot to boot. The 3,000-hit club is otherwise free to improve to 29-for-31. Once Jeter, A-Rod, Suzuki and Beltre become eligible, it likely will. 
Of course, one doesn't need a 3,000-hit-club membership to get into Cooperstown.
The Hall of Fame features plaques for dozens of players who fell short, including Babe Ruth, Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and each of the newest inductees: Tim Raines, Jeff Bagwell and Ivan Rodriguez.
These guys made the grade as all-time greats despite not collecting 3,000 hits. And while it's a nice feather in his cap, the same would also be true of Beltre even if he didn't have 3,000 hits.
Jay Jaffe of Sports Illustrated has already made this argument, and he would know. He wrote the book on evaluating Cooperstown worthiness, and he's also the inventor of the go-to stat for the task: JAWS.
That's short for "Jaffe WAR Score System," which combines a player's career wins above replacement with his wins above replacement at his peak. The result is a handy guideline of baseball's brightest stars.
Among third basemen, Beltre shines brighter than all but a few:
This isn't WAR doing a statistical balloon-animal trick and turning a scrub into a superstar.
Beltre has been a heck of a hitter. The .925 OPS he carried into Sunday had boosted his career OPS to a rock-solid .820. And he's now one of only four players with over 3,000 hits, 450 home runs and 600 doubles.
The others? Three more Hall of Famers: Hank Aaron, Stan Musial and Carl Yastrzemski.
Beltre has been a heck of a defender as well. He's the career leader in both defensive runs saved and ultimate zone rating. Not just at third base. At any position.
That's a credit not just to his longevity, but to his ageless playmaking ability. Like so:
Beltre should be a Hall of Famer when his time comes. Not "might be." Not "could be." Just "should be." There's no good argument to the contrary.
If it feels like there should be, that's only because Beltre's 3,000th hit is a rare moment when he's been alone in the spotlight.
Given his place among his contemporaries, that's odd. While wearing the colors of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Seattle Mariners, Boston Red Sox and now the Rangers, Beltre has accumulated more WAR since his rookie year in 1998 than all but two players. He's unquestionably one of his generation's greatest players.
You just wouldn't know it from looking at his hardware.
Those two players ahead of Beltre? Rodriguez and Albert Pujols, who have six MVP awards and 24 All-Star selections between them. Just below Beltre is Chipper Jones, who won an MVP and made eight All-Star teams. Down a couple spots is Miguel Cabrera, who has two MVPs and 11 All-Star selections.
But Beltre himself? Zero MVPs and just four All-Star selections. 
His position is partially to blame. Third base isn't as sexy as, say, shortstop or center field. And over the years, Beltre often hasn't stood out as the hot corner's top star.
Via Baseball Reference, WAR tells the tale:
Early in his career, Beltre lagged behind Jones and Scott Rolen. He finally broke out as a superstar when he launched 48 homers in 2004, but he then went to Seattle and lost his momentum to injuries and (even more so) Safeco Field.
Since 2010, however, Beltre has been far and away MLB's most productive third baseman. And to be fair, he hasn't gone unnoticed. This stretch contains all four of his All-Star appearances, three of his five Gold Gloves and three of his four Silver Sluggers.
Given MLB's sudden wealth of star third basemen—see Josh Donaldson, Kris Bryant, Manny Machado and Nolan Arenado—and wealth of stars in general, the only way Beltre could have found more recognition is if his star power eclipsed his productivity. That requires a little something extra.
But as it happens, therein lie even more reasons Beltre should be celebrated.
All anyone can ask of players is that they play well, work hard and have fun. If a player seems underrated, it's probably because he checks the first box but not the other two.
Beltre, however, has always checked all three.
He became an everyday player in 1999 and averaged 147 games per season between then and 2016. This despite frequently being hurt, often in serious ways. 
"I do what I do because I love it," he told Howard Megdal for Sports on Earth in 2014. "I don't play for what the media thinks. I like to have the respect of my peers, my teammates around me. It's what I've done in the game, that's it."
Beltre doesn't love what he does just in the abstract. Nobody has more fun playing baseball than he does. It shows in his section of MLB's YouTube page, which features as many hijinks as highlights. They range from backwards helmet-wearing to impromptu dancing to arm flailing to vengeance for head-touching.
Sometimes, his hijinks and highlights are one and the same:
This is how Beltre rolls. He can render an audience thoroughly impressed and thoroughly entertained. By all rights, he should be one of the most beloved stars baseball's ever known.
If anyone now feels like they've missed out, that's a cue to spend the coming days/weeks/months/years making up for lost Beltre watching. But for now, the thing to do is simply stand in appreciation of him. 
Sure, he didn't need to get to 3,000 hits to qualify as one of baseball's all-time greats. Nor is his getting there a rare moment of his deserving to have everyone's attention.
But since Beltre is certainly owed attention, his 3,000th hit is a moment to make the most of. So after beginning with a proper introduction, let's end with a proper toast.
To Adrian Beltre, No. 31 in the 3,000-hit club. And above all, one of a kind.
       
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.


Texas Rangers third baseman Adrian Beltre became the 31st player in Major League Baseball history to reach 3,000 career hits with his double in the fourth inning against the Baltimore Orioles on Sunday.
Beltre is one of the youngest ever to reach the historical mark, per MLB Stat of the Day:
Adrian Beltre is the 31st member of the 3,000-hit club – and one of the 10 youngest to get there. https://t.co/AioQyk8zsr #Beltre3k https://t.co/5qYQCXvys1
Now in his 20th MLB season, Beltre has been one of the best all-around players of his generation. The 38-year-old is a five-time Gold Glove winner, four-time All Star and four-time Silver Slugger. 
Even as he approaches 40, Beltre is showing no signs of slowing down. He entered Sunday's game hitting .310 with nine home runs and 36 RBI.
There was little doubt about Beltre's Hall of Fame credentials even before he got his 3,000th hit. Sports Illustrated's Jay Jaffe wrote this regarding Dominican Republic star going into Cooperstown back in 2016:
"Though he has never won an MVP award and his All-Star and Gold Glove totals are modest (four apiece), the 37-year-old is closing in on 3,000 hits (he has 2,857) and already has 425 homers. What's more, his dazzling defense, which carried him through lean stretches in Los Angeles and Seattle, is backed by the metrics; he's second at the position in fielding runs (221) behind only Brooks Robinson (293), which has propelled him to fifth in JAWS, just ahead of likely 2018 enshrinee Chipper Jones."
Among players with at least 3,000 MLB hits, only Pete Rose, Derek Jeter, Ichiro Suzuki, Alex Rodriguez and Rafael Palmeiro aren't currently in the Baseball Hall of Fame. Jeter, Suzuki and Rodriguez aren't yet eligible, while Rose is ineligible for the Hall of Fame as part of his permanent ban from the sport. 
Beltre made his MLB debut for the Los Angeles Dodgers on June 24, 1998, at the age of 19. He showed the arc his career would take in his first full season in 1999, hitting .275/.352/.428 while playing virtually the entire season at 20 years old. 
Three-thousand hits later, Beltre has long-since cemented his place in MLB history. His 3,000th hit is the latest feather in his legendary cap as he continues to help the Rangers fight for a playoff spot in the American League.

Washington Nationals first baseman Ryan Zimmerman hit his 238th career home run Sunday, passing Frank Howard for the most in Washington D.C. baseball history.
"Ryan Zimmerman — this guy is something very special," Howard said in a statement. "I've met him three or four times, and you don't have to be a Rhodes Scholar to know this guy is the ultimate professional, the pro's pro. Besides his outstanding athletic ability, he carries himself with dignity on and off the field. He has tremendous presence, and he is class personified.
"If he continues putting these kind of numbers up for another six, eight, 10 years, this young man is going to walk into Cooperstown, New York, and into Baseball's Hall of Fame. He is the epitome of what organizations look for in their personnel: quiet, unassuming, but the aura about him is one of dignity and class. You want to know how I feel about it? Nobody is happier for him than me. The sky is the limit."
Zimmerman, 32, hit his 23rd home run of the season in the third inning of Sunday's game against the Colorado Rockies. He has spent his entire 13-year career with the Nationals franchise.
Howard played for the Washington Senators/Texas Rangers franchise from 1965 to 1972. He held nearly every franchise record when his contract was sold to the Detroit Tigers midway through the 1972 season. The 6'7" outfielder made four All-Star teams in Washington and earned the nicknames "The Washington Monument" and "The Capitol Punisher."
Earlier this month, Zimmerman set the Nationals franchise record with 235 home runs. The previous record was held by Vladimir Guerrero, who set it while playing with the Montreal Expos.
The whole thing is a bit messy when it comes to setting records, so Zimmerman ending Guerrero's and Howard's respective reigns will make everything easier for historians going forward.
.

The Chicago White Sox announced Sunday they traded veteran outfielder Melky Cabrera and cash considerations to the Kansas City Royals for minor league pitchers A.J. Puckett and Andre Davis.
MLB.com's Jeffrey Flanagan reported the Royals will pay $2.5 million of the $7 million remaining on Cabrera's contract this year. 
Cabrera is batting .295 with 13 home runs and 56 RBI in 98 games for the White Sox in 2017. 
He'll join an outfield that ranks 22nd in average WAR (minus-1.0), according to Baseball-Reference.com. While Cabrera will bring some much needed offense, Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan tweeted he'll also make things tricky for Kansas City manager Ned Yost:
Will be very interesting to see whose ABs Melky Cabrera takes away. Brandon Moss OPSing .854 in second half. Alex Gordon: .231/.311/.269.
Roughest part for KC is Alex Gordon's contract is quite backloaded. Still owed $44M for next two seasons. His 2017 line: .201/.294/.296.
Still, the Royals needed to do something to help close the gap on the American League Central-leading Cleveland Indians. Josh Vernier of 610 Sports Radio in Kansas City, Missouri, noted Kansas City's nine-game winning streak, which ended Saturday night, didn't help trim the deficit on Cleveland, which extended its own winning streak to nine games Saturday night:
#Royals last 3 weeks:
7/8 - Loss in L.A. - 3 gms back of CLE

7/18 - Lost 7 of 8 - 3 gms back of CLE

7/29 - Won 9 of 10 - 3 gms back of CLE
Cabrera likely won't put the Royals over the top in the division, but he's another experienced option for Yost.
The White Sox, meanwhile, continued their midseason fire sale. They've already dealt Jose Quintana, Todd Frazier, David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle, Jose Quintana, Anthony Swarzak and Dan Jennings. Since he'll be a free agent at the end of the year, Cabrera offered little long-term value to a team undergoing a full-scale rebuild.
Neither Puckett nor Davis has pitched above High-A, so it will surely be a few years before they can help Chicago at the major league level.

The MLB non-waiver trade deadline is Monday at 4 p.m. ET, and teams are scrambling to make last-minute deals.
The New York Yankees traded for Minnesota Twins starting pitcher Jaime Garcia on Sunday morning, and based on rumors from the game's best news-breaking reporters, we'll see more transactions before the weekend is over.
Here's a look at some trade rumors that dropped on Sunday involving a few of the biggest names on the block.
               
Yu Darvish
It seems like a matter of "if" and not "when" Texas Rangers starting pitcher Yu Darvish gets traded to a playoff contender before the deadline.
According to TR Sullivan of MLB.com, the Los Angeles Dodgers and New York Yankees are in on the Darvish sweepstakes, and there is a third mystery team involved:
Dodgers and Yankees in on Darvish but there apparently is a third team interested that  nobody was expecting. Not sure who it would be
Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News speculates that team might be Cleveland:
What I know this morning: Yankees and Dodgers remain interested in Darvish as they have all along. What I think: Cleveland also
However, Buster Olney of ESPN reports that the Yankees are not showing significant interest in Darvish:
Yankees arent really that involved on Darvish.
Given that the Yankees look like they are closing in on Oakland Athletics starting pitcher Sonny Gray (see below), it looks like the race for Darvish will be between the Dodgers and the mystery team Sullivan mentioned.
Because Darvish is a free agent after this season, the Rangers have incentive to trade him away for top prospects as opposed to potentially losing him for just a compensation draft pick.
Therefore, expect a deal to get done. L.A. has been mentioned as a possible destination numerous times over the past few days, but if Grant's intuition is correct, then Cleveland is an interesting landing spot as well.
Both teams have weathered significant injuries to their starting rotations over the last couple of seasons, and Darvish would be a steady presence to fill a spot for either playoff contender.
     
Sonny Gray
According to Buster Olney, the New York Yankees are still interested in Sonny Gray despite the Garcia trade, and one of his sources believes a deal will be completed:
Yankees are continuing to talk about Sonny Gray. One evaluator familiar with talks: "I think it gets done."
Gray has had a good year in Oakland after an inconsistent 2016 campaign was hindered by injuries. For the season, Gray is 6-5 with a 3.43 ERA and 94 strikeouts in 97.0 innings pitched.
Remarkably, Gray's 3.43 ERA this year is actually the second-worst mark of his five-year career. Over the course of his first three seasons in Oakland, Gray had a 33-20 record with a 2.88 ERA, per Baseball Reference. He also finished third in the AL Cy Young voting in 2015.
The Gray addition would give the Yankees six proven starters. Obviously, not all of them can start in the postseason provided they make it, but it's a good problem for New York to have, as the Yanks would have the flexibility to choose from many pitchers for the starting rotation and bullpen.
     
Zach Britton
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Baltimore Orioles are looking for a sizable prospect haul in return for closer Zach Britton:
o's looking to do a chapman-miller type (big prospect) deal for star record-setting britton. may still keep him. https://t.co/GaM4ffhygB
Britton was the best closer in baseball last season, as he shut down opposing hitters to the tune of a microscopic 0.54 ERA. His efforts were so remarkable that he finished fourth in the AL Cy Young voting and 11th in the MVP race.
However, 2017 has been a different story, as Britton missed two months with a forearm strain. His injury and time away have contributed to a 3.44 ERA this season as he works his way back into form.
Still, this is the best (or second-best, if you prefer the Los Angeles Dodgers' Kenley Jansen) closer in the game when healthy. He'd be a great asset to any team's bullpen.
Furthermore, numerous playoff contenders have struggling pens, including the Washington Nationals and Colorado Rockies. It's hard not seeing one of them making a play for Britton before the deadline.

The Boston Red Sox have focused their efforts on adding New York Mets reliever Addison Reed before Monday's non-waiver trade deadline.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported the two sides were not close on a deal. 
Reed, 28, has become a hot trade commodity as teams look for late-innings help, as the Mets' nearly nonexistent playoff hopes could make them more willing to part with their stand-in closer in exchange for prospects.
The Mets also acquired AJ Ramos from the Miami Marlins on Friday, ostensibly ensuring Reed would be headed elsewhere before the deadline.
"I've been traded twice before. If it's going to happen, it's going to happen," Reed told reporters Tuesday. "Nothing I can do about it. I am going to come to the field tomorrow, and if my nameplate is up here, I am going to suit up and go. If not, I'll go some place else."
The Red Sox are attempting to improve a bullpen that already ranks third in baseball in relievers' ERA. Adding Reed as a setup man for Craig Kimbrel would perhaps give Boston MLB's best relief corps heading into what is sure to be a heated stretch run in the American League East.

The 2017 MLB season is beginning its stretch run toward the playoffs. We have a little over two months until the start of the postseason and far less time for potential contenders to trade for roster support.
This year's non-waiver trade deadline is 4 p.m. ET on Monday. After that time, acquiring a player via trade becomes a whole lot more complicated.
We could see moves made in rapid succession before the deadline. We'll definitely see the rumors fly in that way. If teams are looking to acquire players or sell them off, they are running out of time to do so.
We're here to examine the latest MLB trade buzz as we count down to the 2017 non-waiver trade deadline.
       
Mystery Team Now In on Yu Darvish
Pitcher Yu Darvish has been one of the hottest names on the trade market for some time, as parting with him would make sense for the Texas Rangers. Darvish is in the final year of his contract, yet Texas could still get something of value in return for him. Allowing Darvish to leave next offseason would yield nothing for the Rangers.
Until recently, though, there has remained the possibility that Darvish could remain with the Rangers. The team is still in the AL wild-card race and could use a pitcher of his caliber while trying to make a run.
According to Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal, though, Texas has let teams know Darvish is available:
Sources: #Rangers confident they will get quality trade for Darvish. Informing clubs they will move him, actively exchanging names.
The market for Darvish should be deep, as there is a demand for starting pitching. He has been linked to both the New York Yankees and the Los Angeles Dodgers, who recently placed ace Clayton Kershaw on the short-term DL. A third team has apparently entered the mix—or perhaps has quietly been there all along.
According to T.R. Sullivan of MLB.com, there is a mystery club involved in the chase for Darvish:
Dodgers and Yankees in on Darvish but there apparently is a third team interested that  nobody was expecting. Not sure who it would be
Without knowing who this mystery team is, it's difficult to tell whether it will have any impact on the asking price for Darvish. The Yankees and Dodgers are two teams that aren't afraid to spend to win, so those two bidding against each other might already be enough to drive up his value. Plus, there is always the possibility this mystery team is simply a Rangers creation.
What we do know is this unknown outfit probably isn't one of the 10 on Darvish's no-trade list. The pitcher has a limited no-trade clause in his contract that, according to Rosenthal, can prevent him from being traded to the Cleveland Indians, Boston Red Sox, Baltimore Orioles, Chicago Cubs, Colorado Rockies, Chicago White Sox, Detroit Tigers, Toronto Blues Jays, Oakland Athletics or the Pittsburgh Pirates:
Yu Darvish’s 10-team no-trade list, per sources: BAL, BOS, CHC, CLE, COL, CWS, DET, OAK, PIT, TOR. Free to go to LAD, NYY, HOU, all others.
You might note that neither L.A. nor New York is on that list.
        
Dodgers May Have Inside Track on Darvish
Aside from the Yankees and the aforementioned mystery team, the Dodgers might not be facing that much competition for Darvish—assuming he's the guy L.A. is chasing after.
With Kershaw temporarily out of the lineup, it makes sense for the Dodgers to add a starting pitcher to the rotation. Not only could this help the team stay out in front in the playoff race, but it could bolster the rotation for the postseason too.
Darvish is far from the only pitcher on the trade market, though, and he's not the only one who has been on L.A.'s radar. According to MLB Network's Jon Morosi, the Dodgers have been eyeing Darvish, Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander and the Oakland A's Sonny Gray:
Sources: #Dodgers increasingly confident they will acquire 1 of Yu Darvish, Sonny Gray or Justin Verlander by Monday. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Also according to Morosi, the Dodgers would likely face more competition for a player like Gray because most teams aren't as interested in a short-term rental:
Sources: #Dodgers facing less competition on Darvish than Gray, because most @MLB contenders are focused on adding multiyear assets.
For the Dodgers, though, Darvish still makes perfect sense. The team is poised to win a championship, and if Darvish can help it do so, the fact he might not be around next season doesn't matter all that much.
Verlander could also be an option for Los Angeles, but the long-term commitment involved and the potential red flags could steer the team toward Darvish. The Tigers man is in the midst of a down season, is 34 and is due to earn $28 million in each of the next two seasons.
While a deal could still pop up, it's feeling increasingly unlikely that Verlander will be moved before the trade deadline.
"Rival teams simply want no part of a contract that pays Verlander $28 million per year through 2019, people familiar with the situation say," FanRag Sports baseball writer Jon Heyman wrote.
This, plus the competition for Gray, could steer the Dodgers toward Darvish.
       
Yankees, A's Seeing Different Values for Gray
The top competition for Gray likely comes from the Yankees. Oakland and New York have been in talks for the pitcher, according to ESPN.com's Buster Olney:
The Athletics and Yankees continue to talk about Sonny Gray. Both sides making concessions, but haven't reached agreement yet.
However, talks for a deal could continue all the way down to the wire because the two sides apparently share differing opinions on a proper value. Rosenthal recently wrote the following:
"The Athletics view Sonny Gray one way. The Yankees view him another. But both teams need to complete this trade more than they care to admit, and the best guess is that it will happen.
"I'm not buying that the Athletics will hold Gray and carry him into the winter; Gray currently is healthy, and his value might never be higher.
"I'm also not buying that the Yankees will view Twins lefty [Jaime] Garcia - whom they are close to acquiring, as first reported by Yahoo's Jeff Passan - as a sole solution. Garcia is a potential free agent, and the Yankees need rotation help beyond this season."
As previously mentioned, Gray isn't a short-term rental like Darvish. He's slated for arbitration in each of the next two years. While the Yankees did land Garcia, according to Tyler Kepner of the New York Times, Gray remains an enticing option for New York. The two parties just need to agree on a price.

Texas Rangers third baseman Adrian Beltre recorded his 2,999th career hit during Saturday's game against the Baltimore Orioles.
He returns to the diamond in search of another knock Sunday to become just the fifth player born outside of the United States with 3,000 career hits to his name, per ESPN Stats & Info. Ichiro Suzuki joined that group late last season. Previously, only Rafael Palmeiro (Cuba), Rod Carew (Panama) and Roberto Clemente (Puerto Rico) could claim the same.
Despite turning 38 in April, Beltre has proven he still belongs on the field. The veteran is hitting .310 with nine home runs and 36 RBI through 50 games played. Unfortunately, he's been a bright spot on an otherwise forgettable season for the Rangers.
Texas has the mentality of a selling team as the trade deadline approaches, already announcing the club is willing to part ways with ace Yu Darvish. The team owns just a 50-53 record following Saturday's loss, good for fourth in the AL West and 18 games back of the division-leading Houston Astros.
The Rangers' struggles in 2017 don't take away from Beltre's accomplishments. He's been the model of consistency and reliability throughout his career, playing in at least 111 games in every season since he became an everyday starter in 1999. An early-season calf injury has derailed any chance of that again this season, but he still has a good shot of playing at least 100 contests.
Beltre has racked up many personal accolades throughout his career, including four All-Star nominations, five Gold Gloves, two Platinum Gloves and four Silver Slugger awards. Although his name may have been debated in the past, Beltre's accomplishments and milestones—3,000 hits included—should make him a strong candidate for enshrinement in Cooperstown some day.

With the non-waiver trade deadline of Monday at 4 p.m. ET creeping closer, the New York Yankees made a move Saturday night for starting pitcher Jaime Garcia, who had just been traded from the Atlanta Braves to the Minnesota Twins last Monday:
Last night, the @Yankees acquired LHP Jaime García and cash considerations from MIN in exchange for LHP Dietrich Enns and RHP Zack Littell.
Here's a look at the latest chatter about three starting pitchers who could have new homes very soon:
     
Sonny Gray
Although the Yankees acquired Garcia, they still remain the front-runners for Oakland Athletics starting pitcher Sonny Gray, per Mark Feinsand of MLB.com:
Garcia deal does NOT take the Yankees out of the mix for Gray. In fact, source says they remain the favorites.
On the surface, acquiring two starting pitchers seems like a curious move. The Yankees have one open spot in the rotation after Michael Pineda tore his UCL, but Masahiro Tanaka, CC Sabathia, Luis Severino and Jordan Montgomery are holding down the other four.
However, Joel Sherman of the New York Post and MLB Network explains why the Yanks are still pursuing Gray:
#Yankees have refused to say if Monty/Severino have IP caps, are persistently worried about CC holding up, so Garcia plus Gray (cont)
Would work as way to limit IP or remove a SP if they are still able to land Gray from #Athletics. #Yankees
Feinsand also points out that a six-man rotation could be a possibility through the regular season:
A six-man rotation is also an intriguing possibility given how much better Tanaka has pitched with extra rest. Plus CC's age/health.
Another reason: Gray is having a good season, as he is 6-5 with a 3.43 ERA. He is striking out batters at an above-average clip of 23.5 percent of the time, per FanGraphs, and he is also inducing ground balls at a 56.7 percent rate.
Although Gray would be moving from a pitcher's park (O.co Coliseum) to a hitter's park with short porches in left and right field (Yankee Stadium), he can make the transition if his stellar ground-ball rate continues.
Expect a deal to get done before Monday's deadline.
      
Lance Lynn
The St. Louis Cardinals are only 4.5 games back of the Chicago Cubs for the NL Central lead, but they could conceivably become sellers at the deadline. Ultimately, the Redbirds are two games under .500 and haven't looked the part of a playoff contender all season.
Of course, things can change in the matter of days in the standings, but with the deadline looming, the Cards have to make a decision as to whether they are buyers or sellers.
If they choose the latter, then the Houston Astros are interested in starting pitcher Lance Lynn, per Jon Morosi of Fox Sports:
Sources: #Astros have shown interest in Lance Lynn. HOU/STL officials are comfortable dealing with one another, despite recent history. @MLB
That history Morosi referenced can be read about here, but focusing on Lynn, he is one of the most underrated starting pitchers in baseball.
Lynn isn't an innings-eater, averaging just under six per start, but he's earned a 3.35 ERA over the course of six seasons and has won 15 or more games three times.
He'd be a great asset on the Astros and would combine with 2015 AL Cy Young winner Dallas Keuchel and 2017 All-Star Lance McCullers Jr. to form a very formidable one-two-three punch in the starting rotation.
Per FanGraphs, the Cards have a 20.7 percent shot to make the playoffs. Is that high enough for the Cards to hold still and hope for a late-season run, or will they look to 2018 and beyond?
      
J.A. Happ
The Toronto Blue Jays have had a disappointing season, as they are 48-56 and in last place in the American League East. It's been a surprise to see Toronto flounder, and now it may trade off some veterans with an eye toward the future.
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Jays will consider team's asking prices for 34-year-old left-hander J.A. Happ:
tho jays' main goal is to get better in 2018, they now at least are willing to listen on this frontline starter. https://t.co/d8DS2VPdvy
Happ signed as a free agent before the 2016 season and immediately paid off, as he went 20-4 with a 3.18 ERA, finishing sixth in the AL Cy Young voting.
However, this year has been a different story. Happ missed a month-and-a-half in the early portion of the season with left elbow inflammation, and he hasn't been the same, going 3-8 with a 4.15 ERA. His WHIP has jumped from 1.17 to 1.33 as well.
That all being said, Happ is one year removed from winning 20 games, and left-handed starters aren't exactly a dime a dozen, especially with Garcia finding a new home. Don't be surprised if more interest drums up around Happ as the deadline nears.

Fact: Jason Heyward hit his eighth home run of the season to propel the Cubs to a 2-1 win over the Brewers on Saturday. He had seven total home runs last season.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: B/R Insights

There is still a lot to be done before Monday's MLB non-waiver trade deadline passes, but some teams have already done the leg work and are gearing up for a late-season push into the postseason.
With the likes of Yu Darvish, Sonny Gray and even Justin Verlander reportedly being shopped around, a lot could change for multiple teams before Monday's 4 p.m. deadline. Let's take a look at some teams that have already acquired the talent they needed to improve and become threats in their respective divisions.
        
Chicago Cubs

After winning the World Series last season, expectations were high for the Chicago Cubs to become a dynasty, competing in and winning multiple championship games. But in 2017, the fairytale story begun to go off script.
With a losing record at the All-Star break, the Cubs looked doomed to return to their old ways of mediocrity and losing. However, a move to trade for left-handed pitcher Jose Quintana from the Chicago White Sox was a big step in the right direction.
Per Phil Rogers of MLB.com:
Maddon loves what Quintana trade has done for @Cubs, while @whitesox are digging Eloy Jimenez. https://t.co/TZ5t1cL9f0
Quintana is one of the more underrated pitchers in the MLB today and has already proved his worth in small sample sizes with his new team. With a 2-1 record in his past three starts, including a 2.37 ERA, Quintana is looking to take the Cubs back into postseason play in coming months, even if he's not considered an ace. 
The Cubs traded two prospects to the White Sox, including outfielder Eloy Jimenez and pitcher Dylan Cease and Class A infielders Matt Rose and Bryant Flete. While their talent levels are undeniable, potential doesn't always translate to the big league field.
With Quintana, Chicago will have additional help in steering the franchise back to winning ways en route with the hopes of defending their World Series title. 
        
New York Yankees

The trade season is far from over for the Yankees, who are in negotiations for Oakland Athletics pitcher Sonny Gray, despite the trade with Oakland being on the verge of falling through, according to Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com.
Thus far, #Yankees have balked at #Athletics asking price for Gray. If it doesn't come down, they're prepared to go in different direction.
But this isn't about thinking about what could happen before the non-waiver trade deadline. Let's reflect on what the Yankees have already accomplished to improve themselves, not only for a playoff push but also for years to come.
New York has established a winning attitude inside of the locker room for the first time in a few years thanks to rookie sensation Aaron Judge. But Judge hasn't been the reason for the Yankees' latest turnaround after the team began to fall off pace earlier in July.
The White Sox traded some of their bullpen in pitchers David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle to the Yankees, along with Todd Frazier, while Chicago acquired outfielder Blake Rutherford and the Yankees' 2016 first-round pick. In his first five appearances for New York, Kahnle hasn't allowed a run.
Give credit where credit is due. The Yankees are serious about getting back into win-now mode, and they're accumulating the proper assets to do so. Only time will tell whether these deals—or any future trades—will have paid off.

The New York Yankees announced Sunday they acquired Minnesota Twins starting pitcher Jaime Garcia.
Welcome to the Yankees family, Jaime Garcia!

The veteran is 67-52 with a 3.65 ERA in 9 MLB seasons. https://t.co/a1BAyt9YNl
The Twins received pitchers Dietrich Enns and Zack Littell in return.
Buster Olney of ESPN reported "talks will continue" between the Yankees and Oakland Athletics about starter Sonny Gray, while Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports noted that even "if a deal for Garcia is completed, Yankees still in the market for another starter, with Gray at the top of their list."
Joel Sherman of the New York Post suggested "Garcia [is a] more reliable fifth starting pitcher than Caleb Smith. Gives Yankees [a] bit [of] leverage with Athletics to say they can go as is, not budge on Gray offer."
Garcia, 31, would be an upgrade at the back of the New York rotation. He's 5-7 with a 4.29 ERA and 1.34 WHIP this season.
But Gray would be the big catch. The Athletics ace has been excellent in 2017, going 6-5 with a 3.43 ERA, 1.18 WHIP and 94 strikeouts in 16 starts and 97 innings. Plus, Gray is just 27 and under club control through the 2019 season. Those factors make him a valuable potential addition.
Of course, they also make him a great asset for Oakland. As Sherman noted:
"For their leverage, A's officials have pointed out that Gray is under control through the 2019 season and, thus, if they do not receive what they believe is a fair return, they would simply hold on to him now and market him again in the offseason.
"However, the broad sentiment outside of the A's front office was explained by one NL official, who said in a text: 'He's definitely getting moved. The A's would be crazy to hold him given how well he's pitching.'"
With the trade deadline looming, the Yankees seem like they're in the running to land both Gray and Garcia as they look to make a push for the postseason.

Major League Baseball's non-waiver trade deadline arrives on Monday at 4 p.m. ET, and there is a lot that remains to be settled. 
All of the attention leading up to the deadline revolves around pitching. Specifically, two American League West starters in Sonny Gray of the Oakland Athletics and Yu Darvish of the Texas Rangers. 
The A's know they are in a rebuilding phase, entering Sunday's game against the Minnesota Twins with the AL's second-worst record, and would do well to find a trade partner for Gray now rather than run the risk of having him potentially injure himself in August or September to diminish his trade value. 
The Rangers are part of a large AL cluster sitting under .500 but are theoretically in the wild-card race because no one has been able to pull away from the pack. They could turn things around in the final two months of the regular season, but Darvish's looming free agency makes it difficult to wait.
Looking at where the trade winds are blowing, here's what to expect in the time remaining before the clock runs out on non-waiver trading. 
       
The Gray Market
Because he has two years of team control left after 2017, Gray is the most valuable trade asset on the market. The 27-year-old has a 3.43 ERA with 94 strikeouts in 97 innings, including a 0.98 ERA in three starts since the All-Star break. 
What isn't clear is whether Gray will be moved—or just how many teams are in on the bidding. 
Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported Thursday the Houston Astros and Milwaukee Brewers are "not significantly involved" in discussions with the A's. 
The New York Yankees appear to still be discussing Gray, though FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported the Athletics have asked for packages that include either outfielder Clint Frazier or shortstop Gleyber Torres. 
Among that group of suitors, the Yankees make the most sense as Gray's landing spot. Their starting rotation ranks ninth in MLB, with a 4.16 ERA, but Michael Pineda is out for the season and Masahiro Tanaka, who can opt out of his deal after this season, has a 5.09 ERA. 
New York's rebuilding project has progressed at a faster pace than expected, which adds to Gray's value to the team because he can influence this year's pennant race and lead a formidable tandem atop the rotation next season with Luis Severino.
The Yankees have excellent depth in the outfield, with Aaron Judge already a star in the big leagues. Dustin Fowler and Estevan Florial both rank among MLB.com's top 100 prospects, so they could build a deal around Frazier without significantly affecting their future outfield mix. 
       
Rangers Set Darvish Price
While the Rangers have yet to trade  Darvish, they have established a market for teams to work with if they want to acquire the right-hander.
MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Friday the Rangers asked the Los Angeles Dodgers for a package that included right-handed pitcher Walker Buehler or outfielder Alex Verdugo. 
Things get tricky with that asking price, though. Buehler and Verdugo rank as the top two prospects in the Dodgers' farm system, and both players are in the top 30 prospects overall with MLB.com. 
Heyman reported Friday that even though Darvish is Los Angeles' "preferred pitching target," the team isn't likely to surrender one of its top prospects to make a deal. 
MLB.com's Mark Feinsand added to the Dodgers' discussion on Saturday, reporting they were doing more "bargain hunting" because they don't want to part with any of their top prospects. 
Darvish has game-changing stuff on the mound. The 30-year-old is averaging 9.72 strikeouts per nine innings, but he's also sporting a career-high 4.01 ERA and is allowing a career-worst 1.31 home runs per nine innings.
Another problem for the Rangers as they seek a huge return for Darvish is he would only be a two-month rental. He can become a free agent this offseason and could command a big multiyear deal. 
If Darvish were in a situation like Gray's, with multiple years of control left, a team like the Dodgers could justify building a package around one of their top two prospects.
Darvish also has a limited no-trade clause that includes the Baltimore Orioles, Boston Red Sox, Chicago Cubs, Cleveland Indians, Colorado Rockies, Chicago White Sox, Detroit Tigers, Pittsburgh Pirates and Toronto Blue Jays, per Rosenthal. 
From that group, the only contending teams are the Red Sox, Cubs, Indians and Rockies. The Cubs are the only team with a reported interest in Darvish, though they made a big splash to acquire Jose Quintana from the Chicago White Sox earlier in July. 
The Dodgers may be able to wait out this market since controllable assets are exponentially more valuable than rental players. They could have a need for another starter, depending on how long Clayton Kershaw's back injury keeps him out of action.
The Rangers are in a bad position with Darvish. They have no reason to keep him because they are three games under .500 and fading, but his impending free agency and erratic performance in 2017 make it hard to get the moon for a talented starting pitcher. 
      
Justin Wilson in Demand
As the Detroit Tigers continue their descent in the American League Central, Justin Wilson's trade market seems to increase. 
Per Feinsand, there are still "several teams" keeping an eye on Wilson leading up to the non-waiver trade deadline. 
Among the list of Wilson's reported suitors are the Yankees, Astros, Indians, Cubs, Red Sox and Washington Nationals. In other words, essentially every major contender in both leagues.
This does put the Tigers in an enviable position of leveraging offers from each of them to take the one that benefits them the most.
Heyman reported Thursday the Brewers, Astros and Red Sox were "thought to be the leaders" for Wilson. Trade discussions are always fluid, so even rumors or reports from 72 hours ago could be drastically outdated. 
Wilson does have the added benefit of one more year under team control before he can become a free agent in the winter of 2018. The 29-year-old southpaw is having a fantastic season, with a 2.75 ERA, 55 strikeouts and 21 hits allowed in 39.1 innings. 
He's been terrific against hitters from both sides of the plate this season. Lefties have posted a .633 OPS against him, and right-handed hitters have fared worse with a .531 OPS, per Baseball Reference.
Because the leash gets tightened for starting pitchers in the postseason, relievers occupy a bigger spotlight in the most important games. Being able to shorten games with a dominant bullpen can carry a team far.
The Indians used that formula to great success last October, with Andrew Miller and Cody Allen often working multiple innings each night. 
Wilson shouldn't net the Tigers as much of a return compared to what the Yankees received from the Indians and Cubs last year for Miller and Aroldis Chapman, respectively. He doesn't have the same track record of success they did.
That's not to say he wouldn't be a difference-maker at the back of a bullpen for any of those interested contenders.
Among the list of suitors, the Nationals make the most sense simply because of their need. They did take steps to address the bullpen by acquiring Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson from the A's, but adding a third piece to the equation would help close the gap to the Dodgers in the National League.

Aaron Judge's New York Yankees Major League Baseball debut jersey has been sold at auction for $157,366.
As Darren Rovell of ESPN reported, Steiner Sports held the sale, and the winning offer was made Sunday.
The price paid makes Judge's jersey the costliest from any of the United States' four main sports in the last 15 years, with Stephen Curry's jersey from the 2017 NBA Finals previously the most expensive at $135,060.
Memorabilia centered around Judge is proving to be particularly popular among buyers.
In July, a rookie card the 25-year-old signed sold on eBay for more than $14,000, while the jersey he wore when hitting his maiden career grand slam was purchased for $45,578.

Speaking to Dave Caldwell of the Guardian, sports business consultant Joe Favorito commented on Judge's popularity and how he's managed to capture fans' attention.
"Derek Jeter found a way to balance, and I think you will see that with Aaron and his team as well," he said. "Could it be millions? Certainly. Does he have to keep performing? Absolutely. There is nothing more valuable to a brand than steak and sizzle, and he certainly has the beef."
The MLB Twitter feed showcased why he's such a force in the baseball world:
.@TheJudge44 hit FOUR homers over 500 feet, including this 513-foot blast – longest of the @Tmobile #HRDerby. https://t.co/nWCYOQVVlY
Judge has enjoyed a tremendous rookie season, batting .305 with 33 home runs and 74 RBI to go along with a .428 on-base percentage. He's already topped the previous best home run haul for a Yankees debutant; Joe DiMaggio smashed 29 in 1936.
Judge is earning an annual salary of $544,500 from the New York franchise.

The 2017 MLB non-waiver trade deadline will arrive at 4 p.m. ET Monday, and several big names could be on the way to new teams.
As is often the case at this time of the year, there's a literal arms race happening. Among those still being haggled over are starting pitchers Sonny Gray, Yu Darvish and Justin Verlander.
Which teams will pony up with the winning offers to bolster their rotations? A look around the league can provide some clues.
       
Sonny Gray to the Yankees?

Sonny Gray has dealt with various injuries over the past two years, but he's still on the right side of 30, boasts a solid career ERA of 3.42 and finished third in Cy Young voting in 2015.
Perhaps most importantly, though, Gray is on a team-friendly contract the New York Yankees would like to get hold of.
And while talks generally appear to be at a standstill, Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal reported that a deal is still the likely outcome.
"The [Oakland] Athletics view Sonny Gray one way. The Yankees view him another," Rosenthal wrote on Facebook. "But both teams need to complete this trade more than they care to admit, and the best guess is that it will happen."
If the trade does go down, Gray would almost certainly be the No. 2 or No. 3 starter for a team firmly in the playoff hunt.
New York leads the American League East and is second in the division in team ERA. Adding a quality starter should help carry the Yankees through the regular-season finish line.
If negotiations fall through, New York reportedly has backup plans, per FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman:
yanks still in contact with the "rentals" (darvish, lynn, jaime) but theyre fallbacks. a's have other teams on gray. but nyy appears to lead
But the ideal outcome for the Yankees is bring in Gray, who is under contract through 2019, something that can't be said of the other pitchers in Heyman's tweet.
       
Another Bat for the Colorado Rockies?

The Colorado Rockies hold a five-game advantage over the Milwaukee Brewers for the second National League wild-card spot thanks in large part to their offense. But they may be looking for even more pop from the catcher's spot.
"The Rockies have expressed interest in [Texas] Rangers catcher Jonathan Lucroy, according to Major League sources" MLB.com's T.R. Sullivan wrote. "A trade is not imminent, but the Rockies are looking to upgrade their catching as Monday's non-waiver Trade Deadline approaches."
While Lucroy has seen his production fall off this year, he has a track record as a hitter and more experience than Colorado's Tony Wolters.
Now halfway through his second season in the bigs, Wolters has zero home runs and 14 runs batted in. Lucroy's 162-game averages are 16 home runs and 78 RBI, and he's one year removed from an All-Star appearance.
Perhaps swinging in the thin air of Denver could help get Lucroy back on track offensively.
       
The Los Angeles Dodgers Aren't Satisfied

The Los Angeles Dodgers have the best record in baseball and are on pace for an absurd 114 wins, which would put them just two shy of the Major League record. Yet the front office appears intent on adding even more firepower.
On Thursday, MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported:
Sources: #Dodgers increasingly confident they will acquire 1 of Yu Darvish, Sonny Gray or Justin Verlander by Monday. @MLB @MLBNetwork
And on Saturday, Rosenthal wrote: "Gray, Rangers ace Yu Darvish and Orioles closer Zach Britton are the Dodgers’ three main targets, according to sources." 
L.A. is in win-now mode, and the concerns that come with renting a player are less applicable in that situation. Even if he's only there for the rest of this 2017 run, adding Darvish to a rotation that already includes Clayton Kershaw and Alex Wood should terrify the rest of the league.
        
Justin Verlander Staying Put?

Justin Verlander has spent his entire legendary career with the Detroit Tigers. And despite some previous rumblings that he may be moved in an effort to expedite their rebuild, it looks like that may be on hold.
Barring a...last-second turnabout, iconic Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander will remain in Detroit after Monday's trade deadline," Heyman wrote for FanRag Sports. "There's been a lot of speculation about Verlander since the Tigers are conducting a sale, but sources say it would take a 'miracle' for him to change teams."
Verlander is 34 and in the midst of just the third season of his career in which he's recorded fewer wins than losses. And he's on a contract that will pay him $28 million per year through at least 2019. If he finishes in the top five in Cy Young voting that year, he would be eligible for another $22 million in 2020, when he'll be 37.
With that kind of financial obligation to a player near the end of his career, it's easy to see why teams might not be willing to sell the farm for him. And Detroit is understandably unwilling to give him up for nothing.
So for at least the remainder of this season, it looks like Verlander will continue to be a lifetime Tiger.