
(Reuters) - American Sophia Schubert won the U.S. Amateur Championship on Sunday, beating Albane Valenzuela of Switzerland 6&5 in the 36-hole final at San Diego Country Club in southern California.
Schubert, competing in her first U.S. Women’s Amateur, became the first player over the age of 19 to win the title in nine years.
She also joined an exclusive club of champions who never trailed in the final, the list including recent world number one Lydia Ko, who won in 2012.
(Reuters) - Japan's Kei Nishikori has become the latest top 10 player to pull out of this week's Cincinnati Masters after the world number nine withdrew from the U.S. Open warmup event due to pain from a long-standing right wrist injury.
The 27-year-old, who had been seeded fifth and given a first-round bye, had flown to the host city before making the call to withdraw.
"Unfortunately I will not be able to play in Cincy," Nishikori wrote in English on his official app.
"Today (Sunday) during practice I felt a sharp pain in my right wrist and we are now visiting with the medical specialists to discuss the diagnosis. We will provide more details after we have more information."
Nishikori joins world number one Andy Murray, last year's champion Marin Cilic, U.S. Open winner Stan Wawrinka and 12-times major champ Novak Djokovic on the list of players skipping the event through injury.
Both Wawrinka (knee) and Djokovic (elbow) have opted to end their seasons early to recover from their ailments, while Murray (hip) faces the prospect of losing his top ranking should either Rafa Nadal or Roger Federer win the Cincinnati event.
The U.S. Open is the final grand slam of the year and runs from Aug. 28-Sept. 10 in New York.
MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Australia's Sally Pearson will reward herself with "volumes" of greasy food after winning her second 100 meters hurdles world championship but plans to keep herself in top shape in the long-term for a tilt at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
Pearson's brilliant win at the London Stadium on Saturday capped two years of injury heartbreak and made her Australia's most decorated track athlete of the modern era.
The 2012 London Olympic champion was denied a chance to defend her title last year at Rio due to a hamstring injury but hopes her body can stand up for Tokyo in 2020, when she would be just shy of her 34th birthday.
"Of course, you always think about Tokyo," the rejuvenated hurdler told state radio ABC.
"I've always want to go to three Olympics. Missing out on Rio was heartbreaking but obviously it was there for a reason.
"As I've said, I've got to look after my body. Definitely (running at) the Commonwealth Games next year. And who knows what will happen after that?
"Tokyo is only three years away ... I just have to listen to my body and be smart about it."
After missing out on Rio, Pearson coached her own way back to the top, reasoning that after multiple injury setbacks, no-one knew her body like she did.
She will cast off the unflinching self-discipline for a brief period to eat what she wants before plotting a path to victory at next year's Commonwealth Games, where she will be the headline attraction near her home on the Gold Coast.
"Volumes of food .... I like to reward myself with greasy food," said Pearson, who won her first 100m hurdles world title at Daegu in 2011 and grabbed a silver at the Moscow championships two years later.
Also a silver medalist at the 2008 Beijing Games, Pearson's third individual world championship medal surpassed the record of iconic Aboriginal sprinter Cathy Freeman, who won back-to-back 400m titles in 1997-99 and clinched gold at the 2000 Sydney Olympics.
A week after mourning the death of Betty Cuthbert, the only athlete to win 100, 200 and 400m Olympic golds, local media hailed Pearson as Australia's "latest golden girl".
"Cuthbert was the center of a much cherished and glorious part of Australian sporting history," prominent local pundit Patrick Smith wrote in The Australian newspaper.
"That spirit lives on. It is indestructible. It lives on in Sally Pearson who sometimes has a fragility that is a decoy for the toughness that lines her body and soul."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Justin Thomas capped off a major season that belonged to an aggressive new breed of fearless young Americans when he stormed to a two-stroke victory at the PGA Championship on Sunday.
At 24, he followed in the footsteps of then-23-year-old Jordan Spieth's British Open triumph and the U.S. Open victory by 27-year-old Brooks Koepka, suggesting a bright future for  American golf.
Thomas, one of the longest drivers on tour, started the final major of the year ranked 14th in the world, not one of the favorites after recent poor form, but came through by executing under pressure as many of his rivals withered.
"I just had an unbelievable calmness throughout the week, throughout the day," Thomas said after lifting the Wanamaker Trophy. "I really truly felt I was going to win. I was just very confident. I didn’t get flustered.
"I was a lot more calm than I thought I would be. I thought I would be very shaky. At one point I looked at my hand it was a little shaky but that’s why you play."
The serenity served Thomas well after a slow start, as he bided his time before vaulting to the front with four birdies in a sizzling seven-hole stretch mid-round.
He then held firm over the dangerous final water-lined three holes, known as the 'Green Mile', hoisting a seven-iron to 15-foot at the par-three 17th before sinking the putt to all but secure victory, a bogey at the last academic as he carded 68 to finish at eight-under 276.
"That was probably one of the best shots I’ve ever had to a pin that was really brutal," Thomas said of his tee shot at 17.
"I needed to make par. I’ll never forget that vision in my head (and) to make a birdie there was beyond a bonus."
Thomas was one of five players tied for the lead early on the back nine, before he broke clear with an unlikely 40-foot chip-in birdie at the par-three 13th.
He celebrated wildly, pumping his fists, perhaps sensing it was a pivotal moment.
"That chip-in on 13 was probably the most berserk I’ve ever been on the golf course," he said.
As Thomas celebrated, others wondered what might have been, as fellow American Patrick Reed (67) bogeyed the last to finish equal second with Italian Francesco Molinari (67) and South African Louis Oosthuizen (70).
Hideki Matsuyama, seeking to become the first man from Japan to win a major, held the lead briefly mid-round before fading with three consecutive bogeys from the 11th.
He carded 72 and finished three shots behind with American Rickie Fowler (67).
Overnight leader Kevin Kisner (74) finished four shots back.
Thomas, after sinking a 35-foot birdie at the ninth, picked up another shot to tie for the lead at the par-five 10th, where his eight-foot putt stopped on the lip of the cup.
Almost apoplectic with frustration, he wisely took his time walking to the ball, which after remaining stationary for 12 seconds toppled in.
"I acted like a child and threw a little tantrum and then it went in so I didn't look so bad," Thomas said.
"I did a little fit and gravity took over."
Two hours later he was celebrating victory.
"Major champion will never be taken away from my name," he said.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Justin Thomas was seven-years-old when he attended the 2000 PGA Championship in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky.
Watching Tiger Woods win, Thomas was hooked.
“That’s the first memory of me in terms of being live and being at a golf tournament,” he said after being crowned winner of the same championship 17 years later on Sunday.
“I wanted to play professional golf. Any kid, no matter whatever they are doing, they think they are going to be the best at it and they want to be the best.
“Being at the PGA that week, and hearing the roars and what Tiger was producing out there, I mean that week was the reason that I (decided) this is really what I want to do.”
Thomas was in the clubhouse when Woods made a crucial putt at the 72nd hole to force a playoff.
“(Woods) hit the putt on camera and before it can fall in on TV I can just hear the roar outside. I’ll never forget that.
“It’s crazy to be sitting up here now after watching him do his champion’s toast and hoping that I’m there one day – and I am.”
Thomas said his parents did not push him to play golf, but he always loved it and never seriously considered pursuing another sport.
“I was lucky to have supportive parents,” he said. “It was set up for golf to be in my bones. They are the reason I’m sitting up here right now.”
Thomas, one of the longest hitters on tour, has a powerful swing and a deft short-game touch.
He started this season with a bang, winning three times early and looked set to make a challenge in the majors.
After finished tied for 22nd at the Masters, fading in the final round at the U.S. Open to tie for ninth and missing the cut at the British Open, Thomas finally made the major breakthrough on Sunday.
It does not seem so long ago that he was playing for a dollar against his father.
“I was at a young age but I wanted to beat him and he wanted to beat me,” Thomas said.
“It was pretty heated out there. I’m a pretty sore loser and did not handle it well when I lost and had to give up a dollar.
“It probably came from my dad’s pocket anyway.”
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Hideki Matsuyama was in the thick of the battle for the PGA Championship at Quail Hollow on Sunday but finished three back in his quest to become the first Japanese male to win a golf major.
Matsuyama was locked in a five-way tie for the lead early on the back nine but some wayward approach shots led to bogeys, while American playing companion Justin Thomas caught fire to win the title by two shots.
The crowd at Quail Hollow hollered loud encouragement for  24-year-old Thomas, but there were also cheers for Matsuyama, who was followed by scores of Japanese media, television crews, photographers and reporters, every step of the way.
Japanese golf fans also turned out to support the 25-year-old and perhaps witness an historic breakthrough.
"If he wins, it will be the first time for a Japanese champion in a major," Tommy, on a vacation to the United States from Kobe, told Reuters at the 13th hole. "Japanese people are hoping he can win to get the victory today."
Tommy, who wore a Srixon cap just like Matsuyama, said a victory by Matsuyama could have a big impact on golf in Japan.
"When Kei Nishikori, the tennis player, a few years ago was a finalist at the U.S. Open most of the younger generation joined in playing tennis. I think the same thing is going to happen."
Matsuyama bogeyed the 13th for his third successive bogey but the bounced back with two birdies.
Meg, sitting near the tee box at the 16th, was at the tournament with her American husband and their two children. She said she was most interested in watching Matsuyama.
"I’m sure everybody is watching him now right now on TV and everybody’s proud of him," said Meg, who is from Tokyo.
Trailing by three at the last, Matsuyama fired a bold shot at the pin from long distance and just missed holing it, drawing a loud groan from the thousands packed around the green. He finished with a one-over 72.
Afterwards, Matsuyama was emotional about his near miss at claiming Japan's first men's major.
"I'm very, very disappointed," a teary-eyed Matsuyama told reporters. "I was in the lead. I didn't think I would feel pressure. But there was pressure.
"Maybe this experience is what I need to be winning the next time."
Two Japanese fans sitting behind the 18th green said they were proud of him.
"He did a great job. It was wonderful. He tried and he kept his concentration to the 18th hole. We are proud of him," said Emiko Suzuki, sitting alongside her husband.
Johnny, who emigrated from Nagoya with Emiko to live in Henderson, North Carolina, remained a strong supporter of Matsuyama.
"I’m confident he will be the first Japanese man to win a major," he said. "It will be soon."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - While Jordan Spieth failed in his bid to become the youngest player to win all four majors, South Africa's Louis Oosthuizen completed a somewhat unwelcome career grand slam of his own on Sunday with his second-place finish at the PGA Championship.
Oosthuizen, who finished tied for second behind Justin Thomas alongside Francesco Molinari and Patrick Reed, lost a playoff to Bubba Watson at the 2012 Masters, another playoff to Zach Johnson at the British Open in 2015 and tied for second behind Dustin Johnson at that year's U.S. Open too.
Oosthuizen had flashed into contention late in the final round on Sunday when he pitched in for eagle from 20 yards at the par-five 15th at Quail Hollow, but a long three-putt bogey from nearly 100 feet at the 16th ended his hopes.
"I gave it everything I had coming in," he said. "I left myself with an impossible first putt on 16. I mean, I didn't really make any putts the whole round.
"The only putt I made was on the last hole (for birdie)."
That five-footer gave Oosthuizen a round of 70 and a six-under 278 total, two strokes behind Thomas.
Oosthuizen's victory at the 2010 British Open, when he finished seven strokes clear, suggested the floodgates were about to open for the sweet-swinging South African but the 34-year-old has not kicked on in the majors the way many had expected.
Oosthuizen is in fine company with his runner-up slam, joining the likes of Greg Norman, who lost playoffs in all four majors.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Rory McIlroy said he was considering a break from golf to deal with a back muscle injury that left his left arm numb after his final round at the PGA Championship on Sunday.
"Right now I can feel my left rhomboid going into spasm. It's sort of the way it has been the last few weeks," world number four McIlroy said after shooting a three-under-par 68 at Quail Hollow to finish one over for the year's last major.
"It's a tough one because I go out there and play and shoot decent scores but when I come off the course I feel my left rhomboid going into spasm. Inside of my left arm goes numb."
The Northern Irishman injured the muscle in his upper back early this year in South Africa and had treatment on it, but was bothered again by the injury at The Players Championship in May.
"So I don't know what to do. I have got this next week off to assess what I need to go forward," he said, adding that he would consult with his trainer, Steve McGregor, who is a doctor, and consider his options.
"I'm flying home to Northern Ireland tonight. I'll catch up with Steve McGregor this week," McIlroy said.
"Just sort of have a chat with him about it and see what we need to do going forward. But the more I play, it's just not allowing that time to heal 100 percent.
"An injury like this, it's eight full weeks of rest before you start to rehab it and then you go again."
Last year McIlroy finished the season in high style, winning the Tour Championship finale and claimed the $10-million bonus prize for winning the FedExCup playoffs.
McIlroy said he might decide to skip the FedExCup events, which begin later this month.
"I feel like I'm capable and playing well enough to give myself a chance in it. At the same time, April is a long way away. That's the next big thing on my radar," he said, alluding to the Masters, the major he needs to complete a career grand slam.
McIlroy said he took the time he needed at the start of the year to heal and felt okay through the Masters in April but, after taking time off for his wedding and honeymoon, plunged back into training and did not build up the volume gradually.
"I went from zero to hitting balls for three or four hours a day. That aggravated it a little bit," he said.
"It's there. I can feel it. I can play 18 holes. I warm it up, it's okay. But once I get done, having to go through the whole routine of getting it ready to go again the next day, you shouldn't have to do that.
"If I want to challenge on a more consistent basis, I need to get 100 percent healthy."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - The father of PGA Championship winner Justin Thomas said his son's triumph on Sunday would be "huge" for him, unlocking the potential of the temperamental and impatient 24 year old.
Thomas held his nerve to claim his maiden major title by firing a three-under 68 on Sunday at Quail Hollow to win by two strokes.
The victory may also have struck a personal chord for Thomas as he captured the crown most dearly wanted by his friend and longtime junior golf rival Jordan Spieth, who needs the PGA to complete his career grand slam of major professional titles.
"This is huge. This is huge," said Mike Thomas, a PGA professional. Just lets him know he can do this."
Thomas's veteran caddie Jimmy Johnson agreed.
"What he learned is that he’s got to play his game and not force it. Let the course come to him and play a little smarter," Johnson told reporters. "He was trying too hard maybe. Just letting his potential go through him now, hopefully."
Thomas had already proven he belonged on the PGA Tour with three tournament titles this year.
But he trailed fellow 24-year-old Spieth 3-0 in the majors department and often let his frustrations show on the golf course, impatient to show he was among the best.
Mike Thomas said he could sense his son was ready for the big occasion on Sunday.
"It was like, OK, I got this," said the elder Thomas, the head professional at Harmony Landing Country Club in Goshen, Kentucky, since 1990. "I could see in his eyes out there early on in the round, in his body language."
Mike Thomas said he spent a lot of time talking to his son about handling his competitive fire and emotions on the course.
"Justin's very fiery, he's very emotional, he's very aggressive," the winner's father said. "When you're that way and it doesn’t work out, it can go in the other direction pretty quick.
"We spent the last year talking about 'are you emotional or are you angry? Let’s make a distinction here.' I mean, he’s 24. He’s got to be more mature.
"He showed a lot of maturity this week. Yesterday was the day he did not play very well and his maturity allowed him to grind out a score out there."
Thomas made the most of Saturday's round, registering a 69 that kept him within two shots of the lead.
With Thomas' father and grandfather Paul both PGA members, having his maiden major come at the PGA had added significance.
"This is really special, it’s pretty cool," said Mike Thomas. Yeah, having my dad being a PGA member and still alive I’m sure when I turn my phone on it’s going to be pretty blown up. I mean, it’s pretty cool."I'm sure he‘s watching at home, though he might be napping by now."
BARCELONA (Reuters) - Cristiano Ronaldo scored a sensational goal and was then sent off for a combination of his provocative celebration and for diving as Real Madrid beat Barcelona 3-1 in an explosive  Spanish Super Cup first leg on Sunday.
Gerard Pique scored an own goal early in the second half to give Real the lead in the annual curtain raiser between the Liga champions and the King's Cup holders although Lionel Messi looked to have saved his blushes by scoring a controversial penalty in the 77th minute after Luis Suarez was fouled.
Substitute Ronaldo rattled in a sensational strike from outside the area three minutes later to restore the Liga and European champions' advantage, earning a booking for removing his shirt and mimicking Messi's celebration at the Santiago Bernabeu in last April's Clasico.
Ronaldo was given a second yellow card moments later for diving to attempt to win a penalty and will miss Wednesday's second leg at the Bernabeu. After he was ordered off, the Portuguese pushed referee Ricardo De Burgos Bengoetxea in frustration.
Barca rallied late in search of an equaliser but Spanish forward Marco Asensio instead extended Madrid's advantage in the tie with a scorching strike from outside the area in the 90th minute to cap a thrilling second half.
"These games are like this, you switch off for one second and relax and loads of things happen, but I'm very happy with the game," said Real captain Sergio Ramos.
"We're fighting for a trophy and this is an important step."
Barca midfielder Sergio Busquets said: "A 3-1 defeat at home is very difficult to take; the tie seems very tough for us now but we'll try and make a go of it, even though we've made it almost impossible for us.
"Whoever scores first in these games has a huge advantage, and Madrid did very well on the counter-attack."
The highly entertaining second period was in stark contrast to a sleepy opening 45 minutes which lacked the atmosphere associated with football’s biggest rivalry due to the game not selling out and with a large number of tourists present.
Barca failed to sparkle, with Gerard Deulofeu proving an unfit substitute for the departed Neymar, while Real looked lightweight up front without Ronaldo, who began on the bench, and lacking creativity in the absence of the suspended Luka Modric.
The game burst into life after the break, however.
Pique, who scored the winner in the pre-season Clasico in Miami and who has so often turned up the heat in the rivalry both on and off the pitch, inadvertently broke the deadlock by diverting Marcelo’s cross into his own net.
Barca suddenly woke up and were denied an equaliser due to a brilliant double save by Real goalkeeper Keylor Navas.
The Costa Rican was left fuming moments later though when he was adjudged to have brought down Suarez, with the Uruguayan appearing to dive to win the penalty.
Messi levelled from the spot, scoring for the first time against Real at the Nou Camp since 2012, but he was soon upstaged at the other end by Ronaldo.
Asensio had the last word, however, the 21-year-old producing a stunning strike and putting Madrid well in charge in their pursuit of a first Super Cup since 2012.
TORONTO (Reuters) - Ukrainian Elina Svitolina capped a remarkable week in Toronto by beating Dane Caroline Wozniacki 6-4 6-0 at the Rogers Cup on Sunday to capture her tour-leading fifth title of the season.
Fifth seed Svitolina, whose run to the final included wins over Venus Williams, Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza and defending champion Simona Halep, used a strong return game throughout the 77-minute match to beat sixth seed Wozniacki.
"It was an incredible week. Played against great players, I beat them, and it's just something really amazing and I am very, very tired," said Svitolina, who was playing her third match in two days after rain pushed her quarter-final to Saturday.
"I left everything out there. It's been incredible that I could go through this. I didn't even think that I could."
The 22-year-old Ukrainian was so doubtful that she could even reach the final that she had a flight booked on Friday to the next tournament in Cincinnati.
But Svitolina showed she clearly belonged, using a mix of powerful groundstrokes and an impressive return game to secure her fourth victory over a top-10 opponent this week.
With the win, Svitolina will move up one spot to a career-high world number four when the new rankings are released on Monday.
Svitolina, who has yet to lose in a final this year, broke Wozniacki three times during the first set and another three times during a lopsided second set to deny the former world number one her first title since last October.
Wozniacki was playing in her sixth final of 2017 but the 2010 Rogers Cup champion has yet to come out on top following losses at Doha, Dubai, Miami, Eastbourne and Bastad.
LONDON (Reuters) - Kenyan Hellen Obiri produced an astonishing last lap to break Almaz Ayana's resistance, win the 5,000 meters at the World Athletics Championships and claim her first major title on Sunday.
Ethiopia's Ayana, winner of the 10,000 meters at the championships, and Obiri broke clear of the pack after one third of the race and opened up a huge gap as they set a blistering pace.
Ayana led with Obiri on her tail into the final lap until the Kenyan, silver medalist in Rio de Janeiro last year, suddenly burst past with 300 meters left and stormed home to win in 14:34.86, more than five seconds clear of her rival.
Sifan Hassan of the Netherlands prevented an East African clean sweep by taking the bronze.
LONDON (Reuters) - Sebastian Coe said he felt huge sympathy for Usain Bolt after the Jamaican pulled up with a hamstring problem during his final event on Saturday, but believes the great sprinter's departure will open the door for new talent to shine.
"It's a devastating moment if you are mid-race and that happens, it's horrible," the IAAF president told a news conference ahead of the last night's action at the World Athletics Championships on Sunday.
Bolt pulled up while running the anchor leg for Jamaica in the 4x100 relay, his final race before retiring. He will do a farewell lap of honor in the London Stadium on Sunday evening before heading into retirement.
"I do think this gives us an opportunity to cast a light on the young talent that's out there," Coe said.
"I can't remember a time when the competition has been so competitive and the stories around them so compelling," he added.
"We have had some of the youngest-ever medalists and the  emergence of such extraordinary young talent is what many people will remember this event for," Coe said.
"This is a really comforting place to be in at a time when we are asking what the sport looks like after Mo (Farah) and Bolt and for example with the emergence of (American 100 meters silver medalist) Christian Coleman we may be looking at the future face of sprinting for the next five years."
Coleman was beaten by compatriot Justin Gatlin and large numbers of the 60,000 crowd that packed the stadium each evening loudly booed the man who has served two drug suspensions.
Ed Warner, co-chairman of the London 2017 organizing committee, was surprised by the extent of the booing but understood the reasons.
"My view as the organizer is the fans have the right to come and express their views about doping in our sport and people feel very passionate about it," he said.
Coe said he did not like to hear jeering but accepted that fans felt strongly about the issue.
"I would rather not see athletes who have tested positive winning some of the biggest titles in our sport but he is entitled to be here," he said.
"I don't think the IAAF has singled Gatlin out but we’re not here to choreograph public opinion.
"I thought in a way the athletes took the lead in a dignified way that Usain dealt with he situation took some of the tension out of the response by the time we get to the medal ceremony."
After two years during which the sport has been battered by doping and corruption issues Coe said he felt the last 10 days had helped the process of recovery.
"I'm speaking to federations, coaches and athletes more than ever before and my instinct is that there is a confidence and people are proud to be involved and seen to be involved in athletics," he said.
Coe believes the sport needed to learn lessons from the success of London and apply them to the Diamond League and other events and create a calendar that everybody can understand.
"If we don don’t get those things right then everything we've achieved here will be a happy memory but won’t be a springboard," he said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's Olympic and world champion Mo Farah said the British media were trying to destroy his achievements and repeated that he was a clean athlete during an emotional outburst on Sunday.
"It's like I have achieved what I have achieved and you are trying to destroy it," he told reporters. "You guys, so many times towards me, you have been unfair. I don't know why."
Farah won silver in Saturday's 5,000 meters at the World Athletics Championships -- his final track race of a career in which he won two successive Olympic 10,000 and 5,000 gold medal doubles.
The 34-year-old, who was born in Somalia and moved to Britain at the age of eight, has also won three world titles each in the 5,000 meters and 10,000 meters.
In February, Farah's coach Alberto Salazar denied administering banned supplements to his athletes and issued a firm rebuttal of what he said were false allegations against him in a British newspaper.
The Sunday Times had reported that Salazar had used prohibited infusions of supplements to improve the performance of his runners, citing what the newspaper said was a leaked United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) report.
Farah has repeatedly denied wrongdoing.
"It's like a broken record repeating myself," said Farah when the subject was brought up on Sunday. "If I have crossed the line, and Mo Farah has done something wrong, then prove it."
"You can write what you like but I'm a clean athlete... and I sleep well at night, loving my kids, hugging my kids, showing (them) what's right. That's all that counts."
Farah, speaking calmly but looking exasperated, said his achievements spoke for themselves.
"History doesn't lie -- everybody's proud of me," he said.
"The fact is, I work hard at what I do and I achieve (it) through hard work... putting my balls on the line, year after year, and delivering for my country, and for the people out there."
"I'm going to still keep fighting, keep working, making my country proud," said Farah, who will now concentrate on running marathons. "I am proud to be British and put my GB vest on and do it for my country."
LONDON (Reuters) - Eider Arevalo won Colombia’s first gold of the World Championships on Sunday by triumphing in the men’s 20 kilometer walk.
The 24-year-old continued his unbeaten run over this distance in 2017 by crossing the line, wearing his country’s flag as a cape, in a national record time of one hour, 18 minutes and 53 seconds.
Russian Sergey Shirobokov, competing as an authorized neutral athlete, shadowed Arevalo for most of the race but faded on the final lap on The Mall.
The 2015 youth champion still managed a late surge to finish two seconds behind Arevalo to take silver in his debut senior World Championships.
Caio Bonfim repeated his performance from the Pan American Games two years ago to take bronze in 1:19:04 for Brazil’s first medal of any color at the championships in London.
But the day belonged to Arevalo who was in the thick of the leading pack as it dwindled down from eight at the 15km split, to three in the final kilometer.
Arevalo showed a huge improvement on his last 20km showing on this course at the London 2012 Olympics where he finished 20th.
(Reuters) - Ducati's Andrea Dovizioso held off MotoGP points leader Marc Marquez to claim his third victory of the season at the Austrian Grand Prix on Sunday.
Dovizioso, who started on a soft rear tire, took the lead with seven laps to the finish line and maintained a slender advantage over Honda riders Marquez and Dani Pedrosa, who completed the podium.
"It was difficult this weekend," Dovizioso said. "The battle was really nice. We controlled the race for the tyres. Three victories this season... it's really good!"
Marquez, who won the last two races, made a late challenge on Dovizioso in the final corner but the Italian defended well to win the duel and move up to second spot in the battle for the world title.
"I was on the limit, pushing a lot. The last corner was completely on the limit, but this is MotoGP. This is the show. No worries. Next time we'll try again," said Marquez.
Dovizioso's team mate Jorge Lorenzo finished fourth despite taking an early lead in dry conditions at the Red Bull Ring, while Johann Zarco finished fifth.
Yamaha endured a disappointing afternoon with Maverick Vinales and Valentino Rossi taking the sixth and seventh spot, respectively.
Alvaro Bautista secured an eighth-placed finish for Aspar Ducati, with Avintia Ducati's Loris Baz ended ninth.
KTM wildcard Mika Kallio beat last year's winner Andrea Iannone to the 10th spot.
World champion Marquez leads the overall standings with 174 points, 16 ahead of second-placed Dovizioso. Vinales slipped to third spot with 150 points, followed by Rossi on 141.
LONDON (Reuters) - Yang Jiayu raced to gold in a thrilling finish to the 20km walk at the World Athletics Championships on Sunday but her compatriot Lyu Xiuzhi learned she had been dramatically disqualified when meters away from winning the bronze medal.
Yang upped the pace over the last 100 meters on the Mall to power away from Mexico's Maria Guadalupe Gonzalez and finish a mere one second clear in 1 hours 26 minutes 18 seconds, a superb triumph for the 21-year-old in her maiden senior championship.
Yet Lyu, perhaps favorite for the title, did not realize she had already received a third red card for a late infringement -- meaning automatic disqualification -- as she was still racing home just behind Gonzalez.
As she was less than 20 meters from the line believing the bronze medal was in her grasp, a senior official stepped out in front of her to confirm her disqualification.
It meant that Antonella Palmisano, who had been broken by the leading trio just as they started the last of the 10 two kilometer loops between Admiralty Arch and Buckingham Palace on The Mall came home for the bronze in 1:26.36, Italy's first medal of the championships.
"I feel really excited," said Yang. "I started race walking at the age of 14. Now I hope to be the future of race walking in China."
Yet she had time to spare a thought for her disqualified team mate. "I feel sorry for Lyu. Maybe she'll get to win a competition soon," she said.
The result was also tough on former boxer Gonzalez, who had also missed out on gold at last year's Rio Olympics by just two seconds. Her consolation was in becoming only the second Mexican woman to medal at the world championships after Ana Guevara, the former 400 meters champion.
"I did all I could but the Chinese athlete was better in the final part. It was very close but we made it a fight to the line."
She, too, spared a thought for Lyu. "She is an excellent race walker who continues to work hard. It is a difficult moment for her but she'll be ready and stronger in the next few years."
Palmisano, who was fourth at last year's Olympics, was delighted to this time make the podium in unexpected fashion.
"I was only concentrated on myself. I feel sorry for Lyu but I wanted that medal and now I have it," she said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Yohann Diniz produced an astonishing solo tour de force to become the oldest man ever to become a world athletics champion at the age of 39 as he won the 50 kilometer walk title on Sunday.
The French world record holder, one of the great figures of race walking, produced the second fastest walk in history, 3 hours 33 minutes 12 seconds -- a time only he has bettered -- with one of the performances of the entire World Championships.
Diniz was so dominant en route to his long-awaited first global title that he lapped nearly all the 43-strong field over the 2km looped circuit on The Mall, finishing less than a minute adrift of his three-year-old world record of 3:32:33.
He was even able to take a swift comfort break when leading in the first 15 minutes before rejoining the race and destroying his opponents over the 25 laps between Admiralty Arch and Buckingham Palace.
A great showman, father of two Diniz was even able to smile and wave to the crowds lining the course well before the finish as he landed a third gold of the championships for France.
He blew kisses towards Buckingham Palace on the last circuit, turning it into a glorified lap of honor, and approached the line while making a scarf out of a tricolor he had grabbed from the crowd before then hoisting it aloft to celebrate his new championship record.
He had only one moment of concern when he received a red card for an infringement at about the 20km mark. "I started having doubts but in training, we have been doing lots of changes of rhythms, so I just kept going.
"I got a card too and I thought 'I just must not mess this up.' I just concentrated completely on my technique.
"Last night I kept away from watching the athletics on TV because I did not want to get too excited. I went to bed at nine because I knew it was going to be my day!"
His eight-minute gap over his two distant Japanese pursuers, silver medalist Hirooki Arai (3:41:17) and bronze medalist Kai Kobayashi (3:41:19), was by far the biggest ever recorded in the championships.
Diniz became the oldest male world champion in any event, surpassing another walker, 37-year-old Veniamin Soldatenko. The Soviet athlete won a specially-staged 50km event in Malmo in 1976, seven years before Helsinki staged the first global championships.
Belarussian Ellina Zvereva holds the overall record of being the oldest world champion, having won the women's discus in 2001 at the age of 40.
Diniz's triumph, the first ever in race walking by a Frenchman, came a year after his heartbreak in the Rio Olympic final when he led by nearly two minutes before he collapsed at 37km with heatstroke, dehydration and gastric problems.
He was then hailed as a hero as he got up, insisted on continuing and, incredibly, finished the race in eighth place.
When Diniz competed on this same course on the Mall during the 2012 Olympics, he had been forced to pull out during the race.
His familiar all-or-nothing approach had seen the three-time European champion Diniz miss out in five previous global championships but for a man famed for being a wine-making expert, this was a champagne moment.
Would it not perhaps be the perfect time to retire on a high, he was asked. "It is a lovely Sunday afternoon. I know you should never take any decision when you are hot," he smiled.
"I am still missing one title and that is the Olympic one. It would be a nice way to finish in Tokyo."
LONDON (Reuters) - Ines Henriques smashed her own world record by more than two minutes to win the inaugural women’s 50 kilometer race walk at the World Championships on Sunday.
The 37-year-old crossed the finishing line at The Mall in 4 hours, 5 minutes and 56 seconds, obliterating her previous best of 4:08:26 which she set in January after the IAAF ratified conditions for a women’s 50km record.
Henriques dominated the race to win her first major global title, and the first race walking title to go to a Portuguese woman.
Draped in the flag of her country, she was embraced after the finishing line by a member of her team and cheered generously by the crowds lined up all the way down from Buckingham Palace.
"It is great that the 50km is at the World Championships despite the fact that it is a really hard event," Henriques told reporters.
"The last 5kms were really tough. My goal was to go under 4 hours and 6 minutes, so I am really happy with this time.
"It felt like at home in London with so many Portuguese fans supporting me. I hope that in future we will see more women competing at this distance."
Athletes from China completed the podium. Yin Hang claimed silver with an Asian record of 4:08:58, while 20-year-old Yang Shuqing finished third with a personal best of 4:20:49.
The conditions were near-perfect for the athletes, who were competing at the same time as the men, with bright sunshine, clear skies and a cool breeze.
The IAAF introduced the women’s 50km to the program in July in order to ensure gender equality.
(Reuters) - Roger Federer used a dominant service game to beat Dutchman Robin Haase 6-3 7-6(5) in Montreal on Saturday, setting up a Rogers Cup final against German Alexander Zverev.
Haase, playing in his first ATP World Tour Masters 1000 semi-final, did well to force a second-set tiebreak but Federer proved too much to handle as the Swiss fired down nine aces and dropped only nine points on serve.
Federer, whose five titles this year include the Australian Open and Wimbledon, credited a positive mindset for helping him extend his winning streak to 16 matches.
"Confidence can get you a long way, and if you're feeling fine physically and you are ready to fight mentally you have a lot of things in the bag," said the 19-times grand slam champion.
"And then the only thing that maybe is missing is practice, but sometimes practice is overrated. It's all about the matches at some stage.
"I'm happy I'm playing as well as I am this year on the match courts. At the end that's what matters because I spent hours and hours on the practice courts in the last year."
Next up for the Swiss right-hander, who is seeking his third Rogers Cup title after triumphs in Toronto in 2004 and 2006, is Zverev after the fourth seed advanced with a 6-4 7-5 win over Canada's Denis Shapovalov.
Federer owns a 2-1 edge against Zverev in head-to-head meetings, most recently a 6-1 6-3 win at Halle in June.
Zverev ended Shapovalov's magical week on his third match point when the 18-year-old, who had been the story of the tournament after a stunning run that included an upset win over world number two Rafael Nadal, sent a backhand wide.
Shapovalov, who was born in Israel and moved to Canada before his first birthday, had a great chance at 4-3 in the second set but failed to convert on his three break points.
"I wasn't too sharp on the big points," said Shapovalov, who made headlines in February for inadvertently blasting a ball into an umpire's face in a fit of rage during a Davis Cup quarter-final.
"I had a couple looks at some second serves and I missed some returns. But at the end of the day he did a good job to make me play those points."
TORONTO (Reuters) - Ukrainian Elina Svitolina crushed defending champion Simona Halep 6-1 6-1 on Saturday to reach the Rogers Cup final in Toronto where she will face Dane Caroline Wozniacki.
Both Svitolina and Halep were competing on little rest after rain pushed their quarter-final clashes to Saturday but it was the Romanian who was worse for wear as she dropped her first set of the tournament en route to losing the match in 56 minutes.
Fifth seed Svitolina, who beat Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza 4-6 6-4 6-3 in the quarter-finals, used a strong serve and forehand to control the tempo against Halep.
The Romanian, who beat Frenchwoman Caroline Garcia 6-4 6-2 earlier on Saturday, showed some life in the sixth game of the second set when she fought off a match point and earned her only break but Svitolina quickly shut down any chance of a comeback.
"It was a very tough match for me mentally because it was the second time I was playing on this court today," said Svitolina.
"And physically it was very tough because she gets to lots of balls. I was just trying to be very focused on my game and just go for every shot."
Svitolina will go into the final against Wozniacki with plenty of confidence having a 2-0 career record against her.
Wozniacki, riding high after ousting world number one Karolina Pliskova, beat American Sloane Stephens 6-2 6-3 to secure her spot in the final.
The sixth seed carried the momentum from her win over Pliskova into the match with Stephens, who was playing in only her third event after missing 11 months with a foot injury.
Rogers Cup champion in 2010, Wozniacki had an aggressive gameplan from the start, racing out to a 5-1 lead and then overcoming a brief wobble before wrapping up the first set.
She jumped into a 3-1 lead in the second set before allowing Stephens to rally back. But the 27-year-old Dane found her footing and served out the match after a brief rain delay at 5-3 to clinch victory in 80 minutes.
LONDON (Reuters) - Australia's Sally Pearson completed one of the great sporting comebacks when she overcame two years of injury agony to win the world 100 meters hurdles title at the age of 30 on Saturday.
Pearson, world champion in 2011 and Olympic gold medalist in London in 2012 and with Olympic and world silvers to her name, held off Dawn Harper Nelson, one of four Americans in the field, for an emotional triumph.
She missed the last two seasons due to hamstring and Achilles injuries and a badly broken wrist and feared for her career. But when she clocked 12.48 seconds in the London Diamond League last month - her fastest time for five years - she realized she was in medal-contending form.
She then underlined that by reaching the final as the fastest qualifier in 12.53 on Friday.
Pearson did not need to go that fast on Saturday but barely noticed the clock as she posted 12.59 seconds, screaming "oh my God" repeatedly after crossing the line.
"I've worked so hard, I don't know what has just happened out there. I'm so tired but I'm sure it will sink in soon," she said.
On her joyous finish-line exclamations, she said: "I don't know if it was surprise but the emotion just escaped my body because I was so excited and so happy to have achieved what I've worked so hard for.
"I love this stadium, I love the people and I'm so happy to be back here doing the same thing again."
Harper Nelson, the 2008 Olympic champion and silver medalist behind Pearson in 2012 took silver in 12.63 ahead of Germany’s Pamela Dutkiewicz, who claimed a surprise bronze in 12.72.
"I cannot believe it, it's crazy," said Dutkiewicz. "There were so many big names in the field and since I was a girl I have been admiring Sally Pearson.
"This is like in a film. I had a flow. I am glad I caught this moment of complete flow, of complete concentration. On the finish line I thought I had finished fourth - madness!"
Favorite Kendra Harrison, who set the world record in the London Stadium last year having missed out on Olympic selection, clattered too many barriers as she did in the semis and finished fourth in 12.74.
Pearson, racing in lane three outside Harrison, blasted from the blocks and showed all her experience to concentrate on her own race as Harrison faltered.
Former men's 110m hurdles world record holder Colin Jackson described the Australian's technique as "absolutely flawless" and that, combined with her famed winning mentality and now a body again able to match her mind, took her over the line.
Harrison, who was disqualified in the semis two years ago, had been unbeaten in 23 races until the semi-final in London on Friday but her wait for a championship medal goes on.
"I'm still young, this was my first world final, people forget that because I'm the world record holder," said the 24-year-old.
"They expect me to be winning all the time but I'm pleased to be in my first world final and have learned a lot."
Defending champion Danielle Williams of Jamaica failed to make the final while last year's Olympic champion Brianna Rollins, who led an American sweep of the Rio podium, is banned for a doping violation.
LONDON (Reuters) - Mo Farah's aura of invincibility after six years of unrelenting success was finally cracked in his very last major track race on Saturday as he lost his world 5,000 meters title to Ethiopia's Muktar Edris.
Seeking a fitting end to his matchless long-distance racing career before moving to marathon running, the 34-year-old Briton's bid for a fifth straight global 10,000/5,000m double was scuppered as he had to settle for the silver.
Yet even in defeat, Farah demonstrated his champion's spirit as he fought back in the dying meters when it looked as if he would be shut out of the medals completely.
In a thrilling finale featuring four athletes careering towards the line, Farah snatched back second place behind Edris, who clocked 13 minutes 32.79 seconds after a searing final lap of 52.6 seconds.
"I gave it all but I had nothing left at the end," a crestfallen and emotional Farah said.
"It's been a long journey but it's been incredible. It doesn't quite sink in until you compete here and cross the line - I had a couple of minutes to myself - that this is it.
"To be honest with you it takes so much out of me. It's not an excuse, but it took a lot more out of me than I realized."
It was a glorious win for 23-year-old Ethiopian Edris, the fastest man in the world this year, who had lost all his five previous meetings with Farah.
Yet just like Usain Bolt in the 100 meters the previous weekend, it did look a race too far for the weary Briton.
To rub in his victory after years of the Ethiopians being tormented by Farah's brilliance, Edris even gave an impression of his rival's famed "Mobot" celebration as he crossed the line.
"I was highly prepared for this race and I knew I was going to beat Mo Farah," Edris said.
"After the 10km he was maybe tired so he did not have enough for the last kick. I was stronger.
"I didn't have much support but we did it. I did the Mobot out of respect as well for him."
Behind Edris, Farah dug deep to battle back from fourth to second when space opened up on the inside over the last few meters to take silver in 13:33.22.
Kenyan-born American Paul Chelimo claimed bronze in 13:33.30 while Farah's late burst also consigned another Ethiopian Yomif Kejelcha to fourth place in 13:33.51.
It was a poignant sight after so many Farah celebrations down the years to see him lying on his back, exhausted and forlorn with his arm draped across his face, but his rivals were not about to let the moment pass without celebrating him.
Edris hauled Farah to his feet as his other rivals all wanted to give him a hug of consolation.
It was the great man's first defeat in a major championship race since the 2011 world 10,000 meters final when he also won silver - and, once again, it took dazzling speed to beat him over the last lap.
For once, Farah had been found wanting tactically in the denouement, failing to cover Kejelcha and Edris as they opened up a three-meter lead down the back straight.
Stretching out desperately to hold on but maybe feeling the exertions of his 10,000 meters title win eight days earlier when he was spiked and suffered a knee injury, Farah was also overtaken by Chelimo.
Down the home straight all looked lost for Farah as he appeared blocked in until Kejelcha drifted out from the inside lane trying to block Chelimo, which allowed the Briton the chance to battle through on the inside.
"Tactically, I was trying to cover every move," said Farah, after being consoled by his wife and four children at trackside.
"They had the game plan: one of them was going to sacrifice themselves. That's what they did tonight, and the better man won on the day.
"My legs had it on the home straight. I got boxed in early on - it doesn't normally happen - and couldn't get out."
LONDON (Reuters) - Right at the last, Mo Farah's unbeatable air could not stand up  to another examination by the world's best distance runners as he was denied one final global triumph in his farewell championship track race on Saturday.
As the Briton was consoled -- and congratulated on a peerless track career -- by his competitors following his world 5,000 meters silver in the stadium where his legend was first properly sculpted in 2012, the only question that remained was where he stands in the annals of track distance running.
There is a powerful argument to say, after 10 straight global championship victories stretching back to the 2011 world 5,000 meters triumph in Daegu, that the 34-year-old is the greatest distance racer we have ever seen on the track.
Despite his defeat on Saturday, his ability, time and again, to fend off every challenge and tactic thrown at him -- from Ethiopian and Kenyan athletes ganging up on him to being spiked and bruised in physical races -- and still sprint to victory was unprecedented during an incredible six-year reign.
His ability to strike for home with that long, loping stride, anywhere from 600 meters to 100 meters out -- and then to find yet another gear when it seemed as if he was flat out -- marked him as a unique talent.
Yet being considered the best racer is very different from being seen as the greatest distance athlete of all-time.
Seb Coe, the president of the IAAF and a massive fan of Farah, set the ball rolling when declaring in Friday's Evening Standard newspaper that Haile Gebrselassie was the greatest.
"When it comes to the debate on the greatest distance runner of all time, I'm tough on this," said Coe, who himself is in the shake-up for the title best middle-distance runner of them all.
"For me, it's not Mo Farah — and that's not to do a disservice to Mo, who is one of the greats of all time.
"For me that still has to be Haile Gebrselassie, for the distances that he covered, the titles he won and the world records he broke."
In championship running, Farah won 10 on the trot before Saturday's setback, compared with Gebrselassie's six in a row at 10,000 meters and Kenenisa Bekele's best run of four championship wins in succession at both distances.
Yet the two Ethiopian greats also went chasing records to extraordinary effect, Bekele setting a total of three new world marks at 5,000m and 10,000m and Gebrselassie seven at the two events.
Farah has never been down that route, with his capacity for really fast times never examined.
It remains an extraordinary fact that the most successful championship runner ever at 5,000m with five global titles, is ranked only the 31st-fastest runner of all time, at 12 minutes 53.11 seconds. Bekele holds the world record at 12:37.35.
At 10,000 meters, in which Farah has also won a record five global golds, he is also still only the 16th-fastest (26:46.57), nearly half a minute down on Bekele's world record of 26:17.53.
Bekele, a year older than Farah at 35, won nine global golds, once went unbeaten for eight years at 10,000 meters, won 11 world cross-country titles and now holds the second-fastest marathon time in history (2 hours 3 minutes 3 seconds).
For the moment, even if Gebrselassie was the great Ethiopian trailblazer, it seems fair to rank Bekele the highest for his all-round achievements on the track, country and roads.
Yet Farah, who has run only one marathon, finishing eighth in London in 2014 in a relatively modest 2:08:21, believes he can make a big impact on the roads.
The most amazing tale in the annals of British athletics may not quite have run its course yet.
LONDON (Reuters) - Individual champion Tori Bowie anchored the United States to victory in the women's 4x100 meters relay at the World Championships on Saturday.
The Americans, Olympic gold medalists in Rio last year, were led off by Aaliyah Brown who flew out of the blocks to start the run that brought them the world title they last won in 2011.
Allyson Felix, part of that winning team in Daegu, ran the second leg before passing on to Morolake Akinosun who handed the baton to Bowie, the 100m world champion.
The 26-year-old had pulled out of competing in the 200m earlier in the week due to suffering cuts and bruises in her sprint triumph last Sunday.
However, she looked in no discomfort as she surged down the final straight to win in 41.82 seconds.
Bowie was shadowed all the way to the line by Briton Daryll Neita who led her team to silver, in 42.12, ahead of 2015 champions Jamaica who were missing their usual anchor runner in Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce.
It was the sixth time the U.S. have won the event and the gold was also a record 15th World Championship medal for Felix.
(Reuters) - The dream run of 13-year-old Chia Yen Wu ended when she lost her semi-final match at the U.S. Amateur Championship in California on Saturday.
Wu, the youngest ever player to reach a semi-final in the championship, ran out of steam, beaten 2-up by 21-year-old American Sophia Schubert.
Schubert will play 19-year-old Swiss Albane Valenzuela in the final at San Diego Country Club on Sunday.
"Today, (my) first nine, I think my muscles and my body felt tired, so my iron distance changed," said Wu, of Taiwan, whose quarter-final on Friday went an 12 extra holes, a record for a U.S. Golf Association event.
"I got tired, and I couldn't keep it in the fairway."
Valenzuela, meanwhile, could become the first player from Switzerland to win a USGA championship.
She advanced to the final with a 3&2 semi-final victory over American Lilia Kha-Tu Vu.
Valenzuela finished equal 21st at last year's Rio Olympics.
LONDON (Reuters) - Maria Lasitskene became the first Russian to win a gold medal at the World Championships in London after successfully defending her high jump title on Saturday, and said that she still hopes to break the long-standing world record this season.
The 24-year-old, competing as an authorized neutral athlete, stretched her unbeaten streak to 25 competitions by clearing 2.03 meters to triumph in the London Stadium.
Having already secured gold, Lasitskene tried to beat the Russian national record and her own personal best by jumping 2.08m. But despite her intense concentration before each jump, she failed on all three attempts.
Still, it was a comfortable triumph for the athlete who missed out on going for her first Olympic title last year following her country's ban from the Rio Games after a WADA report exposed widespread doping in Russian athletics.
"A gold medal here was my main goal for this season but certainly I would like to raise the bar a bit higher. I didn't like any one of my attempts at 2.08m," she said.
"I hope I still have potential to break the world record this season," she added of the 2.09m mark set by Bulgaria's Stefka Kostadinova 30 years ago.
Yuliia Levchenko of Ukraine won her first major global medal by taking silver on Saturday after clearing a personal best height of 2.01m, while Kamila Licwinko of Poland, who jumped 1.99m, won bronze to pick up her maiden major outdoor medal.
"I am super excited for my first major medal from an outdoor championships. I am hungry to stay up here now and want to jump more and more," Licwinko said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Germany's Johannes Vetter won the javelin at the World Athletics Championships on Saturday as his great rival and Olympic champion Thomas Rohler missed out on the podium.
Vetter's opening throw of 89.89 meters was enough to win the gold and the 24-year-old was overcome with emotion after clinching the title, mopping his tears on a German flag.
Czech Republic pair Jakub Vadlejch and Petr Frydrych threw personal bests of 89.73 and 88.32 respectively to take silver and bronze.
Rohler, who like Vetter has thrown over 90 meters this season, was beaten into fourth with 88.26.
LONDON (Reuters) - Frenchman Kevin Mayer led throughout the day to win the world decathlon title on Saturday and fill the void left by Ashton Eaton's retirement -- although he nearly threw it all away on the pole vault.
German pair Rico Freimuth and Kai Kazmirek took silver and bronze while twice former world champion Trey Hardee was one of more than a dozen of the original 35 starters who dropped out over the course of the notoriously tough contest.
Olympic silver medallist Mayer led from the shot put on Friday morning and looked to be cruising to his first world gold until he decided to skip the opening pole vault heights and enter the fray at 5.10.
The move nearly proved disastrous as he missed his first two attempts, then grazed the bar on his third.
Despite an unnerving wobble, the bar stayed in place and Mayer avoided a zero score which would have wrecked his chances, instead increasing his lead over Rico
He comfortably came through the javelin and 1,500 metres, the final of the 10 events staged over two exhausting days, to see himself safely home.
Mayer finished on 8,768 points with Freimuth, with 8,564 and Kai Kazmirek 8,488, taking the silver and bronze medals.
Hardee, fifth overnight, pulled out after a miserable morning in which he failed to pick up any points in the first two events.
He clattered into the third hurdle in the 110 metres hurdles, then produced three foul throws in the discus before calling it a day.
The event was left open by the retirement earlier this year of American Ashton Eaton, who had dominated recently, winning the last two Olympic and world titles.
Canadian Damian Warner, often seen as the man most likely to break Eaton's dominance, finished fifth.
LONDON (Reuters) - Athletics chiefs in Ethiopia are not worried about doping problems in the sport and are dealing with them strongly, a senior official said on Saturday.
The east African nation and neighboring Kenya have been rocked by a number of positive doping tests in recent years and both countries were placed in "critical care" by the athletics authorities over their drug-testing systems.
“It (doping) is not worrying us. The few cases that emerged were dealt with squarely and decisively and we have launched a major education programme among young athletes because we know knowledge is power,” Bililign Mekoya, Secretary General of Ethiopian Athletics Federation (EAF), told Reuters.
"We are working with our Kenyan counterparts, our national anti-doping organization and the IAAF to get to root out doping," he added.
"It does not threaten us now. Our government has done a great job and we are confident that it won’t take root in Ethiopia."
Ethiopia and Kenya have introduced legislation to criminalize doping. More than 40 Kenyan athletes have tested positive in the past five years.
Jos Hermens, who manages many of Ethiopia's elite runners, said doping cases were not as many as had been reported.
“We are working with authorities to attack the (doping) matter. Africa does not need doping, they always produce good athletes," the Dutchman said.
"We are working with Haile Gebrselassie in Ethiopia and Paul Tergat in Kenya. Reports doing rounds about doping, particularly in Ethiopia, are disgraceful,” he added.
Gebrselassie, the former Olympic and world champion long-distance runner, has said previously that dopers should be jailed for life.
“Doping cases in Ethiopia were so few, compared to Kenya, but that does not mean they were ignored," he said.
"We will catch them. Some unscrupulous doctors and pharmacists have been misleading young athletes, but we will soon attack and deal with them,” Gebrselassie added.
(Reuters) - Caroline Wozniacki defeated world number one Karolina Pliskova 7-5 6-7(3) 6-4 in a marathon Rogers Cup quarter-finals match in Toronto marred by four rain delays on Friday.
The delays, which all came during the first set, appeared to boost the sixth-seeded Dane, who was trailing 3-0 when the match was interrupted.
Wozniacki appeared relaxed during the breaks, which gave her time to consult with her father and longtime coach Piotr Wozniacki, before she won five straight games and ultimately took the first set.
"Almost every tournament I've played this year there has been a rain delay so at this point I just have to laugh because I feel like it is following me," she said during a courtside interview after the three hour 26 minute match.
"Every time this year when it has been raining I've had a great tournament, so I thought this must be luck."
The delays and Wozniacki's solid all-around game appeared to throw off the big-serving Pliskova, who was playing in her first tournament since becoming the world number one.
The victory marks Wozniacki's first career win against a world number one and gives the 27-year-old a 6-2 advantage in head-to-head matches with Pliskova.
Wozniacki next faces Sloane Stephens after the American  beat Czech Lucie Safarova 6-2 1-6 7-5.
The remaining two quarters will be decided on Saturday.
Fourth-seeded Spaniard Garbine Muguruza is one set up against Elina Svitolina of Ukraine, winning the opener 6-4, while Simona Halep has yet to start her match against Caroline Garcia.
(Reuters) - Roger Federer reached the Rogers Cup semi-finals on Friday after coming to the net early and often in a straight sets victory over Roberto Bautista Agut on a windy day in Montreal.
World number three Federer, who faces Dutchman Robin Haase in the last four, was never seriously pushed by Spain's Bautista Agut, who is winless in seven matches against the Swiss maestro.
"I think it pays off playing aggressive here in Montreal," Federer said in a courtside interview after his 6-4 6-4 win over the 12th seed.
"Plus I feel comfortable at the net so why not spend some time up there instead of slugging it out from the baseline?"
Federer opened the second set with a break and cruised through the rest of the match, which lasted just over an hour.
With world number two Rafael Nadal eliminated on Thursday by 18-year-old Canadian Denis Shapovalov and world number one Andy Murray sidelined by a rib injury, Federer has an opportunity to regain his world number one ranking.
He would need to win the Rogers Cup and have an equal or better finish than Nadal at the Western & Southern Open in Cincinnati next week to become the world number one on Aug. 21.
"Now that Rafa is out I know I can make big strides, especially if I was to go further than the semis here. But it's all connected to great play," said the Australian Open and Wimbledon champion.
In the other quarter-finals, Shapovalov came from a set down to beat Adrian Mannarino of France 2-6 6-3 6-4, and Germany's Alexander Zverev dismissed South Africa's Kevin Anderson in straight sets, 7-5 6-4.
Earlier, Haase recovered to defeat Argentine Diego Schwartzman 4-6 6-3 6-3 in their quarter-final.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Hideki Matsuyama charged into position to become the first Japanese man to win a major after joining Kevin Kisner in the second-round lead on eight-under-par at the PGA Championship on Friday.
Matsuyama took advantage of greens softened by an afternoon storm, reeling off five birdies in a six-hole stretch with a series of pinpoint approach shots to card a seven-under-par 64, a course record in light of the redesign of Quail Hollow before the championship.
He and American Kisner, who earlier fired a near-flawless 67, are two strokes ahead of Australian Jason Day (66), back in form after a recent flat patch.
"I was grateful for the rain delay because I was getting tired. I was able to lay down in the locker room and get some rest," world number three Matsuyama said.
"I think what was making me tired was I wasn't hitting my driver like I wanted to. I was hitting fairways but I wasn't getting the crisp contact that I was hoping for with my driver."
Matsuyama, the pressure of an entire country on his shoulders, said he did not know whether he would be nervous over the weekend.
"This is my first experience leading a major, or tied for the lead after 36 holes. And so being a new experience, maybe I'll be a little nervous, but on the other hand, I'm looking forward to the weekend and seeing how I do."
Kisner, meanwhile, used his 'Texas wedge' from off the green to sink a 47-foot putt at the par-five seventh -- his 16th hole -- and vault clear of the field, at least for a while.
The 33-year-old from South Carolina has won twice on the PGA Tour, and has also lost four times in playoffs.
Recent hard work tweaking his swing is paying off.
"I’ve always fought a push to the right and got sick and tired of it,” he said. “Hitting fairways are key.
“I’m hitting the ball really nice and things are going my way. The bad shots are working out and the good shots are working out and I’m making a lot of putts.”
Day, the 2015 champion, ran down the final fairway to finish before darkness completely enveloped the course, the result of the earlier near two-hour stoppage that prevented 26 players from completing their round.
"It was nice to be able to drive the way I did today and set myself up with the opportunities and being able to capitalize on those opportunities felt even better," he said.
"Because they were the two things that were missing pretty much the whole year is my driving and my putting, and being able to combine that today, just felt like the old days, which is only last year."
Further back, the hopes of championship favorite Rory McIlroy and grand slam seeker Jordan Spieth are hanging by a thread, 10 and 11 strokes behind respectively.
The second round will resume on Saturday at 7.30 a.m. local time (1130 GMT). American Chris Stroud is best placed among those yet to complete the round, five-under with five holes left.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Jordan Spieth acknowledged after the second round of the PGA Championship that it will take some "crazy stuff" for him to complete the career grand slam on Sunday.
After speaking so positively ahead of the final major of the year, Spieth's challenge never left the launch pad over the first 36 holes at Quail Hollow.
Eleven strokes behind at three-over 145, he will almost certainly have to wait another year to have an opportunity to complete the grand slam of all four modern majors.
His putting let him down in the first round, while on Friday he played too conservatively down the stretch in relatively easy late-afternoon conditions, after rain had taken the sting out of the greens.
"I kind of accept the fact that I'm essentially out of this tournament pending some form of crazy stuff the next couple of days," he said after a one-birdie 73.
"I'm sure going to give it a try."
He was frustrated with himself for playing away from danger over the final stretch of holes where water comes into play.
"I'm a little upset at the bailing out I did on a couple of shots. Just no reason to bail out on those at this point in the position I was in."
Asked if he had a score in mind over the weekend, he said "54 would be nice" before adding more seriously that he would just go as low as he could.
Pre-tournament favorite Rory McIlroy is also all but out of contention, 10 strokes behind after being on the harder side of the draw, late on Thursday and early Friday, before the rain.
"I feel like I'm still right there in the tournament," he said, speaking before Hideki Matsuyama had carded 64 to join Kevin Kisner in the lead at eight-under.
McIlroy is a two-time winner at Quail Hollow.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - For Jason Day, the scene at the 18th was a flashback to his youth, and the boyish hug he gave Dustin Johnson as they hurried down the fairway was pure joy over sneaking in a last hole as darkness fell.
Day, Johnson and playing partner Henrik Stenson hurried through just after the horn sounded to suspend play for the day due to failing light in the weather-interrupted second round.
Johnson hustled into position at the 18th tee to hit a tee shot for the group, which allowed them to complete the hole and avoid having to return early on Saturday to finish.
Day threw his arm around the neck of world number one Johnson and laughed in glee as they rushed down the fairway.
"On 17 I was off the green. And we were walking up, and we were talking about like if we can get a tee shot on 18 we could finish the round. And DJ is like, 'I'll do it.'
"As soon as he teed off we all kind of flushed it down 18," said Day, who ran down the fairway to save time. "And I just walked up to him and said, 'That's the biggest, or most clutch thing I've ever seen anyone do for me'.
"I had to give him a hug for it. He was happy, as well. Obviously to be able to finish and not have to wake up at 5:30 (A.M.) tomorrow, get some rest."
Added Day: "I do remember finishing in the dark a lot when I was a kid, not thinking that I was going to be running down the 18th hole at a major championship."
At the ninth hole, Rod Pampling took a similar course of action but with a different result. The Australian raced to the tee and took a wild swipe at the ball, slashing it left into trees in order to beat the horn.
Pampling was not that upset, however, as he had no chance of making the cut. He finished on 14-over-par, the same score as playing partner Thomas Pieters, while Xander Schauffele, the other member of the group, was one shot better on 13-over.
All three players finished with a double bogey on the hole.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Kevin Kisner transformed his game three years ago to turn himself from a battler into one of the world’s best golfers.
He has risen to 25th in the world rankings without much fanfare, but his relative anonymity will change if he continues his sizzling form at the PGA Championship, where he was tied with Hideki Matsuyama for the halfway lead at eight-under 134 on Friday.
Kisner realized in his first two years on tour that he was not good enough to compete with the world’s best, so he went back to the drawing board with coach John Tillery and focused on improving his long game.
“I was never a great ball striker. I came out here and saw how well other guys hit it and I was like, ‘I’ve got no chance the way I’m hitting it',” said the 33-year-old from nearby South Carolina after his second successive 67 at Quail Hollow.
“I knew if I ever got confident in my ball-striking I could win, because I’m competitive and pretty good around the greens. Once I started seeing results with the long game, then I had a great year in (2015).”
Kisner now has two PGA Tour victories under his belt, and four other playoff losses, but he entered the PGA Championship without a great record in his 11 previous major starts.
“I’ve been upset with how I’ve played in the majors so far... but every year you learn more about how to approach them... They are not much fun unless everything is working out for you.”
Kisner fits the stereotypical image of what the Americans call a 'good 'ol southern boy', enjoying hunting and fishing with his buddies when he's back home -- and not talking about golf.
“I love my core group of friends at home that they don’t ask me why I made a bogey on the last hole that cost me 20 grand or anything like that. They don’t pester me about golf and we just hang out and have a couple of beers on the back porch.”
Kisner, whose brother-in-law is a founding member of Quail Hollow, still lives in the unglamorous town where he was born, Aiken, South Carolina, just across the border from Augusta, Georgia.
“When I was playing mini-tours and was broke, that’s the only place I could afford to buy a house and I went back there,” he said, adding he had no plans to move. “I love it.”
As he sleeps on Friday night pondering his share of the lead, Kisner knows the job is far from done.
“The next step is competing and winning major championships. I think a big step is just understanding that no lead is safe.”
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - A disappointed Anirban Lahiri has given up hope of winning the PGA Championship but is eyeing an under-par finish, he said after falling 11 strokes behind second-round leaders Hideki Matsuyama and Rory McIlroy on Friday.
Lahiri played a bogey-free back nine crowned by a birdie at the last to overcome a loose first nine and post a two-over 73, qualifying for weekend play at Quail Hollow.
The 30-year-old Indian, who tied for second at the Memorial tournament in June, expected more of himself.
"I’m actually quite disappointed with where I am, honestly, but that’s the way it is right now," Lahiri told Reuters after signing for a three-over 145 halfway total.
"I think I’ve been playing pretty good. It’s just these last two days I haven’t scored very well. I missed a lot of putts, had a bunch of three-putts. I think around the green has been poor, but I think tee to green I have been pretty solid.
"I will try to improve on the weekend and try to get a couple of scores under par."
Lahiri said the firmness and speed of the new greens at Quail Hollow has been perplexing.
"It’s a very demanding golf course. You have to be good off the tee and I’ve done that. So I’ve done the hard part, right?
"But it’s also demanding on and around the greens. And I think that is the department where I’ve struggled this week so far," he said.
Lahiri said the roll-outs down grain on the contoured greens can be severe. "That's just how it is. That's rub of the green for you," he said.
Lahiri, who finished fifth at the 2015 PGA Championship, had a specific goal in mind.
"I just want to see if I can get a couple of rounds in the 60s," he said. "I think I’m playing well enough to shoot a couple of good scores under par. I want to finish the tournament in red figures."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Co-leader Hideki Matsuyama has an “extra gear” in common with many of the greats, Ernie Els said on Friday after playing the second round of the PGA Championship with the Japanese player.
Els has been grouped with Matsuyama many times, but was still surprised when he watched his fellow competitor blow a drive over a fairway bunker guarding the left side of the slight dogleg at the 10th hole.
“What I saw today that I haven’t seen from Hideki is that little extra he has,” the South African veteran told a small group of reporters after Matsuyama had carded seven-under 64 to tie American Kevin Kisner for the second-round lead at Quail Hollow.
“I remember in my prime and a lot of other guys' primes when you needed it there was that 20 yards and he’s got that ability,” continued former world number one Els.
“Today on number 10 there’s a bunker at 310 (yards). He flew that bunker comfortably. When you have that kind of firepower, he’s got an extra gear. He plays within himself and then can let it go. The whole package is there.”
Els thinks world number three Matsuyama has “really paid his dues” by playing well in previous majors and hopes the Japanese player on Sunday becomes the first man from his country to win a major.
“There’s not really any flaws in (the swing and) he’s not scared of the lead,” Els said.
“Some guys shy away from the lead because they’re not sure of their games. I think he’s totally sure of his game. That 61 on Sunday (to win the Bridgestone Invitational) must have given the world of confidence.
“I would really like it if he wins because he’s really paid his dues now.”
LONDON (Reuters) - It will be the end of an era for athletics on Saturday when Usain Bolt races for the last time in the men's 4x100 meters relay at the World Championships.
The Jamaican is hoping to step away from the track having won his 20th global championship title, something he was denied last week when he finished third in the 100m behind American Justin Gatlin.
Fans flocking to the London Stadium on Saturday will probably be treated to a double dose of the 30-year-old sprint legend as Bolt plans to take part in the relay heats in the day's first session.
There will be a fair amount of emotion from the stands as Mo Farah also runs in his last track race - the 5,000 meters final.
The Briton is aiming to complete an unprecedented World Championship triple-double, having retained his 10,000m title on the first day - the home nation's only medal.
The penultimate day of the championships also has former 100 meters hurdles champion Sally Pearson of Australia going up against world record holder Kendra Harrison of the U.S. for the title.
The decathlon reaches its climax with the traditional 1,500m to close the multi-discipline event.
There are also gold medals to be won in the women's high jump and the men's javelin.
(Reuters) - Mixed martial arts fighter Conor McGregor says he has become "the face of the fight game" ahead of his upcoming multi-million dollar boxing match against Floyd Mayweather in Las Vegas this month.
The 29-year-old Irishman, who has never boxed professionally, told reporters at the UFC Performance Institute in Las Vegas on Friday that his sole concern was getting the win, and that the cash was a secondary issue.
UFC lightweight champion McGregor is due to face the 40-year old Mayweather, who retied in 2015 with an unblemished 49-0, on Aug. 26 in a 12-round super welterweight boxing bout.
"I am the face of the fight game, period. And I'll rule over both (boxing and MMA) with an iron fist -- an iron left fist," he told reporters.
The fight against "Money" Mayweather will shoot the brash Irishman into the financial stratosphere, but McGregor said he was not worried about the cash.
"The word (money) isn't even in my vocabulary. I'm preparing to win, and to win in devastating fashion," he said. "I don't care about money. As long as I make my correct decisions and don't make stupid decisions, I'm set for life."
Wearing a robe made for him by fashion designer Donatella Versace, emblazoned with his name and "Notorious" nickname in gold on the back, McGregor said he felt in "pristine condition" as he had his hands wrapped for the workout.
"This is a fight that has been in my crosshairs since Floyd's been opening his mouth, simple as that," McGregor said of his decision to chase a match-up against one of the greatest boxers of all time.
Both fighters have said that the contest at the T-Mobile Arena will not go the full 12 rounds. Mayweather told the media at his workout on Thursday that the fight going the distance would represent a victory for his 29-year-old opponent.
"You know what I heard him say yesterday? Nothing," McGregor scoffed when asked about the statement.
"I saw a man scared, that's what I saw, I saw a lackluster workout, I saw a man trying to talk himself out of it. That's what I saw."
McGregor warmed up and then pulled on his boxing gloves, working up a sweat on a selection of punch bags for 12 three-minute rounds.
After a flurry of punches on the final bag, McGregor still had one more parting shot for boxing fans who he says are bored with how their sport.
"I just want to say to all of boxing -- it's OK to love me as much as I love me. It's OK. Let it go," a beaming McGregor said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Olympic champion Caster Semenya looked ominously comfortable in advancing to the women's 800 meters final at the World Athletics Championships on Friday but a host of challengers also looked impressive and should push the South African all the way.
Semenya, who won bronze in the 1,500 on Monday, as usual looked as if she was out for a weekend jog while all around her were straining every sinew as she won the second of three heats in one minute 58.90 seconds.
"It would have been a waste of time staying at home, doing nothing so I thought I'd come here to entertain you people," Semenya said of her decision to run the 1,500 as well.
Burundi's Francine Niyonsaba and powerful Kenyan Margaret Wambui, silver and bronze medalists in last year's Olympics, went one-two again in the third heat to progress automatically.
Ajee Wilson, who set a U.S. record of 1:55.61 last month and has been in hot form, looked superb in winning the first heat in 1:59.21 from Melissa Bishop, the 2015 silver medalist from Canada who looked more like her normal self after laboring through the first round.
The United States have won only one medal in the event - Brenda Martinez's bronze in 2013 - but 23-year-old Wilson is certainly in the mix for another and will be joined in the final by compatriot Charlene Lipsey.
Poland's Angelika Cichocka produced a remarkable finish, cutting in from the outside of lane two to the inside of lane one to sneak second place in heat two and an automatic slot.
The final will be without defending champion Marina Arzamasova of Belarus, who was eliminated in the heats, and former champion Eunice Sum of Kenya, who withdrew due to illness.
(The Sports Xchange) - Dallas Cowboys star running back Ezekiel Elliott was suspended six games by the NFL on Friday for violating the league's personal conduct policy after multiple domestic violence incidents.
Elliott has three days to appeal the suspension and is expected to do so, ESPN reports. The six-game ban is the penalty for first-time offenders of the league's new domestic violent policy.
The suspension is scheduled to begin Sept. 2 and Elliott is eligible to return to the Cowboys' roster on Oct. 23, one day after the team's Week 7 road game against the San Francisco 49ers.
As a result of the suspension, the guarantees in the four-year, $24.956 million deal Elliott signed with Dallas in 2016 will be voided, per ESPN. Elliott will forfeit $559,192 in 2017 salary according to salary cap website Spotrac.
In addition, Elliott will give up $240,000 per missed game in signing-bonus money if the suspension is upheld.
Elliott, 22, is accused by his former girlfriend of five domestic assault incidents in July 2016 in Columbus, Ohio and has been under NFL investigation, although the city attorney's office already announced he will not face criminal charges.
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones is reportedly "furious" with the league's decision to suspend Elliott, according to ESPN.
"Over the course of the last year, the league conducted an extensive investigation," a league statement read Friday. "League investigators interviewed more than a dozen witnesses, including Ms. Tiffany Thompson, who had alleged multiple instances of physical violence in July 2016, and Mr. Elliott. The league also consulted with medical experts. League investigators examined all available evidence, including photographic and digital evidence, thousands of text messages and other records of electronic communications.
"... After reviewing the record, and having considered the views of the independent advisors, the (NFL) commissioner (Roger Goodell) determined that the credible evidence established that Elliott engaged in conduct that violated NFL policy."
The NFL Players' Association also issued a statement saying it is reviewing the league's decision and has been "in touch with Ezekiel and his representatives to consider all options."
Jones previously said that the focus of the league's investigation was centered around Elliott's behavior and not the domestic violence allegations.
"I have reviewed everything, and there is absolutely nothing -- not one thing -- that had anything to do with domestic violence," Jones said during the team's training camp.
LONDON (Reuters) - Former Olympic 100 meters hurdles champion Sally Pearson continued her remarkable comeback from injury by qualifying fastest for the World Championship final as defending champion Danielle Williams failed to progress on Friday.
Australian Pearson has endured a frustrating two years, missing the 2015 championships in Beijing and the Olympics last year due to serious injuries.
However, the 30-year-old showed her determination to reclaim the title she first won in 2011 by destroying the field to win the opening heat in 12.53 seconds ahead of American Nia Ali.
"I haven't come here to come second," Pearson told reporters. "I'm just happy to be going through the rounds and feeling good; it's a matter of doing it to my own art."
American Christina Manning won the second heat in 12.71 ahead of Alina Talay of Belarus, who won bronze in 2015.
But there was no place in the final for Jamaican Williams, who came fifth in her semi in 13.14, not even fast enough to go through via one of the non-automatic places.
American Dawn Harper Nelson, who won gold at the 2008 Olympics, recorded a season's best mark of 12.63 to win the last heat and qualify along with Germany’s Pamela Dutkiewicz.
Favorite Harrison clipped seven hurdles on her way to a third-place finish, although her time of 12.86 was just enough to put her into Saturday’s final through the non-automatic spots.
But the 24-year-old, who set her world record time in London last year, was not worried by her performance.
"I made the final so I'm just glad to have got through. I think that first little hiccup threw me off, but I just tried to make it through," Harrison said.
"I'm excited for the final, it's my first one, and I'm ready to come out here and get the job done.
"Unfortunately, I hit the first hurdle and I just had to readjust. I had to tell myself not to panic because I've done the training. I've run the world record in this stadium so I was capable of making up for the error. I didn't hurt myself so I'm fine."
CASABLANCA, Morocco (Reuters) - Morocco has lodged a last-minute bid to host the 2026 soccer World Cup and will compete against a three-way bid from the United States, Mexico and Canada.
The Moroccan soccer federation announced the decision in a statement, the fifth time the North African nation has entered the race to stage the event.
FIFA confirmed those two were the only bids it had received by Friday - the deadline for member associations to officially express an interest in staging the tournament.
Morocco bid unsuccessfully to stage the 1994, 1998, 2006 and 2010 World Cups.
The country was second to the United States in 1994, behind France in 1998 and narrowly lost out to South Africa in its offer to stage the 2010 finals, the only time the tournament has been held in Africa.
"The Royal Moroccan Football Federation has officially submitted its candidacy on Friday, August 11, 2017 to organize the World Cup in 2026,” the statement on the federation's website (www.frmf.ma) said.
"The Federation submitted its application to the relevant committees of the Federation Internationale de Football Association - FIFA - to host this global event."
The 2026 tournament will be the first to be played with 48 teams, making it a huge undertaking for any country.
The Confederation of African Football, which has 54 of FIFA's 211 member national associations, has said it will support the Moroccan bid.
Morocco will be viewed as outsiders to be chosen to host the event. The joint bid by the United States, Canada and Mexico was announced in April.
"We've always been prepared for the fact that other countries could also decide to bid for the 2026 FIFA World Cup," said U.S. soccer federation president Sunil Gulati.
"Competition is good, and overall it shows the value and importance of the World Cup."
Gulati said the North American bid would provide further information next week about which cities were interested in hosting games.
"We'll continue to put together a bid that will meet and exceed the final regulations and specifications required by FIFA," he said.
FIFA said in a statement that the two candidates would have until March to submit detailed bidding documents. The bids will then be evaluated and a report submitted to the FIFA Council.
The final decision will be taken by the full FIFA Congress in Moscow on June 13 next year.
BERLIN (Reuters) - The presidents of world soccer body FIFA and the international athletics federation IAAF have not been proposed for appointment to the International Olympic Committee when the IOC session votes in new members in September.
IAAF chief Seb Coe and FIFA's Gianni Infantino were passed over for a second year running as they battle doping and corruption scandals in their fields. Previous FIFA and IAAF presidents had seats at the IOC table for decades.
The IOC's nine proposed new members, named on Friday, include Luis Mejia Oviedo, head of the Dominican Republic's Olympic committee, Khunying Patama Leeswadtrakul, Thai entrepreneur and head of her country's badminton federation, Ingmar De Vos, International Equestrian Federation chief, and Jean-Christophe Rolland, world rowing president.
The IOC gave no reason for the exclusion of Coe and Infantino, who represent two of the biggest federations of the Games.
The IOC also said Samsung Chairman Lee Kun-hee would not be up for membership re-election at September's session in Peru at his family's request due to illness.
The South Korean had been an IOC member since 1996 and played a key role in helping Pyeongchang win the 2018 winter Olympics. He was suspended for two years after being embroiled in a company scandal and was reinstated as IOC member in 2010.
Infantino was elected head of FIFA in 2016 to succeed scandal-plagued Sepp Blatter and lead the federation out of its biggest graft crisis.
Former double Olympic champion Coe took over the IAAF in 2015 as a doping scandal unfolded, severely damaging the credibility of the organization.
Coe triggered the ire of the IOC when the IAAF blocked Russian track and field athletes from competing at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics last year over the doping affair.
Coe's predecessor Lamine Diack faces a bribery and embezzlement investigation in France.
Both Blatter and Diack were IOC members until 2015. Blatter's predecessor at FIFA, Joao Havelange, was an IOC member from 1963 to 2011.
Diack's predecessor, Primo Nebiolo, was also an IOC member.
LONDON (Reuters) - He had demanded that the world write one last headline about him -- "Unbeatable. Unstoppable." -- and at the World Athletics Championships on Saturday, Usain St Leo Bolt can still have his final sporting wish granted.
Those quicksilver feet which always dealt in gold have another chance to obey his command as he seeks to bring down the curtain on his matchless sprint career and land a 20th global championship title in the 4 x 100 metres relay.
There may never have been an anti-climax in sport quite as deflating as Saturday's 100 metres final when Bolt, in his last solo race, proved both beatable and stoppable, defeated by the two-time doping offender Justin Gatlin.
It seemed the greatest entertainer that athletics -- and maybe even the whole panoply of sport -- has known had run out of magic, betrayed by a creaking start from the blocks.
Even as he posed for all the selfies afterwards, demonstrating a grace and sportsmanship that proved him just as big a winner in rare defeat, it still felt wrong, a desperately downbeat way to depart for a sportsman who has brought so much joy to all.
So, to the good news. Delightfully, there are now two last spins for the road. There was supposed to be only one, the 4 x 100 metres relay final on Saturday night, but Bolt has offered us an extra treat by opting to run the heats too earlier that morning.
Saturday night will, he promises us, be the last time we ever see him flowing down a track, with that unique ground-devouring stride that used to make other fine sprinters appear like shrimps wallowing in treacle.
No worries about having to haul himself stiffly out of the blocks here; he'll take the baton on the anchor leg and fly. He always did look his most imperious with a rolling start and he still holds the fastest 100m relay leg time, an unreal 8.65 seconds.
But then all the records are his. He departs with landmarks that feel for the moment untouchable, especially that 100 metres milestone of 9.58 seconds -- nobody has come within a tenth of a second of that one -- and the 200m mark of 19.19.
Since he first ran the blue riband shorter event in 2007, he has run 54 100m races, excluding heats, and won all but six. Of his 200 metres races since his breakthrough 2008 season, he's lost, astonishingly, just one of 30.
The statistics tell of a longevity of domination that the fickle world of sprinting had never seen before. Yet no athlete could be defined less by cold, emotionless figures.
With Bolt, the pleasure, the gasps of incredulous laughter, always came with just watching him make the impossible look workaday.
When he leaves us, perhaps with one fitting final gold and one last daft 'Lightning Bolt' pose, it will feel like a light illuminating world sport has just been switched off.
Then where will athletics be? It is hard to imagine a sport that needed a figurehead more than it needed Bolt. Mired in doping scandals, strangled by disinterest and treated with increasing public cynicism, Bolt was its joyous bolthole.
His farewell championships have given a glimpse of athletics life without him.
We had a 100m winner Gatlin booed to the rafters and a 200m victor Ramil Guliyev, whose winning time was nearly a second slower than Bolt's best and who ended up being interrogated in the victory press conference about his adopted country Turkey's doping record.
Then, Bolt's supposed successor as the sport's main attraction, Wayde van Niekerk, wept over suggestions of IAAF 'sabotage' from a rival Isaac Makwala who was not allowed to run the 400 metres because of a virus he claimed he didn't have.
It was never like that when Bolt was doing his thing. Bolt brought a pure, clear simplicity to the sport, rich in entertainment, delivered with a smile -- and on a diet of chicken nuggets.
The world did not just love Bolt, smiling with him as he made winning look preposterously easy; athletics trusted Bolt in an era when the sport was engulfed by disenchantment.
When Sebastian Coe, the IAAF President, watched his farewell to Jamaican athletics in Kingston this year, he told Reuters: "He's connected with young people, with people that didn't even think they liked track and field, he's turned them into lifelong fans.
"I'm not just saying that as the president of the world sport, I'm saying this as a fan."
Because Bolt made us all his fans. He was athletics' Muhammad Ali and Pele rolled into one.
If anyone else had declared, as he did after his 200m triumph at London 2012, "I am a living legend. Bask in my glory!", he would have appeared an appalling braggart. Not Bolt; he just made it seem like a bit of fun.
And that was, ultimately, his crowning glory. Not just that he was the fastest man in the world but that he so obviously loved every hundredth of a second of us enjoying him. Let's bask in his glory one last time.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - The silver medals Russian sprinter Tatyana Firova won at the Beijing and London Olympics are stored in a safe in her apartment near Moscow in defiance of the International Olympic Committee, which has wanted them back for months.
Firova is one of six athletes who told Reuters they had yet to return Olympic medals and diplomas from the Beijing and London Games that were revoked over the last year after their samples, or those of relay teammates, tested positive for banned substances.
Two of these athletes said they had no intention of returning them, while three others said they would do so but were unclear how to proceed, had logistical constraints or were awaiting the outcome of an appeal. Another athlete was undecided.
"I don't want to return my medals because I think no one would have deserved them more," said Firova, who was stripped of her Beijing silver medal in the 4x400-metre relay after banned substances, including the anabolic steroid turinabol, were found in her samples.
Russia's athletics federation told Reuters that three stripped Olympic medals and one diploma had been returned, and that several appeals were still being heard. In February, it said 23 medals needed to be handed back.
The federation is already suspended over a 2015 World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report that exposed systematic state-sponsored doping in Russian athletics. It remains unclear if not returning medals could lead to additional disciplinary measures or stop Russian athletes going to the Olympics.
It is also unclear whether the International Olympic Committee can compel athletes to return medals.
"They are not a police force," Olympic historian Bill Mallon said of the IOC.
"I think all they'll end up doing is reissuing the medals to the other people and saying, 'well, that person has a medal they don't deserve'."
The fact many medals have not been returned points to a broader issue with the culture of Russian sport.
While Russia has pledged to cooperate with global sports bodies over its anti-doping program, it has never acknowledged state support for doping. Many in Russian sport, from officials to athletes and coaches, do not believe there was wrongdoing, and say their country is being unfairly targeted.
In a report last week, an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) task force monitoring reforms at the Russian federation said it had yet to demonstrate "that it has established a strong anti-doping culture within its sport, or that it has created an open environment that encourages whistleblowing".
The IOC did not respond to Reuters questions about what it could do if athletes refuse to return medals, saying it had already received a number of medals and was in contact with the relevant Olympic committees about the issue.
The Russian Olympic Committee, responsible for returning the medals to the IOC, did not reply to a request for comment.
The IAAF said Russia's athletics federation had yet to meet several reinstatement criteria, while WADA said Russian national anti-doping agency RUSADA still had to meet 12 conditions to regain accreditation.
The Russian athletics federation has warned athletes that their failure to return stripped medals could hinder its efforts to be reinstated in the IAAF, which has cleared dozens of Russians to compete internationally as neutral athletes.
A federation official attributed the resistance to the fact that many of these athletes no longer compete, meaning they cannot be punished by measures such as exclusion from the national team.
Firova, who also has to surrender her 4x400-metre relay silver medal from London after a teammate's samples were retested, said she was sentimentally attached to her Olympic hardware.
"It's the objective proof of my labor," she said.
In Firova's case for the Beijing Games, the IOC ruled that she "has the medal, the medalist pin and the diplomas obtained in the Women's 400m and the Women's 4x400m relay withdrawn, and is ordered to return these".
Firova said she has appealed the decision but the outcome of her case would have little impact on her actions.
"From the very start of all this, I made the decision not to give it back," she said of her Beijing silver, although she might be willing to return the medalist pin and diplomas.
Since Beijing and London, some Olympic medals and diplomas could have been sold, misplaced or lost, complicating Russia's efforts to have them returned.
"I don't know whether I've lost it or not, but I haven't seen it in a while," former decathlete Alexander Pogorelov, who was stripped of his Olympic diploma for a fourth-place finish in Beijing after turinabol was found in his samples, told Reuters.
"But even if I did find it, I probably wouldn't give it back because I think I earned it honestly," said Pogorelov, who now heads the sports committee of the city of Bryansk.
Some athletes said the Russian federation had not asked for the return of medals and diplomas, which its president denied.
"They are lying about the fact they weren't notified," athletics federation president Dmitry Shlyakhtin told Reuters, insisting it had contacted them by phone, e-mail and mail.
Sports minister Pavel Kolobkov downplayed the issue of medals not being promptly returned.
"Many athletes don't give back their medals, not only athletes in Russia," he told Reuters last month.
Organisers of other sports events have also faced obstacles in reclaiming medals or prize money from Russian dopers.
The London Marathon has been trying to reclaim money from Russia's Liliya Shobukhova, who won the 2010 title and was runner-up in 2011 before being banned for doping.
Shobukhova was sued in Britain and the marathon's organizers are now waiting for a hearing in Russia to have the judgement applied there.
"We will spend whatever money it takes to pursue her and get the money back, even if it makes no commercial sense," the race's chief executive Nick Bitel told Reuters this week.
Shobukhova declined to comment.
Veteran U.S. Olympic high jumper Chaunté Lowe is in line to receive bronze from Beijing, her first Olympic medal, after Russia's Anna Chicherova was stripped of it and the fourth and fifth place finishers were disqualified for doping.
But Chicherova has appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, saying she would only return her medal if her "guilt will be proven irrevocably".
"Obviously it would have been a great feeling to be able to go to the Olympics and experience having a ceremony," Lowe told Reuters. "A medal doesn't replace a ceremony."
PARIS (Reuters) - World-record signing Neymar looks set to make his debut for Paris St Germain on Sunday after the French football federation confirmed it had received the player's transfer certificate.
The Brazilian, whose 222 million euros ($262 mln) signing from Barcelona doubled the world-record transfer fee, was prevented from playing in PSG's first Ligue 1 match of the season against Amiens last week because his registration had gone through too late.
PSG travel to En Avant Guingamp on Sunday.
"One thing is clear: we want him to make his debut (on Sunday)," PSG coach Unai Emery told reporters. "He's been good in training. He is ready. We want him to be in the squad and to start. He's a player we need."
"I think he is ready to start the game."
The French football federation (FFF) confirmed that Neymar was now licensed to play in France.
"The FFF confirms it has received the transfer certificate of Neymar Jr, sent by the RFEF (Spanish football federation)," the FFF said on its Twitter feed on Friday.
PSG opened the season by beating Amiens 2-0 at the Parc des Princes last Saturday. They ended last season as runners-up to Monaco after winning four successive Ligue 1 titles.
LONDON (Reuters) - Kendra Harrison returned to the London track where she broke the world record last year to breeze impressively into the semi-finals of the 100 meters hurdles at the World Athletics Championships on Friday.
The 24-year-old American, unbeaten since failing to qualify for the Olympics, is determined to make amends for missing out last year and looked as if she will take some beating as she won her opening round heat in the fastest time, 12.60 seconds.
Despite clipping the second hurdle, she swept to a comfortable victory in a time that was four-tenths of a second slower than the record of 12.20 she set in the London Stadium last year, soon after failing at the U.S. Olympic trials.
"Winning definitely builds confidence, this round is about getting my legs ready. I'll come back, run fast and get ready for the finals," Harrison said afterwards.
Australian Sally Pearson, another athlete with happy memories of this stadium, also looked sharp in the arena where she won the Olympic title in 2012, winning her heat in the third fastest time, 12.72 seconds.
After leading home another Olympic champion, the 2008 winner American Dawn Harper Nelson, who also qualified for Friday evening's semi-finals in 12.88, Pearson reflected on her resurgent form after being unable to defend her Olympic title in Rio through injury.
"I was really, really nervous today because it's been a long time since I've been on a championship team," Pearson said.
"When you go through those difficult moments, you retire about 100 times over and over. But there's something deep down inside of you knows you've got that bit more to give."
After their clean sweep of the medals at the Olympics, even without Harrison, the U.S. hurdlers feel they could emulate that achievement with Harper Nelson, Olympic silver medalist Nia Ali and heat winner Christina Manning also qualifying easily.
Yet Pearson and Jamaica's reigning champion Danielle Williams, who won her heat as second fastest qualifier in 12.66, will have a say about that prospect.
Trinidad and Tobago hurdler Deborah John had to be carried away on a stretcher after receiving medical attention on the track for 10 minutes following a bad fall at the fifth hurdle in the final heat.
Medical officials later reported that she was fine after treatment.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German state broadcasters ARD and ZDF have struck a deal with Discovery Communications for the right to show the Olympic Games from 2018 to 2024, after months of tough talks.
ARD did not say on Friday how much the broadcasters were paying to sub-license the rights, but said the deal "takes into account the financial abilities of the public broadcasters".
U.S.-based Discovery won the European broadcast rights for the Olympics from 2018 to 2024 for 1.3 billion euros ($1.5 billion) in 2015, beating national public broadcasters such as the BBC and France Television.
It had been expected to pass on some lucrative rights, but last November ARD and ZDF said they would not show the Olympic Games for the first time, having failed to clinch a deal.
Media reports have said the two sides disagreed on the price of the sub-licence, with ARD and ZDF wanting to pay no more than 100 million euros ($118 million) for the broadcast rights in Germany and Discovery demanding at least 150 million euros.
They said last month that talks had resumed.
ARD said on Friday the broadcasters would not be able to show all events at the Pyeongchang Winter Games live due to the short lead time, saying they would offer only highlights of figure skating, short track speed skating and snowboarding.
(Reuters) - A high-school football player on New York's Long Island was killed on Thursday when he was struck in the head by a log his teammates were carrying on the field during a conditioning drill, police said.
Joshua Mileto, 16, suffered the fatal injury at Sachem East High School in Farmingville, a community 50 miles (80 km) east of Manhattan, and was rushed to a hospital where he was pronounced dead, Suffolk County Police said in a statement.
Police detectives were investigating the death, which occurred during an off-season football workout.
Witnesses reported several football players were running onto the field while holding a large log, which resembled a telephone pole, over their heads, according to New York television station WCBS-TV. Two of the players fell, and the log struck Mileto in the head. It was not clear whether Mileto or the other players were wearing football helmets at the time.
"The district is devastated by this horrific accident, and words cannot express the grief we feel as a school community," Sachem Central School District Superintendent Kenneth Graham said in a statement.
All activities at the district's campuses were canceled following the death, he added.
(The Sports Xchange) - The highly anticipated debuts of Chris Paul with the Houston Rockets and Gordon Hayward with the Boston Celtics will highlight the opening night of the NBA season, the league announced Thursday.
Paul and the Rockets will visit the Golden State Warriors on Tuesday Oct. 17 as the second part of a doubleheader on TNT. Paul, a nine-time All-Star point guard, spent the past six seasons with the Los Angeles Clippers, while the Warriors will be receiving NBA championship rings for the second time in the past three seasons.
In the opener, Hayward and the Celtics will visit the Cleveland Cavaliers in a rematch of last season's Eastern Conference finals. Hayward joined Boston as a free agent during the summer after seven seasons with the Utah Jazz, including making his first All-Star appearance last season.
Cleveland once again will have LeBron James on the floor but the status of guard Kyrie Irving remains unclear after he asked to be traded.
The NBA also announced its five Christmas Day matchups with an NBA Finals rematch between the Cavaliers and host Warriors on ABC (3 p.m. ET) representing the marquee contest. The two teams have met in each of the past three finals.
MVP Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder and MVP runner-up James Harden of the Rockets will square off on ABC (8 p.m. ET) on the Thunder's homecourt. The other contest on ABC will feature the Washington Wizards visiting the Celtics at 5:30 p.m. ET.
The Philadelphia 76ers and New York Knicks begin Christmas Day with a noon ET tip at Madison Square Garden on ESPN. The contest is Philadelphia's first Christmas Day affair since 2001.
Squaring off on Christmas Night (10:30 p.m. ET) will be the Minnesota Timberwolves and host Los Angeles Lakers.
LONDON (Reuters) - Double Olympic champion Christian Taylor continued his dominance of the triple jump when he won his third world title on Thursday, once again beating fellow American Will Claye into second place.
Taylor leapt 17.68 meters with his third attempt to win by five centimeters, clinching the title when Claye was given a red flag on his last attempt. Portugal's Nelson Evora, Olympic champion in 2008, took bronze with 17.19.
The 27-year-old Taylor became the first triple jumper to win three world crowns, having also claimed victory in Daegu in 2011 and Beijing two years ago. He also took gold at the 2012 and 2016 Olympics with Claye finishing second on both occasions.
But he had made it clear beforehand that his ambition was to break Jonathan Edwards's long-standing record of 18.29 meters, set in 1995.
"I have this watch from my sponsor with 18.30 on it," Taylor said. "I will try to fight, I will get this number. The record is still on. I am still motivated to break that record.
"My motivation is to be the best athlete. This was not the night, I am a little disappointed. But the season is not yet over."
Edwards said beforehand that he thought his world mark could be under threat. In the event, the contest turned into something of an anti-climax with both producing their best jumps in the third round.
Claye led after the first round with 17.54 before Taylor took the initiative in the second with a jump of 17.57.
Claye briefly regained the lead with 17.63 in the next round but Taylor immediately took it back with the decisive jump.
"Will makes it tough every time," he said. "If you do not have a rivalry - like I have with Will Claye - then the sport is boring.
"One month ago we did a competition in the mountains, we are trying everything to do this number, even in the mountains."
Claye felt he should have performed better on the night.
"You can never complain about the silver medal," he said. "But I felt like I should have executed better today.
"With Christian, we both were in a good shape, he is not unbeatable. He just executed better and I was missing five centimeters."
LONDON (Reuters) - Four Kenyans with eyes on 1,500 meters medals – the three fastest men in the world this year and the one seeking a fourth successive title – all qualified from Thursday’s first-round heats, though not without a scare for one of them.
Triple defending champion Abel Kiprop, aiming to match the four successive titles world record-holder Hicham El Guerrouj took from 1997-2003, showed that he is not about to hand over his title without a fight.
Kiprop went all the way to the line just behind Elijah Manangoi, silver medalist two years ago and the world leader this year with three minutes 28.80, in a mass finish to the first heat.
The two 21-year-old pretenders of the Kenyan team had contrasting nights as Timothy Cheruiyot went through strongly in second place in the third heat while Ronald Kwemoi snatched the sixth and last fast-loser slot.
Sadik Mikhou, who switched allegiance from Morocco to Bahrain last year, was an impressive winner of the second heat, where Dutchman Richard Douma fell 30 meters from the line when well-placed to qualify.
After an appeal by the Dutch federation Douma was advanced to the semi-finals.
Luke Mathews of Australia led the last heat home and it was considerably the fastest of the three with the six automatic and five of the six fast losers all going through from it.
The home fans, getting ever-more desperate for someone to join 10,000m champion Mo Farah on the medal table, had something to cheer as Chris O'Hare and Jake Wightman - whose father Geoff commentated on the race as the stadium announcer - progressed.
American Matt Centrowitz, the Olympic champion and former world silver and bronze medalist who has struggled for form after an injury and illness-hit season, finished a distant last in his heat.
The semi-finals take place on Friday with the final on Sunday, the last day of the championships.
LONDON (Reuters) - American Kori Carter pulled off another of the growing number of shocks at the World Championships on Thursday, achieving the rare feat of winning the 400 meters hurdles title from the outside lane.
All eyes had been on Carter's U.S. team mate, Olympic champion Dalilah Muhammad, who had been the strong favorite, but it was the former American champion in lane nine who maintained her form best to race to victory in 53.07 seconds.
Muhammad, the fastest woman in the world this year, earned the silver in 53.50 to complete an American one-two while Jamaican Ristananna Tracey, an Olympic finalist last year, took the bronze in a lifetime best 53.74.
Czech Zuzana Hejnova, who had been seeking to achieve an unprecedented third successive one-lap hurdles victory, had to settle for fourth, being overhauled by Tracey on the run-in despite clocking a season's best 54.20.
"I am on top of the world right now. What a blessing to be world champion. This is just an incredible feeling like I've never experienced," the 25-year-old Carter told the crowd.
"When you work so hard and sacrifice so much for something, for it to pay off in the end is so satisfying. It's a surreal experience right now.
"It's always great to run against great athletes because it brings the best out in you, going up against Team USA at trials really prepared me for this."
Few, though, could have expected the Los Angeles-based Carter, who had won the U.S. title three years ago, to prevail from the outside lane where the race becomes a test of blind faith.
Wayde van Niekerk, famously, achieved his Olympic 400 meters win last year from that position, breaking the world record in the process, but that was a wholly unprecedented feat.
Muhammad, who ran 52.64 seconds this year when she beat Carter into third place in a high-quality U.S. trials race, had led through seven hurdles in lane four.
But Carter, who started her athletic career as a soccer player before falling in love with the hurdles, dug deep over the last 30 meters and pulled away from Muhammad.
Hejnova was also quickly running out of steam and twice Jamaican champion Tracey took advantage.
"I feel sorry for my performance tonight," Hejnova  said. "I am disappointed. I kicked it too much at the start and I was missing the energy in the last meters. I think I just let myself be blown away by this amazing atmosphere at the stadium."
Muhammad talked of having suffered a "shaky" season even though she had been imperious in Sacramento at the U.S. Championships.
"I really wanted to win, of course, but I've had so many ups and downs this season. To come out with a silver, I'm proud of that," the 27-year-old said.
"I'm just happy to even get on the podium - it's been a shaky year. I am very proud of Team USA, we come out and show out."
LONDON (Reuters) - Shaunae Miller-Uibo put her 400 meters disappointment behind her to power into the 200m final at the World Championships on Thursday, saying she had simply lost her balance in the showpiece race the day before.
The Bahamian came from behind in the last 60 meters to win the second heat in a time of 22.49 seconds and qualify second fastest behind Dafne Shippers of the Netherlands for Friday’s final.
She then explained what had happened 24 hours earlier when she stumbled 15 meters from the line with a comfortable lead in the 400m final and dropped to fifth.
"I know a lot of people thought I’d hurt my hamstring,” she said.
“It was kinda weird. I had the race under control, I looked up at the screen and misplaced my foot and just completely lost my balance.
"It’s good to get back on the track and wash it away and focus on the 200."
Schippers remained on course to become the first Dutch athlete to win successive world titles as the defending champion won the opening heat, ahead of American Deajah Stevens.
Kimberlyn Duncan joined fellow American Stevens in the final while 100m silver medalist Marie-Josee Ta Lou of the Ivory Coast won the last heat ahead of Britain’s Dina Asher-Smith.
Asher-Smith ran the same time as she did in the first round, 22.73, which was officially a season best, but she has hardly run this year after suffering a broken foot in February.
The 21-year-old only returned to competition last month.
"I completely broke my foot, had to have surgery to put two screws in and then spent six weeks putting no weight on it," Asher-Smith said.
"For three months I was completely unable to walk, then I learnt to walk, run, jog under water, and here we are. I wouldn't recommend it, it's no fun.
"Running a quicker time than I did here would be good in the final. That time for me isn't particularly great, but in the context it is. I'd love to get in the mix a bit."
Canada’s Crystal Emmanuel and Tynia Gaither of the Bahamas qualified via the fastest non-automatic places.
Tori Bowie of the U.S. pulled out of the event after suffering cuts and bruises in winning the 100m final.
(Reuters) - Paul Casey used brain over brawn while Tommy Fleetwood felt buoyed by "beating" the brutal Quail Hollow layout to lead the English contingent early in Thursday's opening round of the PGA Championship.
Casey carded a two-under-par 69, while Fleetwood registered a one-under 70 to plant themselves in the chase for the last major of the year.
"It was not my best stuff today," Casey told reporters. "I struggled with the ball striking. The first hole was an example of that, hooking it into the trees. It was a struggle.
"But I had a good attitude. I tried my hardest to manage the strategy, keep the ball below the hole because I didn’t quite have the control. That’s why you see the two-under. It was a very good score, considering.
"I think it highlights my confidence in good golf craft, good management. Understanding of my own game and understanding of what I need to do."
Fleetwood, whose previous opening round in a major was a six-over 76 at the British Open at Royal Birkdale - where he used to sneak in as a boy to play - took a far more positive first step at long Quail Hollow with its firm, fast greens.
"The course is brutal, really. It's a really tough test," the 26-year-old said. "Anything par or beating the course is a great score. I'm just really happy to be off the course at one-under.
"It was great to beat the golf course today. If you can do that every day I can't see (myself) being that far away."
Fleetwood went to Royal Birkdale as the local favorite after a win in the French Open. He was given an unforgettable reception but suffered through a frustrating opening round before battling back to finish tied for 27th at one-over.
"I didn’t really feel pressure at Birkdale. I just thought it was a new experience being talked about as potentially winning a major, one of the favorites for one of the biggest tournaments in the world," he said. "I had a massive following which is great.
"No matter how I did, (it) was an amazing experience."
Casey has been in good form, entering the PGA Championship off the back of ties for fifth at the WGC-Bridgestone, 11th at the British Open and fifth at the Travelers Championship.
But Casey, who has not won a title since the European Tour's KLM Open in 2014, wants more than that.
"Consistent is great, but winning is what I’m trying to do," he said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Germany's Johannes Vetter and Thomas Rohler will take their burgeoning javelin rivalry into a potentially riveting final at the World Athletics Championships after achieving the automatic qualifying mark on Thursday.
Yet the pair, who have this season both produced throws that have only ever been bettered by the great Czech Jan Zelezny, surpassed the 83 meters qualifying standard in contrasting style.
Vetter, who moved to second on the all-time list last month with a 94.44 meters effort in Lucerne, produced another fine throw of 91.20 meters at the first attempt to power into Saturday's final as the top qualifier.
Olympic champion Rohler, in the second group, had to work harder, failing to make it with his first throw (80.88m) before his second effort cleared the 83m mark by 87 centimeters to make him the eighth best qualifier.
With Andreas Hoffman also making the final as fifth best qualifier (85.62m), Vetter, whose leading throw was almost five meters longer than the next best effort of Czech Petr Frydrych (86.22m), declared: "I am dreaming of three medals for Germany."
(The Sports Xchange) - Fans get upset when a healthy superstar sits out a game for a day of rest, and the NBA apparently plans to do something about it this season.
In September, the NBA owners are expected to approve rules designed to discourage teams from benching healthy players for regular-season games, USA Today reported Thursday.
The rules will be in effect at the start of the 2017-18 season, and teams will be penalized for not abiding by them.
The specifics of the rules and the consequences remain unknown at this point, however. Enforcing any rules regarding the resting of a healthy player may be difficult to do, starting with the problem of determining whether the player is actually healthy.
Earlier this week, the league office announced scheduling improvements designed to provide more rest for players. Teams will no longer play four games in five nights, and the number of back-to-back games has been reduced. It will require the regular season schedule to start a week earlier.
Commissioner Adam Silver suggested changes might be in store during at April news conference.
"There is an expectation among partners that teams are going to act in appropriate ways, (and) find, as I said, that right balance between resting on one hand and obligations to fans and partners on the other," Silver said in April, according to USA Today.
"There is a recognition from teams that on one hand a certain amount of resting is just inevitable and appropriate to keep the players healthy, but that they shouldn't be resting multiple starters on the same night.

2 Min Read
ANKARA (Reuters) - Two Iranian soccer players have been dropped from the national team as punishment for playing against an Israeli side for their Greek club, a senior Iranian sports ministry official told state TV on Thursday.
Masoud Shojaie and Ehsan Hajsafi played for Panionios against Israel's Maccabi Tel Aviv on August 3. Iran's Football Federation last week strongly condemned their participation.
Iran does not recognize the state of Israel.
"Hajsafi and Shojaie have no place in Iran’s national football team any more ... they crossed Iran's red line," Iran's deputy Sports Minister Mohammad Reza Davarzani said.
"Playing against the representative of a loathsome regime (Israel) ... is unacceptable for our nation.”
The two players played in the home leg of the fixture but refused to play in the away leg in Israel, despite facing “pressure” and “financial fines” from their club, the sports ministry said.
Prominent football players and many ordinary Iranians have backed the two players on social media, saying they had no choice but to play the match.
But Iranian Football Federation officials said they should not have played “even if their contracts with the Greek team would have been terminated".
(Reuters) - Reigning Asian Tour Order of Merit winner Scott Hend will compete at next week's Fiji International at the Natadola Bay Championship Golf Course following the PGA Championship starting on Thursday.
The Australian, who tied for 10th at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational last weekend, will play at Quail Hollow this week before traveling to Fiji for the co-sanctioned event being held from Aug. 17-20.
"It's been a big few weeks for me playing The Open, then the Bridgestone Invitational and the PGA Championship this weekend before the Fiji International next week," Hend said on the tournament website. (www.fijiinternational.com)
"I'm looking forward to playing at the Natadola Bay Championship Golf Course in the relaxed atmosphere Fiji is renowned for.
"It's also my first chance to get back to playing an event on the Asian Tour in a while so hopefully I can get a good result and start climbing their Order of Merit rankings again this year."
Hend, a nine-time champion on the Asia Tour, will be joined by U.S. Masters winners Vijay Singh, Mike Weir and Angel Cabrera in Fiji. The event is also sanctioned by the European and Australian tours.
Australia PGA CEO Gavin Kirkman praised Hend after the 43-year-old scored a seven-under 63 in the third round at Firestone last week.
"Scott's third round... was certainly thrilling to watch. He is an extremely talented player that often gets on hot streaks and posts low rounds," Kirkman said.
"I'm sure the Fijian fans will get a kick out of seeing players such as Scott, Vijay Singh, Angel Cabrera and Mike Weir go head-to-head, up close and personal at the Fiji International."
Hend has also won twice on the European Tour.
TORONTO (Reuters) - Karolina Pliskova began her reign as world number one with a ragged 6-3 6-3 second round win over Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova on a blockbuster Wednesday when eight of the top 10 ranked players were in action at the Rogers Cup.
Pliskova, playing in her first tournament since her shock second round defeat at Wimbledon, struggled with a misfiring first serve and was guilty of some lapses in concentration.
However, the lanky Czech was never seriously threatened as she disposed her 19th ranked Russian opponent in a tidy 70 minutes.
"I had a little bit (of nerves) before the match but during the match I felt much better especially at the end," Pliskova said in a courtside interview.
"I think it was not the best tennis from my side but I was trying to improve in the match.
"I'm definitely happy I am through to the next round, the first match is always tough."
Both sets followed a similar pattern, Pliskova surging to a 5-1 lead in the first and 3-0 in second. A loss of focus allowed Pavlyuchenkova to break and hold serve to trim the deficits.
But Pliskova snapped out of her brief funks each time and clinched her first win as number one with her seventh break.
A star-studded day on center court began with fourth-ranked Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza taming Belgian qualifier Kirsten Flipkens 7-5 6-2.
Second seed Simona Halep took care of surprise Wimbledon semi-finalist Magdalena Rybarikova with a relatively straightforward 6-3 6-4 win, while third seed German Angelique Kerber outlasted Donna Vekic 6-4 7-6(5).
American Venus Williams, playing in her first tournament since reaching the final at Wimbledon, again had to battle to advance as she defeated 21-year-old Katerina Siniakova 7-5 7-5.
Williams overpowered her Czech opponent with 12 aces and shrugged off several wasted break points after she converted just four of her 13 chances.
The 37-year-old will next face Elina Svitolina.
American teenager Catherine Bellis continued her brilliant form on the North American hardcourts by taking down eighth seeded Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova 6-4 7-5 to reach the third round.
The 18-year-old arrived in Toronto after reaching the semi-finals in Stanford last week.
Kuznetsova departed along with her 16th seeded compatriot Elena Vesnina, who suffered a 6-3 5-7 6-4 loss to Australian qualifier Ashleigh Barty, while Czech Lucie Safarova overcame 11th seeded Dominika Cibulkova 6-2 6-4.
In another upset, British seventh seed Johanna Konta was worn down by last week's Citi Open champion Ekaterina Makarova 5-7 7-6(4) 6-3.
Tenth seed Agnieszka Radwanska cruised easily past Timea Babos 6-0 6-1, while Petra Kvitova was eliminated by Sloane Stephens 7-6(4) 3-6 6-2.
MONTREAL (Reuters) - Roger Federer needed less than an hour to defeat Canadian Peter Polansky 6-2 6-1 at the Rogers Cup in Montreal on Wednesday in his first appearance since winning a record eighth Wimbledon title in July.
Gael Monfils produced the comeback of the day to beat Kei Nishikori in three sets while Canada's Denis Shapovalov enjoyed the biggest win of his young career by defeating hard-hitting Argentine Juan Martin del Potro 6-3 7-6(4).
A day after celebrating his 36th birthday, Federer played the aggressive game that has propelled him to five titles, including two grand slams, this year, attacking the net and rocketing second serves.
Polansky never looked comfortable after he double faulted twice in his first service game and had difficulty handling Federer's pinpoint serves.
Federer, who has lost only two of 34 matches this year,  will next play Spain's David Ferrer who prevailed in a three-setter against American Jack Sock 7-6(7) 3-6 6-1.
Rafa Nadal enjoyed an easy rout of Croatia's Borna Coric as he raced through the first set in just 29 minutes and did not face a break point until the 13th game.
"At the beginning of the match there were great points. I think I started playing so well in the first set and in general, I played a great match" Nadal told reporters of the 6-1 6-2 win.
"Last time that I played against him I lost, last year in Cincinnati. It was not an easy round for me."
Nadal will next face the 18-year-old Shapovalov who pumped his fists and rose his arms in triumph after dispatching the 2009 U.S. Open champion, who struggled with the accuracy of his serve during big moments in the match.
A Del Potro double fault put Shapovalov up a break at 6-5 in the second set, but nerves appeared to get to the tournament wildcard, who needed a tie-break to prevail.
Monfils, however, fended off four match points to beat Japanese world number nine Nishikori in a three-set thriller 6-7(4) 7-5 7-6(6).
The 27-year-old Nishikori had two chances to serve out the match and led 6-2 in the decisive tiebreak, before Monfils won six successive points to complete a superb fightback.
He will face Spaniard Roberto Bautista Agut in the third round.
Fourth seed Alexander Zverez and seventh seed Grigor Dimitrov each needed three sets to advance while ninth seed David Goffin was upset by South Korean Hyeon Chung 7-5 6-3.
Sixth seed Milos Raonic was also upset by Adrian Mannarino 6-4 6-4 while American Sam Querrey beat France's Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 6-1 3-6 6-4.
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury Department said on Wednesday it sanctioned major Mexican soccer star Rafael "Rafa" Marquez and more than 20 others for suspected links with an accused drug kingpin, tarnishing the reputation of one of Mexico's sporting giants.
Marquez, 38, along with a popular singer known as Julion Alvarez and nearly two dozen other Mexican nationals, is accused of financial ties with Raul Flores Hernandez, a suspected drug trafficker with links to the Sinaloa cartel and the Jalisco New Generation gang.
The U.S. Treasury Department said the designation was "the largest single Kingpin Act action against a Mexican drug cartel network that OFAC (the Office of Foreign Assets Control) has designated," and comes after U.S. President Donald Trump promised to crush Mexico's drug cartels.
"Raul Flores Hernandez has operated for decades because of his longstanding relationships with other drug cartels and his use of financial front persons to mask his investments of illegal drug proceeds," OFAC Director John E. Smith said in a statement, calling the move a "major joint action" with Mexico.
Maquez denied the accusations in a news conference Wednesday evening and vowed to cooperate with authorities.
"I deny categorically any type of relation with this organization," he said. "I understand the legal situation in which I find myself, and I will immediately focus my energy on the clarification of the facts with the support of my team of lawyers."
Marquez gave a voluntary declaration before the Mexican attorney general's office on Wednesday, the office said in a statement.
Marquez, who hails from the cartel-riddled state of Michoacan, is one of the country's best know sportsmen and has played in Europe for club sides FC Barcelona and Monaco. He still occasionally captains the Mexican national team, having represented his country in four World Cup soccer tournaments.
According to documents on the Treasury's website, Marquez was linked to Flores Hernandez's organization via a football school called Escuela de Futbol Rafael Marquez as well as various other sports and health outfits.
Marquez's current team, Club Atlas in Guadalajara, could not immediately be reached for comment.
The U.S. Treasury said it had sanctioned 43 entities linked to Flores Hernandez's holdings, from sectors including sport, hospitality and tourism and health.
Julio Cesar Alvarez, more commonly known as Julion Alvarez, is a popular "banda" singer. In a folksy video posted to his official Facebook page, Alvarez, 34, rejected the accusations against him.
"Everything I have, I've earned," he said. "I dedicated myself to making music, and thank God, I don't have the necessity to do many of the things they're accusing me of."
He added that he knew Marquez, and may invite him to join forces legally to defend themselves against the accusations.
In an awkward twist, Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto had posted a photo of himself with Alvarez to his Instagram page this week, but deleted it just before news of the sanctions against Alvarez broke.
A spokesman from the president's office declined to comment on why the photo was deleted.
Trump vowed to dismantle transnational crime groups in a February executive order. Little change in strategy has been seen so far, although there are some signs of increased cooperation with Mexican security forces.
WELLINGTON (Reuters) - Newly crowned world shotput champion Tom Walsh won the title in London despite a large tear in his groin that will limit his outings for the rest of the season.
Walsh's World Championships gold medal was the first ever for a man from New Zealand and the 25-year-old said he had been battling the groin injury when he threw 22.03 meters to clinch it on Monday.
"I've got a seven centimeter tear in my groin, and that pretty much means some time off from competing to rehab and repair," Walsh told Fairfax Media on Thursday.
"I've got some training to do in the next wee while to test out if it's any good or not, and we'll go from there."
The Rio Olympics bronze medalist suffered the injury in his final training session before he went out to top qualifying with a season best throw of 22.14m.
The Christchurch-based builder was limping noticeably after winning the title and said he would need a scan to determine the extent of the injury.
He had the scan in Britain on Wednesday and said he would now have to adjust his schedule as he sought a lucrative payday in the Diamond League.
"I'm meant to be doing five comps, but I will now not be able to do all five," he added.
"My first competition may be touch and go for the Birmingham Diamond League on August 20 but I will definitely be able to compete in Zagreb (Aug. 29) and the Diamond League final in Brussels (Sept. 1)."
Walsh is second in the Diamond League on 14 points behind American Olympic champion Ryan Crouser, who leads on 24, with the overall winner of the series pocketing $50,000.
Walsh earned $60,000 by winning the world title and said any additional prize money would be a big factor in keeping him going throughout the year.
"There is a long time between drinks, so to speak," he said.
"It is a costly business I'm in. I'm lucky that I get supported by the government pretty well and by Athletics NZ.
"It does make things slightly easier, but it's also good to make a bit more money if I can as well."
LONDON (Reuters) - Wayde van Niekerk's bid for 200 meters gold to complete the 200/400m World Championship double is the highlight of Thursday's action but, popular as the South African is, the crowd's sympathies are likely to lean towards Isaac Makwala.
After being refused entry to the 200m heats and 400m final because of illness, Botswana's Makwala was given a second chance and ran a solo heat on Wednesday.
He got the time he needed before coming through the semis to set up a mouth-watering clash in a wide-open event that has been won by the absent Usain Bolt at the last four World Championships.
The women's 400m hurdles final, the women's 200m semis and the men's triple jump final are the pick of the rest of the evening's events.
LONDON (Reuters) - American Phyllis Francis won a surprise World Championships 400 meters gold on Wednesday as Olympic champion Shaunae Miller-Uibo inexplicably stumbled when seemingly certain of victory in an extraordinary finale.
Francis looked out of the medals with 80 meters to go but maintained her form amid the carnage to post a personal best time of 49.92 seconds and take a shock gold that even after crossing the line she had no idea she had won.
Bahrain's Salwa Eid Naser, 19, claimed a brilliant silver in 50.06, her third national record this week, as defending champion Allyson Felix of the United States faded to get bronze in 50.08.
Bahamian Miller-Uibo, who famously dived over the line to pip Felix to Olympic gold last year, was clear with less than 20 meters left but as she tired and tied up she tripped on her own foot, stumbling almost to a standstill as her rivals stormed past.
It was incredible finish to a race that had appeared to be going to form for the first 300 meters. Felix looked her usual smooth self despite the sodden track and had made up the stagger on Francis, a lane outside her, by the end of the first bend.
However, she did not come off the final bend with her usual authority and Miller-Uibo surged ahead into the final straight.
The title seemed secure as Felix began to fade further but Miller-Uibo lost her form in the most dramatic style. Her legs seemed to stiffen, perhaps through cramp, and became entangled.
As she virtually stopped running, the fast-finishing Francis, Naser, Felix and fourth-placed Shericka Jackson of Jamaica all went past.
"I am so excited. It is such an amazing feeling, being world champion sounds pretty cool," said Francis, who finished fifth in the Rio Olympic final but took a gold in the 4 x 400m relay.
"This win has not hit me yet, but I guess it will tomorrow when I will wake up.
"Allyson and Shaunae are amazing finishers but when I went down the home straight I just believed in myself and stayed patient. I just knew what I was capable of doing, so I stuck to my race model.
"At the finish line I was surprised, I thought I was second or third, but then they told me 'you are first'. That is crazy."
Felix's bronze took her world championship medal haul to 14, matching the record of Jamaican sprinters Usain Bolt and Merlene Ottey. The American's tally includes nine golds and she could not disguise her frustration at not making it 10 - though she still has the 4x400m relay to come.
"I can't lie, I'm disappointed to lose one gold tonight but the championships is not over yet so we keep going," Felix said.
"But this was the one that mattered to me, the individual race, that is what it is about. So to come up short tonight is never fun. But I am happy for my team mate. At this level, you cannot under-estimate anyone."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Jordan Spieth begins his quest on Thursday to become the youngest man to complete the career grand slam as occasional thunderstorms and devilish new greens set the stage for an unpredictable PGA Championship.
The Quail Hollow course, already soft after heavy Monday rain, could receive another pounding or two from the heavens, with a good chance of thunderstorms at some stage from Friday through to the final round on Sunday.
"The last 48 hours we have had over an inch of rain and it's softened the course certainly more than we would want, but golf is an outdoor sport and it is what it is," said chief championship officer Kerry Haigh, who is in charge of the course set-up.
Already playing long, the 7100-yard par-71 layout will present a stern test to the 156-man field, and the new greens, a hardy strain of Bermuda grass with a strong grain that has often baffled players in practice, will throw another variable into the equation.
The favorites, with the exception of Hideki Matsuyama, have all spoken positively about their chances.
Spieth, 24, has downplayed the pressure of going for the grand slam, saying he should get another 30 or so chances to win the PGA.
He is perhaps unaware, however, that history shows otherwise.
All five men who completed the slam of all four modern majors -- Gene Sarazen, Ben Hogan, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player and Tiger Woods -- clinched the fourth leg in three tries or less after capturing the first three. Thirteen others won three legs and could not claim the elusive fourth.
Phil Mickelson, for example, is a six times runner-up at the U.S. Open, the only major missing from his collection.
Rory McIlroy is the bookmakers' favorite, partly on the back of his two victories at Quail Hollow on the PGA Tour in 2010 and 2015.
The Northern Irishman, however, is winless in 2017, and yet to put all the pieces of the puzzle together at the same time.
World number one Dustin Johnson has also struggled since he was forced out of the Masters after slipping on some stairs and has since been a pale shadow of the man who won three consecutive events in style heading to Augusta.
Johnson, who grew up not far across the state border in South Carolina, considers this to be a home game, but that alone does not guarantee he will find his early-year form.
A case can be made for world number three Matsuyama to become the first Japanese man to win a major, but he has been talking down his chances in pre-tournament interviews with Japanese media, saying his swing feels out-of-sorts.
Australian Jason Day, the 2015 champion, has been knocked off his stride this year following his mother’s cancer diagnosis, while Spaniard Sergio Garcia has made more headlines for his wedding than his on-course performances since winning the Masters.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Henrik Stenson said this year's PGA Championship at Quail Hollow starting on Thursday represents a role reversal with the U.S. Open.
Over the years, the U.S. Open has had the reputation of presenting the most difficult conditions among golf's majors and the PGA was known for course set-ups that allowed players to attack pins.
"I think if you look at this year, the U.S. Open played more like a PGA normally plays, and this one might play more like a U.S. Open normally plays," Sweden's 2016 British Open winner told Reuters after his Wednesday practice.
    "In general this is going to be a difficult week and you’ve got to keep the melon on," added Stenson, suggesting a cool head could be a key to success.
June's U.S. Open at Erin Hills produced a slew of scoring records, which is not likely to be the case at Quail Hollow.
The course's new greens have dominated talk from players, who have been exploring the perils of hitting into the grain or down grain on the firm, fast Bermuda grass putting surfaces.
"The greens are tough," South African Louis Oosthuizen told Reuters. "Better stay below the hole. I think there’s going to be loads of lag putting this week, even from short distances.
"If you’re in the wrong spot you can’t really afford to go for the putt," the 2010 British Open champion said.
Stenson said positioning approach shots was difficult.
"The problem here is that you very rarely can get a ball where you want to," he said. "Because of the design of the greens you have a lot of slight uphill into the grain, and on the other side it goes downhill and away."
Double Masters winner Bubba Watson praised the greens.
"The greens are perfect. The greens are running so fast, so nice," said Watson, although he said he would follow a conservative game plan.
"Most of the time you are hitting into the fat of the green because you’re hitting such long irons or hybrids," he said.
"I’m gonna hit a ton of hybrids this week, because the fairways are so soft because of the rain. The guy that wins is going to hit a lot of safe shots to the fat part of the green."
Young Spaniard Jon Rahm also liked the greens. "I think the greens are fantastic, they roll great. They are really fast down grain, but if you hit it on line there’s a high percentage of them going in.
"It will be complicated for everybody."
LONDON (Reuters) - Botswana's Isaac Makwala was cleared to run in the men's 200 meters at the World Athletics Championships on Wednesday by the IAAF which had previously barred him for medical reasons and he celebrated his reprieve by reaching the final.
Makwala was prevented from running in Monday's opening 200 meters heat and Tuesday's 400m final after falling victim to an outbreak of sickness that has hit many competitors.
The 30-year-old, seen as a leading contender in both events, had insisted he was fit enough to race while the sport's world governing body had said he had an infectious disease and needed to be quarantined.
But on Wednesday the IAAF said the quarantine period had ended and Makwala could run in the semi-finals in the evening - provided he first achieved the qualifying time of 20.53 seconds in an individual time trial before the main session.
"Following a medical examination which has declared him fit to compete, we have agreed under our existing rules that assuming he makes the qualification time, he will run in the 200m semi-final round this evening," the IAAF said in a statement.
The IAAF said it made the decision following a written request from Botswana's athletics federation. It said none of the athletes who had already qualified would be expelled to make way for him.
Makwala followed in the footsteps of the United States women's 4 x 100 meters relay team who ran alone against the clock after successfully appealing against their semi-final elimination at last year's Rio Olympics. They went on to win the gold medal.
Urged on by the crowd, he completed his solo attempt in 20.20 seconds, well inside the target, and finished second in his semi-final about two hours later despite running in the inside lane, widely regarded as the most difficult.
"I'm still running with my heart broken, I was ready to run the 400, that's the race I've been training for, I don't run the 200 very often," he said.
Makwala's saga began when he failed to appear for his opening 200 meters heat on Monday and the IAAF said shortly afterwards that he had been ordered to withdraw by its medical delegate.
On Tuesday, Makwala told the BBC he had been ready to race and was fit and well for the 400 meters final later in the day. Shortly afterwards, the IAAF withdrew him from that race as well.
Makwala still went to the stadium on Tuesday but when he attempted to go through the dedicated athletes' entrance an official and security personnel barred his way and he was led away.
Botswana sports minister Thapelo Olopeng was among those unhappy at the treatment of Makwala, a national hero.
"The manner in which our athlete was treated has hurt us all, as there was no conclusive evidence of the disease," he said. "Our officials have prepared a report and we have filed our concerns with IAAF."
Several athletes from Botswana, Germany, Canada, Ireland and Puerto Rico have been taken ill over the last few days, with some quarantined and others forced to miss their events.
Competition organizers said on Monday that the illnesses were a result of gastroenteritis, but public health officials said on Tuesday that laboratory tests had confirmed two cases of norovirus among approximately 30 victims.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Players at this week's PGA Championship have weighed in on the abilities of Jordan Spieth, who would become the youngest golfer to complete a career grand slam with a victory at Quail Hollow.
Phil Mickelson, who needs U.S. Open title for career slam.
"He has that intangible of when he doesn't have his best stuff ... to still find a way to win. When you say put your finger on it, you can't really identify and say it's this or it's that. It's just that indescribable trait that he has to find a way - to find a way to get it done.
"When you get him near the lead, he's extremely tough to beat because he just finds a way to gut it out."
Ernie Els, four times major winner.
"He's a special guy. Really showing some grit.
"He's not the longest hitter out there. He's not the most accurate, so forth. But he's got an overall game that he's really comfortable with. He's not trying to get more length out of the tee ball, but he's really playing his game and grinding it out.
Jimmy Walker, 2016 PGA winner, on Spieth's British Open win.
"It was phenomenal. We had to leave for the airport right about when he sent that one over by the driving range and kind of had to take that drop.
"It seemed like the wheels were falling off, but he's the kind of guy that it seems like when he gets behind a little bit, that's when he really starts to shine. You saw that. It was incredible."
Dustin Johnson, world number one and 2016 U.S. Open winner.
"If he happens to win this one, then he'd have a career grand slam. Obviously that's a great feat, especially as young as he is.
"It seems like whenever he needs to make long putts, he makes them. You can't teach that."
Adam Scott, the 2013 Masters champion
"I would say he is one of the best iron players for sure.
"If you look at the technical aspects of his swing, his clubface is the squarest about the second-longest period of time through impact on tour. I think Jim Furyk might have the squarest clubface through the ball and then Jordan would be next. When he putts well, that’s a nice little combo."
Rory McIlroy, who needs Masters win to complete career slam.
"Starting at the Travelers and holing that bunker shot to win, and then coming to The Open and then he does what he does at The Open. He pulls himself out of another hole.
"He has got that knack. I call it resilience. He has got this resilience where he gets himself in positions in tournaments where you don't think he can come back from and he does. It's awfully impressive.
"Resilience, mentally tough, strong, whatever you want to call it. That's his biggest asset. Being able to forget about a bad shot and move to the next one, that's his greatest weapon."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Australian Jason Day is taking a less is more approach at the PGA Championship in an effort to resurrect his dormant game.
Under a year since being the number one player in the world, Day has slipped to seventh, not exactly a freefall but hardly what he envisaged during the halcyon days of 2015 and 2016 when he won seven times in a sizzling 10-month period.
The 2015 PGA Championship winner arrived in Charlotte only on Tuesday night and did not step foot on Quail Hollow until Wednesday morning, preferring instead to spend the weekend and Monday honing his game in peace and quiet at his home in Ohio.
He has learned from past experience that arriving too early at a major has sometimes left him too mentally drained by the time the first shot is hit in anger on Thursday morning, especially with the demands that came from being number one.
“If I get to a major championship (early) then I’m practicing Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, that’s a lot of time that media or fans can get hold of you,” the Australian told a sparsely attended news conference on the tournament eve.
“Preparation is huge, I understand that, but it’s a matter of how mentally switched on I am and how much I want it will determine my week.”
Day said he was exhausted at the end of his stint at number one and plans to be more ruthless about when to say no to requests for his time if he ever gets back to the top.
Distracted by his mother’s battle with cancer this year, his short game and putting has been mediocre by his high standards, while he has struggled at times off the tee too.
“My short game has been pretty poor,” he said. “My putting has been the same and that’s added a little more pressure to the rest of my game.
“I feel like I’m starting to get back to the length that I had in 2015 (with the driver). That explosive power is coming back, which gives me confidence.”
Though Day has made little impact in the previous three majors this year – a tie for 22nd at the Masters being his best result - quality is not something that disappears overnight, even if form ebbs and flows.
“You never know what’s around the corner,” Day, 29, said. “I’m looking forward to this week because I’m starting to turn the corner. This has been a very, very poor year.”
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Jordan Spieth prides himself on his ability to adapt, and he has coped beautifully with the clamor surrounding his shot at supplanting Tiger Woods this week as youngest golfer to complete a career grand slam.
The cool-under-pressure Texan, who turned 24 two weeks ago, said on the eve of Thursday's start of the PGA Championship that he is "free-rolling" and feeling no extra stress at Quail Hollow.
"Do I have to be the youngest? No, I don't feel that kind of pressure. Would it be really cool? Absolutely," Spieth told reporters.
Spieth put himself on the brink of a career slam by winning last month's British Open for his third major, following 2015 triumphs at the Masters and U.S. Open.
"It was only weeks ago that I was able to get the third leg, and that's so fresh in my mind," Spieth said. "I'm free-rolling."
Spieth would be six months younger than Woods was when he won his grand slam with his victory at the 2000 British Open at St. Andrews.
World number two Spieth, who does not possess Woods' long-hitting power, has carved out his success with precise iron play, a brilliant short game and an ability to cope with adversity.
"It's just about being able to adapt to situations quickly and use that to my advantage," Spieth said, saying his major victories varied greatly compared with the romps Woods enjoyed  in his heyday.
At Royal Birkdale, a wild tee shot at the 13th hole of the final round led to a bogey that dropped him from the lead before a torrid finish brought him the Claret Jug.
"Each one of the major wins was very different from each other," he said. "And then I've had a few I've had a chance to win where I haven't, and each loss was different.
"You very rarely have parallel wins. Tiger had very parallel wins in the way that he got it done, but that was almost like a robot, and I don't really expect that to happen with myself."
Spieth noted that he managed to win at Royal Birkdale despite having issues with his vaunted putting touch.
"The British, I won without really feeling like I was putting well at all. I mean, the last five holes, six holes, was by far my best putting the entire week," he said.
"To win a major and feel as uncomfortable as I did for a lot of it over the putter is extremely confidence-building."
Spieth said he has also drawn strength from his most painful defeat, when he squandered a five-shot lead on Sunday's back nine at the 2016 Masters, enduring the humiliation of drowning two shots in Rae's Creek on the way to quadruple bogey seven at the short par-three 12th.
"I've already had enough not go well that I've almost accepted, OK, if this doesn't work out, then it doesn't work out. I'm going to have more chances," he said.
"Just that kind of freedom allows me to take the fear away of any potential bad situation. I've gone through what will probably and hopefully be the worst loss of my career in the most public eye that golf has," he said.
"So everything else that could happen is much lesser and therefore has probably helped me since then to focus and only see the positive that could come out of a situation.
"The chances go up that something beautiful could happen."
LONDON (Reuters) - Kenya’s Olympic and newly-crowned world 3,000 metres steeplechase champion, Conseslus Kipruto, said on Wednesday he would attempt a world record at the final Diamond League in Brussels on Sept. 1.
The 22-year-old Kipruto won silver in Moscow in 2013 and in Beijing in 2015 behind compatriot Ezekiel Kemboi.
He continued his country's dominance of the event with a courageous victory at the World Championships in London on Tuesday, just weeks after recovering from an ankle injury.
“Now that I have the Olympic and world titles, I think I am ripe for the world record, which I will attempt in Brussels on September 1,” Kipruto told Reuters.
“I think I am still strong enough. I am not promising that it will happen, but trying something is not bad. I want it now (world record)," he said.
Qatar’s Kenyan-born Saif Saaeed Shaheen set the world steeplechase record of 7:53.63 on Sept. 3, 2004 at the same Van Damme Memorial event in Brussels.
Kipruto’s ambition looks ambitious since his best time this season is 8:04.63, although he has a personal best of 8:00.12.
American Olympic silver medallist Evan Jager, who took bronze in London behind Kipruto and Morocco's Soufiane Elbakkali, has the world leading time of 8:01.29 and a personal best of 8:00.45.
Kenya's twice Olympic and four-time world champion Kemboi only managed 11th place in London in his last steeplechase before he launches a road race career in two weeks' time with a 10km before a half marathon in December and marathon in April.
Team mate Jairus Kipchoge Birech finished 12th.
Kipruto said Kemboi had left steeplechase for good.
“Today (Tuesday), after the race, Kemboi handed me the (steeplechase) baton. He came to me and told me: ‘Kipruto, I hand over to you the baton.' He did the same in Rio (at the Olympics) but after he was disqualified he changed his mind.
"Today, he did it and meant it. I will keep the baton and ensure we don’t lose it (the title) during my reign,” he said.
"The previous night, I feared Jager and the Moroccan (Elbakkali) may upset the Kenyans. But when I woke up yesterday, I told myself, 'I am the Olympic champion; why fear anybody?'
"Even if we did not win all the medals, as we had hoped, gold is everything. The race was very difficult, with a head wind hitting us directly,” added Kipruto.
(This version of the story refiles to fix typo in the headline)
(Reuters) - Real Madrid dominated Manchester United for large periods of the UEFA Super Cup on Tuesday before winning 2-1, confirming their position as the best team in Europe. Now Madrid's Zinedine Zidane faces a dilemma.
    Madrid have won consecutive Champions League trophies, retaining the cup in June with a victory over Juventus. They took the Spanish league title, too, powering over the line as Zidane switched to a 4-4-2 from a 4-3-3 after Gareth Bale's injury.   
    Zidane's problem is whether to stick with the 4-4-2 for the new season, or revert to the 4-3-3.
    In the 4-4-2, Isco was picked at the tip of the midfield diamond. He linked perfectly with Cristiano Ronaldo, who slipped into a No. 9 role with ease after years on the left wing.
    The formation suited Madrid's strengths, and Zidane use it again against Manchester United, even though Ronaldo was benched, since he had only recently returned to training after an extended summer break.
     Bale played up front, alongside Karim Benzema, and he linked nicely with Isco, too. The Welsh winger crashed a shot against the crossbar and then created the winning Madrid goal, playing a one-two with Isco, which put the playmaker through to curl a strike past David de Gea.
    Ronaldo appeared from the bench in the second half, and Zidane acknowledged that the striker was finding his fitness and may be in contention to start against Barcelona on Sunday in the Spanish Super Cup.
    "He's only been training with us for three days, but he's well and thinking about Sunday's game," Zidane said.
    But with the rise of Isco, the vaunted strike-line of Bale, Benzema and Cristiano no longer appears to be Madrid's best option. Isco's quality is undeniable, and he is a fan favorite, too.
    "His game and goal were very good," Zidane said after the Super Cup. "I'm very happy with him because he grows more and more. He's got art." said Zidane
    However, Isco has the lowest profile, making him the easiest for Zidane to bench. Bale and Ronaldo are two of the most expensive signings of all time, and both Zidane and club president Florentino Perez are particularly fond of Benzema.
    Reverting to 4-3-3 might keep his stars happy, but it could have negative consequences for the team, giving Zidane a problem to solve. It is a problem other coaches would love to have, but a problem nonetheless.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German carmaker Volkswagen said on Wednesday it had won a deal to become the new mobility partner of the EURO 2020 soccer championship, which it said it would use to showcase its new I.D. electric car model.
Volkswagen is banking on the popularity of soccer as it seeks to restore its image following the "dieselgate" emissions test cheating scandal and makes a strategic shift towards electric cars.
Last month, it said it would become the biggest commercial sponsor of Germany's national soccer team, replacing luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz after 45 years.
At the European soccer championship, it succeeds Hyundai, whose cars and buses shuttled championship officials and VIP guests during the EURO 2016 held in France.
For the tournament's 60th anniversary, organizers have chosen a controversial format by which 13 cities across the continent, rather than only one or two countries, will host matches.
(Reuters) - Team Sky rider Luke Rowe has broken his right leg during a white-water rafting trip and is set for a lengthy lay-off, the team said in a statement.
The 27-year-old, who sustained fractures to his tibia and fibula, has began his recovery process in Cardiff after undergoing a surgery.
"My brother Matt is getting married and so I was away with family and friends for his 'stag party'," Rowe said in the team statement.
"On the first morning we went whitewater rafting. I jumped down into the water but landed in a shallow section on my right leg.
"Being a bike rider you get in a lot of scrapes and you get used to injuries, but I knew straightaway that it was a bad one."
His coach Rod Ellingworth called it a "serious injury".
"An injury like this is a test of character for anyone, but character is something Luke has plenty of," Ellingworth said.
Rowe, Team Sky's road captain, rode on with a broken rib during the opening stage of the Tour de France to help Chris Froome win the title last month.
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - With Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro facing criticism from around Latin America and the world amid a deepening political crisis, Argentine soccer legend Diego Maradona said he was willing to fight for the embattled leftist regime.
"We are chavistas until death," Maradona wrote on his official Facebook page on Monday night, using a term to refer to supporters of late former Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez.
"When Maduro orders, I am dressed as a soldier for a free Venezuela, to fight against the imperialism and those who want to take our flags, which is the most sacred thing we have.
"Long live the revolution!!!" he wrote in a post in English, Spanish and Italian.
The defiant declaration brought a quick response from Maradona's former team mate on the national side, Mario Kempes.
Kempes, who was top goalscorer when Argentina won the 1978 World Cup, called Maradona out on twitter.
"@DiegoMaradona how can you support the death of 124 young people who defended liberty and democracy in their country," Kempes, now a commentator with ESPN, wrote.
The spat came just days after regional trade bloc Mercosur suspended Venezuela indefinitely, accusing Maduro of human rights violations and urging him to dismantle a newly created pro-government constituent assembly.
Maduro has lost allies around the region as several governments, including Argentina and Brazil, shifted to the right in recent years.
Maradona, who led Argentina to the World Cup title in 1986 and is widely considered one of the greatest players of all-time, is well-known for supporting leftist politicians in Latin America and was a friend of late Cuban leader Fidel Castro, whose face is tattooed on his leg.
His post prompted a critical response from Venezuelan opposition leader Henrique Capriles.
"If Maradona wants to come, I will personally go pick him up at the airport and show him around so he can see the situation in Venezuela," Capriles told an Argentine radio station on Tuesday. "The so-called revolution is indefensible."
Venezuela is suffering the worst crisis of its recent history, with triple-digit inflation and shortages of food and medicine.
(Reuters) - The World Umpires Association has hit out at Major League Baseball after umpire Joe West was reportedly suspended for three games due to comments he made about Texas Rangers third baseman Adrian Beltre.
The 64-year-old's comments appeared in a USA Today article marking the umpire's 5,000th game. When asked who was the 'biggest complainer' West said it was Beltre.
“Every pitch you call that's a strike, he says, 'Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!' I had a game with him recently and the pitch was right down the middle. He tells me, 'That ball is outside,'" West told USA Today.
“I told him, 'You may be a great ballplayer, but you're the worst umpire in the league. You stink.’”
Local media quoted the umpires association as saying West's comments were made in jest and were part and parcel of baseball.
“Joking interactions between umpires and players are a routine part of the game," the union said in its statement. “We disagree strongly with the decision to punish Joe West simply for sharing a humorous exchange with a player.”
(Reuters) - Argentinean Diego Schwartzman provided the day’s biggest upset at the Rogers Cup when he took down third seed Dominic Thiem in a nearly three-hour battle on Tuesday.
Schwartzman climbed out of a 5-2 deficit in the decisive set, repeatedly escaping trouble, to win five straight games and pull off the victory 6-4 6-7(7) 7-5.
Schwartzman had defeated 16th ranked Roberto Bautista Agut earlier in the year and pushed Novak Djokovic to five sets at the French Open, but his win over Thiem is his biggest win of the season.
Thiem made eight double faults in the loss.
Earlier, American Sam Querrey overcame a sluggish start to defeat Frenchman Vincent Millot 4-6 7-6(4) 7-5.
The battle was the second meeting between the pair in a week after Querrey defeated Millot in straight sets at the Los Cabos Open on Thursday, a tournament the American won.
The 29-year-old Querrey staved off the upset bid by the 31-year-old Millot despite moving sluggishly around the court and his trusty first serve not being its usual lethal weapon.
His frustration boiled over early in the third set of the ATP 1000 event when he destroyed his racquet after having his service broken. He won the next four games after the outburst.
Querrey will face another Frenchman, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, the 2014 champion, in the round of 32 on Wednesday.
Emerging Canadian Denis Shapovalov defeated Brazilian Rogerio Dutra da Silva 4-6 7-6(8) 6-4 in a thriller.
Backed by a home crowd that included Canadian NHL Hall of Famer Wayne Gretzky, the 18-year-old staved off four match points in the second set before taking it in a tie breaker.
"The fans really carried me. It was so fun to be out there on the court, it was so loud and energetic," Shapovalov said. "It’s a huge win. It gives me a lot of confidence and a lot of experience."
Shapovalov, who won the junior Wimbledon title last year and was granted a wildcard to the main tournament this year, faces the big-hitting Argentine Juan Martin del Potro in the second round.
Earlier on Tuesday, Czech Tomas Berdych, the number 10 seed, withdrew from the tournament prior to his first round match against Nikoloz Basilashvili citing a rib injury.
"I am sorry I have to apologise all my Montreal fans. I couldn't play, because of my rib dysfunction I need to get well to go to (the) office soon," Berdych said on Twitter.
His withdrawal led to a quick call to the lucky loser American Ernesto Escobedo, who had five minutes to prepare for the match, which he claimed with an upset 7-6(4) 6-4 victory.
In other matches, Belgian David Goffin and Spaniard Pablo Carreno Busta prevailed in their respective three-setters and American Jack Sock beat Pierre-Hugues Herbert in straight sets.
LONDON (Reuters) - Kenya's Conseslus Kipruto continued his country's dominance of the 3,000 meters steeplechase with a courageous and confident victory at the World Championships on Tuesday, just weeks after recovering from an ankle injury.
A silver medalist in Beijing two years ago and Olympic champion in Rio last year, Kipruto kicked on to take the lead with less than 300 meters left and was celebrating well before crossing the finish line in a time of 8 minutes 14.12 seconds.
The east African nation has now won 12 out of the 15 editions of the race in World Championships history.
"I'm happy to be world champion. Last year I became Olympic champion and this year to be world champion was my hope," Kipruto told reporters.
"I used my plans well and last night for morale I told myself: 'I am Olympic champion and that others must break me'. There are others who are strong but I used my own plans. I knew if the race was around 8:10 that I was going to win."
There was no clean sweep as there was in Beijing, however, as Soufiane El Bakkali of Morocco stayed with the leading group throughout to clinch silver - his first major medal.
The 21-year-old, at his first World Championships, was in tears after the race.
"That was a bit of a surprise. I thought I would maybe get a medal next time, so this is great," he said.
Kipruto, 22 years old, also won silver in his first World Championships in 2013. However, this time he made sure it was third time lucky and came down the final straight pointing to the crowd and stretching out his arms in celebration.
It was a surprising sight, given Kipruto suffered an ankle injury at the national trials in June and only resumed full training last month.
A Kenyan win did not look certain for much of the race. Evan Jager came to London as favorite following his Olympic silver medal last year and Kipruto's injury.
The American led the field round and looked to be on course for victory until he was overtaken by the Kenyan.
Jager held on to take bronze in 8:15.53 and become the first American to win a world championship medal in the steeplechase.
"I thought I was running really smoothly for gold. I ran it the way I thought would give me the best opportunity at winning, by taking it out," Jager said.
"I'm really happy to be on the podium, for sure, but I'm also disappointed because I had pretty high hopes of coming in here and winning gold, especially with the injury Conseslus picked up. I thought it gave me a great chance to win gold."
LONDON (Reuters) - - Kenya’s four-time world champion Ezekiel Kemboi said Tuesday's world championship final where he finished 11th would be his last outing in the 3,000 meters steeplechase.
Although he has previously backtracked on declarations to quit the event that he has dominated for more than a decade, Kemboi, 35, insisted that this time he meant it.
"This was my last steeplechase race. You will never see me run the race again,"  said the man who had won the previous four world titles and finished second in the three before that.
"I am launching my road race career in two weeks with a 10km road race, a half marathon in December and a full marathon in April next year.
Kemboi was in contention until the final lap but could not respond when compatriot and Olympic champion Conseslus Kipruto accelerated and went on to win in eight minutes, 14.12 seconds.
Moroccan Soufiane Elbakkali took silver and American Evan Jager bronze as Kemboi went backwards and recorded his worst finish in a major steeplechase.
"I am not disappointed. Contrary to many peoples’ opinion, I am happy to be here in London for my eighth "World Championships," he said.
"Not many athletes are blessed with such staying power - it has been a long career. Kipruto was less than 10-years-old when I won my first major title."
Although Kipruto's victory maintained Kenya's astonishing dominance of the grueling event, Kemboi said it was not guaranteed to continue.
"You can no longer say this is a Kenyan race. Probably we will need new coaching techniques and tactics, we need to modify our coaching to return to where we were," he said.
Kemboi won his first major steeplechase medal at the 2002 Commonwealth Games, where he took silver, and went on to take Olympic gold in 2004 and 2012.
LONDON (Reuters) - An emotional Barbora Spotakova of the Czech Republic said it felt "so easy" to regain the javelin world title she first won 10 years ago at the World Championships on Tuesday.
The world record holder threw 66.76 meters on her second attempt in the final, which proved enough to clinch a second world gold for the 36-year-old.
In the same stadium where she won the second of her Olympic titles five years ago, a jubilant Spotakova was lifted aloft by a member of her team following her final throw.
"At this stadium, I am unbeatable. There must be something in the air about London. I cannot explain it but when I enter this stadium, I always feel so calm and relaxed. I believed I could really win it today, I was so focused and confident," she said.
"The whole day I was thinking about my last world title which was 10 years ago in Osaka. Actually, it is also almost exactly five years since my Olympic title here in London.
"These facts made me feel very emotional and I could not believe it has been already such a long time ago. I do not even know if I deserve this title today, it felt so easy."
Although she did not come anywhere near to her world record mark of 72.28, it was a vast improvement on the previous year for the Czech who took bronze at the Rio Olympics.
Sara Kolak of Croatia, the Olympic champion, missed out on the medal places by finishing fourth.
China's Li Lingwei, twice Asian champion, threw a personal best of 66.25 to clinch silver and her compatriot Lyu Huihui, who came second in Beijing two years ago, claimed bronze with her penultimate throw of 65.26.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Rory McIlroy is comfortable in the role of favorite this week at the PGA Championship and the 28-year-old said on Tuesday that his history at Quail Hollow puts him at great ease.
"I've had a lot of success here before," the world number four told reporters. "I've always played well here. I've always felt comfortable on this golf course."
McIlroy has played Quail Hollow seven times and won twice, firing a 62 in 2010 on the way to claiming his first PGA Tour title and a course-record 61 in winning the 2015 title. As for PGAs, he has played in eight and won two.
The four-times major winner was installed as 7-1 favorite over British Open champion Jordan Spieth, rated at 8-1 by online betting service Bovada in his quest to complete a career grand slam.
"Sounds like decent value," McIlroy joked with reporters.
"I think it's partly to do with the upturn in form that I've had over the last few weeks, and then my history on this golf course: a couple of wins, beaten in a playoff, a few other top 10s," said the Northern Irishman, coming off top-five finishes at the British Open and last week's WGC-Bridgestone.
It is a changed Quail Hollow this week, made longer with revisions to three holes on the front nine and more difficult with rough added and greens made faster - alterations that McIlroy said suited him.
The Northern Irishman is looking for his first win of 2017 and first major in three years in the face of injuries, equipment switches and a change of caddie, but believes he has nothing to prove.
"I've proven myself enough over the last nine years of my career. Obviously I wouldn't have won as much as I would have liked this year, and there's been a few components to that, injury-wise, changing equipment and stuff. It has been a bit of a transitional year."I feel like everything's settled. My health is pretty much where it needs to be. I just want to go out and play my game and hopefully that will be good enough."
McIlroy said confidence is a powerful factor in golf.
"There's certain golf courses that you just can see yourself shoot a score on," he said. "There's some golf courses you go to that give you that feeling... that's sort of how it feels here."I think once you go back to a place where you do have great memories, all that starts to come flooding back to you and it makes you feel good about yourself.
"This has been a week I've been looking forward to for a long time and I'm glad it's here and I'm glad I'm showing up for this week feeling like my game is in good shape."
LONDON (Reuters) - Defending champion Zuzana Hejnova signaled her intent to win a third successive 400 meters hurdles world title after qualifying fastest for the final at the World Championships on Tuesday.
The Czech won her opening heat comfortably in a time of 54.59 seconds ahead of Kori Carter of the U.S. who will compete in her first world senior final on Thursday.
American Dalilah Muhammad, the Olympic champion, ensured her place in the London Stadium showpiece with a run of 55.00, just ahead of Canada’s Sage Watson.
Jamaica’s Ristananna Tracey and Switzerland’s Lea Sprunger also made it safely through and there was joy for the home crowd as Briton Eilidh Doyle qualified via one of the fastest non-automatic places, along with Cassandra Tate of the U.S.
LONDON (Reuters) - World 100 meters champion Tori Bowie abandoned her bid to add the 200 meters gold when she withdrew from the heats of the longer event at the World Championships on Tuesday.
The 26-year-old American had suffered cuts and bruises in winning the 100 meters title after tumbling headlong on to the track following her dip to claim victory.
She could have joined Katrin Krabbe and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce as the only women to have completed the 100/200m double in the same world championships but had admitted to feeling "beaten up" after her fall.
Now, she faces a battle to be fit for the 4x100 meters relay.
"Tori Bowie has withdrawn from the 200 meters as she continues to recover from her fall at the conclusion of the women's 100-metre final Sunday evening," the U.S. team said in a statement.
"Her condition will continue to be evaluated to assess her readiness for the 4x100 relay."
The news that Bowie would not be competing caused a shock when it was announced just before her heat as she had been favorite to take the gold medal.
The fastest competitor in the world this year, having clocked 21.77 seconds, her absence threw the event, which had already looked tight to call, even more wide open.
It meant good news for the other leading contenders, though, headed by defending champion Dafne Schippers, who was the fastest qualifier from the heats, and another heat winner, 100 meters silver medalist Marie-Josee Ta Lou.
"It's sad that she (Bowie) isn't in this event because I like to compete against the strongest field possible," Ta Lou said.
Schippers, who took bronze in the 100 meters after a poor start, was happy to be on more comfortable territory in the half-lap event, striding out to an emphatic heat win in 22.63.
"The medal in the 100 was a boost for me. I've recovered well from that race an was looking forward to this one, it's my favorite event," the Dutchwoman said.
Ta Lou, who lost out on the gold to Bowie in the 100 by one-hundredth of a second before receiving congratulations from Ivory Coast's President Alassane Ouattara, progressed to Thursday's semi-finals in 22.70, the third fastest of the night.
Olympic 400 meters champion Shaunae Miller-Uibo, who like Wayde van Niekerk in the men's sprints is seeking a 400/200m double, had already booked her place in Wednesday's one-lap final.
Yet even when trying to conserve as much energy as possible, the Bahamas sprinter still strode out to the easiest heat win in 22.69 to be the second fastest.
In Bowie's absence, the U.S. still have two formidable contenders in heat winners Kimberlyn Duncan (22.74 seconds) and Deajah Stevens (22.90 seconds).
LONDON (Reuters) - The London hotel at the center of an outbreak of sickness that has struck down scores of competitors at the World Athletics Championships said on Tuesday it was not the source of the illness.
Several Botswana, German, Canadian, Irish and Puerto Rican athletes staying at the Tower Hotel, near Tower Bridge, have been taken ill over the last few days, with some put into effective quarantine and others forced to miss their events.
The victims included Botswana's Isaac Makwala, who was ordered by the global athletics body, IAAF, to withdraw from Tuesday evening's 400 meters final, where he had expected to be the lead challenger to world record holder Wayde van Niekerk.
Thirty German competitors arriving on Tuesday, as well as Olympic javelin champion Thomas Rohler who arrived on Monday, have been moved to other hotels.
"It is purely a precautionary measure," German team spokesman Peter Schmitt said.
Competition organizers said on Monday that the illnesses were a result of gastroenteritis, but public health officials said on Tuesday that laboratory tests have confirmed two cases of norovirus among approximately 30 illness victims.
Norovirus, sometimes called "the winter vomiting bug," is easily spread, partly because the virus can survive for several days outside the body, Britain's National Health Service says.
"The main issue facing the organizers will be one of trying to attain swift containment, which will be pretty challenging due to the nature of the virus," Shirley Kirnon, a lecturer in Infection Control at Birmingham City University, said.
"It is highly infectious. For those affected, symptoms of nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea can occur within a relatively short period of time; approximately 12-48 hours after exposure."
Tower Hotel, used annually as the base for the London Marathon, said in a statement: "We have worked collaboratively with the EHO (Environmental Health Officer) and the IAAF to investigate the origins of the illness and can confirm that the hotel was not the source.
"We have followed strict hygiene protocol, ensuring that those affected are not in contact with other guests and all public areas have been thoroughly sanitized."
London 2017 organizers said on Monday night that a number of teams had reported cases of gastroenteritis.
"Those affected have been supported by both team and LOC medical staff, in addition we have been working with Public Health England to ensure the situation is managed and contained," the organizing committee said in a statement.
Makwala was withdrawn from the 200-metre heats on Monday after vomiting in the call room where athletes make their final preparations. He had still been hoping to be cleared to race in Tuesday's 400m final, before the IAAF's medical delegate withdrew him from that as well.
"According to IAAF medics I am apparently suffering from food poisoning which has affected several other athletes in the athletes' hotel," Makwala wrote on his Facebook page late on Monday. "Lets hope they will allow me to run my final tomorrow."
Irish athletes were staying at the Tower, and their 400m hurdler Thomas Barr was another to suffer, missing his semi-final on Monday.
"I wasn't feeling great yesterday evening and later in the night I was hit with a bout of gastroenteritis," he said. "My whole year has been focused on the World Championships and to not be able to go out and compete for Ireland today is beyond disappointing."
At least seven Canadians were affected, including Eric Gillis, who was forced to drop out of Sunday's marathon after around 20 miles.
"I was one of the athletes in quarantine," Canadian sprinter Aaron Brown said. "I was in my room the entire day in the dark. I was like a vampire. I was holding my stomach the entire night."
Brown recovered well enough to race in Monday's 200m heats and ran an impressive 20.08 seconds, only to be disqualified for a lane violation.
Olympic champion Elaine Thompson was also physically sick before the 100 meters final on Sunday, though the Jamaican said that was not unusual for her and hadn't had any effect on her below-par performance. She finished fifth.
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - The reintroduction of golf at the Olympics was a major reason for moving the PGA Championship from August to May, starting in 2019, PGA of America CEO Pete Bevacqua said on Tuesday.
Bevacqua, speaking at a joint news conference with PGA Tour commissioner Jay Monahan at Quail Hollow, said it was important for his organization to seize the moment.
"The landscape of golf is changing and it's changing because of the Olympics," Bevacqua said.
“We think that this is in the best interests of the PGA of America and the PGA Championship to make this move to position us for the next hundred years of the PGA Championship.
"We felt it was important as an organization to seize this opportunity ... We feel May is a far more powerful date for us to contest our major championship."
Bevacqua also ruled out taking the PGA Championship overseas, at least in the next decade, a radical move that the body considered when it was weighing its various options.
The switch to May will ripple through the global golf calendar, not least reshuffling the order in which the four men's majors are held.
It will also allow for the Ryder Cup to be moved forward slightly from its traditional date in the first week of October, Bevacqua said.
Instead of being the final major of the year, the PGA Championship will become the second of the season, after the April Masters.
The U.S. Open in June will be the third major, with the British Open in July concluding the majors schedule.
The PGA Championship has been held in August since 1972, except for last year, when it was played in July to accommodate golf's return to the Olympics.
The next Olympics, in Tokyo 2020, will be held from July 24 to Aug. 9.
Monahan also announced that the Players Championship, the flagship event of the PGA Tour, would move from May to March.
The event was moved from March to May in 2007.
The 2019 PGA Championship will be played at Bethpage Black on New York's Long Island, with Harding Park in San Francisco hosting the 2020 event.
The switch to May should mean somewhat cooler weather than the traditionally hot and humid dog days of summer, and Bevacqua said it would allow the PGA to consider venues in the southern U.S. that previously had been off the table.
Reaction from top players was positive.
“I kind of like the changes,” said world number one Dustin Johnson, who likes the thought of one big event each month from March until the end of summer.
“It's going to kind of space everything out a little bit more instead of it all being kind of crammed together. So it gives you a little bit more time to prepare.”
Northern Ireland's four-time major winner Rory McIlroy was even more enthusiastic.
“To now have one really big tournament every month from March and to have the FedExCup most likely at the end of August or start of September; it just has a better flow to it, I think.
“I've been a big supporter of it from the first time I heard about it, and the announcement today, I think has been very well received by a lot of the players in the locker room.”
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Dustin Johnson reckons he may be poised to give a winning performance in his "home game" this week and shed four months of frustration at the PGA Championship at North Carolina's Quail Hollow starting on Thursday.
World number one Johnson, who grew up an hour away in South Carolina, said many factors were coming together for him this week at the year's last golf major and that he rated his form at 8.5 on a scale of 10.
"I've been working hard on the game. I feel like it's finally coming back into form," he told reporters on Tuesday. "Last week I felt like I got some things worked out in the swing that were just holding me back a little bit.
"Right now, I feel it's close to when I was playing really well before Augusta."
Johnson firmly ruled the world of golf after successive wins at the Genesis Open at Riviera, the WGC-Mexico and WGC-Match Play in a brilliant February-to-March stretch.
A huge favorite going into April's U.S. Masters, the big-hitting American slipped on some stairs where he was staying in Augusta and hurt his back, forcing him to withdraw and return to the drawing board after time off recovering.
"Obviously it's really frustrating. But things happen. You've just got to deal with them, and I feel like the golf game's in really good shape right now," he said. "I feel like I'm driving it really well again."Things happen, and so now I've just got to fight and practice and work hard to get back to where I was."
Johnson missed cuts at The Memorial and U.S. Open and tied for 54th at the British Open. But a tie for eighth at the Canadian Open and a share of 17th at last week's WGC-Bridgestone Invitational have helped restore confidence.
Johnson, the 2016 U.S. Open champion, said this might be the time and place to get back to the winner's circle.
"I grew up about an hour down the road. My family will be up watching, supporting me. I've got a lot of fans in this area and then obviously Columbia (S.C.) is not that long of a drive," said Johnson. "It's kind of a home game for me, so it's nice."
Johnson has also had many frustrating disappointments at majors, including the 2010 PGA Championship at Whistling Straits where he was penalized for grounding his club in what was ruled a bunker on the 72nd hole that kept him from joining a playoff.
"No, I don't think it owes me one," he said about the 2010 PGA title that eluded him. "It was my fault. I grounded a club in what they still say is a bunker," he said to laughter from reporters.
"But obviously, it's a major championship. It's a tournament that I would definitely like to win, and I feel like there is no  better week than this one."
CHARLOTTE, North Carolina (Reuters) - Paula Creamer has replaced the injured Jessica Korda on the United States team for next week's Solheim Cup, American captain Juli Inkster announced on Tuesday.
Inkster chose Creamer, a six-time Solheim Cup veteran, as her alternate on Sunday when she selected her team to defend the title against Europe in the biennial tournament.
Korda has been battling a forearm injury for several weeks and withdrew from the Women’s British Open after the first round last Thursday to seek treatment.
"Sadly the injury to my forearm is not going to heal in time for the Solheim Cup,” Korda, a four-time winner on the LPGA Tour, wrote in a social media post on Monday.
"I cannot put the team at risk of me not being 100 percent so unfortunately I have had to make the difficult decision of relinquishing my spot on the team.”
The Solheim Cup will be played at Moines Golf & Country Club in West Des Moines, Iowa starting on Aug. 18.