
Liverpool have expressed an interest in signing Jean Michaël Seri from Nice as Jürgen Klopp searches for midfield alternatives to Naby Keïta.
The Ivory Coast midfielder has been tracked by several Premier League clubs this summer including Arsenal, Everton. Tottenham and Swansea after excelling in Nice’s third-place finish in Ligue 1 last season. The 25-year-old has also been scouted by Paris Saint-Germain and Barcelona, who sent scouts to watch him in action in Friday’s home defeat against Troyes.
But after Barça announced the signing of former Tottenham midfielder Paulinho on Monday, it remains to be seen whether they will make a bid for Seri despite indicating that they were willing to meet his asking price of €40m (£34m) this month.
That could open the door for Liverpool to make a bid, with officials understood to have made contact with Nice in recent days to enquire over his availability. Despite offering £66m to RB Leipzig last month, they have been frustrated in their attempts to sign Guinea international Keïta and accept that a deal for the 22-year-old is more likely to be achieved next summer, when a clause in his contract stipulates he can leave for €55m.
Having already sold the Brazilian full-back Dalbert Henrique to Internazionale for €20m, the French side are under no pressure to part with their prized asset but are understood to have told Seri they will not stand in his way if a suitable bid is received. Any move may have to wait until after Nice have played in their Champions League qualifier against Napoli, with the first leg taking place in Italy on Wednesday.
Arsenal have also been in touch with Seri’s representatives in recent weeks, although it is believed that they will not make a move unless they are able to offload players in the coming days.
“I’ve seen things I don’t think anyone else has seen in football,” Jermaine Pennant says on a late afternoon streaked with fading sunshine in Essex. We sit together on a small concrete bench behind an empty series of pitches which nurture the football dreams of boys at the West Ham Academy but, today, provides the training ground for Pennant’s unlikely new team. Billericay Town play in the Bostik Premier League, a regional division of semi-professional clubs which occupies the seventh tier of English football.
Pennant has played for Arsenal and Liverpool, scored a hat-trick in his first full Premier League game and appeared in Champions League and FA Cup finals, but the 34-year-old has endured too many bruising experiences to think only of past glory. “I feel good here,” Pennant says. “It’s the next step and I’ve had a taste of everything football can throw at you … the highs, the lows, the in-betweens. I can bring everything I’ve learnt to what I do here.”
Billericay is different to everything else – from the bleak Meadows estate in Nottingham where he lost his mum to cancer at the age of three, to becoming the most expensive teenage footballer in Britain when he was bought for £2m by Arsenal as a 15-year-old, to his dad being jailed for dealing crack and heroin, to Pennant himself ending up in prison, to facing Milan at the Olympic Stadium in Athens in the 2007 Champions League Final, to playing for clubs in settings as diverse as Stoke, Singapore, India, Wigan and Bury.
‘Prison did change me. I’ve got to take credit for not letting it destroy me’
Pennant stresses that Billericay is not a last resort for an ageing footballer often accused of squandering his talent by people who have never met him. “There were so many options,” he says after enjoying Edinburgh during his month-long trial at Hibernian in June. “It was not only Hibs. I could have gone to Turkey, Cyprus, back to India, Indonesia. This was definitely not the only deal on offer. People wouldn’t bat an eyelid if I went to the top division in Turkey or Cyprus but this is about the big picture. When I had the offer from Glenn Tamplin [Billericay’s millionaire owner and now manager] I couldn’t turn it down. There could be opportunities here to prepare for coaching or management.”
Few people might imagine Pennant as a future football manager because, to many, he remains locked in an image that stems from his wayward days which culminated in him serving a third of his three-month jail sentence for a drink-driving offence in 2005. His ill-disciplined behaviour at Arsenal and on loan at Birmingham was echoed by an unhappy spell in La Liga, at Real Zaragoza in 2009-10, when he was never picked again after being late for training three times in two weeks. Pennant’s private life, featuring relationships with various glamour models, was often splashed across the tabloids.
He now thinks about football and life with much more clarity and depth. “Definitely. I’m taking everything more seriously because you can’t play forever. You’ve got to grow up. You’ve got to be a man and take care of business and your family. Obviously, I made many mistakes. But I was young and it was exciting. You have a lot of money at such a young age – as well as the responsibilities and pleasures. You’re in the public eye and I was just enjoying it and not realising I was also a role model. But I’m different now.”
His formative years were shaped by the death of his mother. “I was with my dad from the age of three. He moved on multiple times, with multiple women, always chopping and changing. I’m the oldest of four. It’s me, one brother and two sisters. They stayed with their mums. So it was just me and my dad and wherever he went I went. I never had that mum figure and half of my problems came from that point. I also didn’t have a stable dad back then. There was a big gap in my early-to-mid-teens where I didn’t have either.”
In the midst of such confusion, in 1999, Arsenal signed him from Notts County and his manager, Sam Allardyce, railed against the London club’s “underhand” tactics. A brittle and precocious teenager might have been rescued – but Arsène Wenger’s patience ran out. Years later Pennant praises Wenger before detailing how his Arsenal career unravelled. “Of all the managers I played under, Arsène had the most influence. That’s where I learned my tricks of the trade – through Arsène.
“But he never quite gave me the opportunity. That was frustrating but Arsène is very strict and if your attitude is not right he won’t give you that chance. At the same time that was half the reason why my attitude wasn’t always right. I was spot-on for months. I was playing well for the reserves but it was like he’d lost faith in me. It seemed as if no matter what I did I wouldn’t get that chance. It was hard because we had a great team. The Invincibles. I was proud to train with that squad every day.
“You remember that game where I scored the hat-trick for Arsenal? The 6-1 win against Southampton [in May 2003 when Pennant’s only goals for the club came during a dazzling 11-minute burst in the first half]? That was my first-ever [league] start for Arsenal and it was great.”
His hat-trick marked the first match in Arsenal’s famous 49-game unbeaten streak which would carry the Invincibles to the title the following season. Yet Pennant made only 12 appearances for Arsenal during the six years he was contracted to the club. “After the hat-trick I was on the bench the next game [a 4-0 win at Sunderland to finish the 2002-03 season]. I thought that was the start of it and I would just kick on at Arsenal. But it never happened and I got more and more frustrated and lost interest. I thought ‘this is going nowhere’.”
That frustration contributed to the loss of his driving licence nine months later and, in January 2005, the accident that resulted in his prison term. “Yeah, I went off the rails” Pennant says, for he smashed his Mercedes into a lamp-post while over the limit and still banned from driving. “My family wasn’t around and, being so young, you make wrong decisions. The next thing I was in prison.”
He looks up and says, “Of course,” when I ask if he remembers his prison number. “MX7232. I don’t think I’ll ever forget it. Prison did change me. But not many people experience that and then play in a Champions League final. I’ve got to take some credit for not letting it destroy me.”
Rafael Benítez and Liverpool signed him on a four-year contract in July 2006. He recalls how being doubted by Wenger’s assistant, Pat Rice, spurred him on. “I definitely used it. He told my agent: ‘He’s not going to make it.’ I don’t know if he had it in for me or if my personality was a bit rich. He’s old school, Pat, but I always believed I’d make it. At Liverpool I said to my agent after scoring against Chelsea and playing in the Champions League final: ‘I wonder if Pat watched the game tonight?’”
Pennant laughs. “I saw Pat again when I played for Stoke against Arsenal a few times. It was kinda frosty between us at the Britannia. We won 3-1 and I scored and ran past the Arsenal fans to rub it in. That was a good moment. For Pat to say: ‘You’re not going to make it’ and then I play the Champions League final and score against his team was pretty sweet.”
Yet Pennant had not sustained his early success at Liverpool. “The first season I did well. Liverpool were also the team I supported as a boy. So it was great. The turning point with Rafa came when I got injured. I had a stress fracture in my shin and the next season, after surgery, I was out for three months. I rushed back and didn’t play well in my first game against Wigan because I was trying to nurse it. After that I struggled to get back in the team. I just want to play because then I give 110%. If I’m not playing I don’t. I now know that’s wrong.”
Pennant’s new managerial ambition is underpinned by a realisation of how lost he would feel without football. “Three years ago I would’ve said: ‘No chance – as soon as I’m finished playing that’s it.’ But as you get older you understand more. When you go through a long spell without a club you think: ‘Can I go on without football in my life? It’s all I know.’ You start thinking how much you’d miss the boys. You’d miss celebrating a goal or a win. At least as a coach you’re still part of that. It’s still a job and I need to earn a living. I also have a lot to offer after everything that’s happened.”
Could there be a future coaching role at Billericay? “I’m sure. If everything goes according to plan and we jump the leagues my experience and football IQ might be very useful.”
Pennant will confront the inequities faced by any aspiring black coach or manager. “It’s a tough battle and it’s sad to see in this time. But Chris Hughton and Chris Powell are showing that the minority are as good as anyone else. Chris Hughton took Brighton into the Premier League. How many managers have done that? It’s great. Hopefully it will open the eyes of owners and prove the colour of your skin does not define how well your team will do.
“You’d think the lower the level the more doors will open. All you can do as is try your hardest and make sure your team wins. Being a black manager makes you a little more focused I guess. But I’m not there yet. At the moment I’m concentrating on playing at Billericay.”
When Tamplin and I talk, while Pennant changes in a dressing room including other ex-Premier League players in Jamie O’Hara and Paul Konchesky, the Billericay owner and manager reiterates that his star signing will be offered coaching opportunities. “I don’t judge anyone on their past,” Tamplin says. “We’ve all gone through dark days. You have to be in the devil’s pit to learn the truth about yourself. I was in that devil’s pit for four months [when Tamplin was seriously depressed before using his wealth to transform Billericay]. Jermaine’s also been through that pit but he’s great now. I’m a born-again Christian, a businessman and a good judge of character. I take on no big egos, no bad eggs.”
Tamplin is convinced that, despite losing their opening match of the season to Kingstonian on Saturday, Billericay will be promoted to the Football League within five years. Such ambition means the Essex club is derided by rival supporters – amid rumours Tamplin is paying £30,000 a week in wages. “It’s rubbish,” he says. “No-one is getting more than a thousand a week. Not even Jermaine. He made his debut in a friendly against West Ham and we had the biggest crowd in our history. 4,582. Jermaine scored a corker. Top bins. Beautiful.”
I have no regrets coming here. I’m 34, not 24. Not many players play at the highest level all their life
Pennant is more understated. “I want to do really well for the team – but there’s pressure because I played at such a high level so everyone expects me to score a couple of goals every game and be amazing. But it feels like a normal dressing room. I’ve known Jamie, Paul and Kevin Foley [who played for Wolves in the Premier League] for years so that gelling was automatic. Same with the other lads. It doesn’t matter who is full-time or who has jobs. I think some of them work on building sites but on the pitch we’re a team. If you’re lazy they’ll give you a bollocking. I wouldn’t expect any less. We’re all equal.
“My family are just happy I’m playing football in this country. And everything is great with my dad now. Everything between us is how it should be between a father and a son. He’s in great nick and a labourer now after he turned his life around in Nottingham.”
Pennant shows me one of his many tattoos. He reads the words inked into his right arm: “Somewhere between faith and luck lies destiny.”
Destiny for Pennant, right now, appears to be in Billericay. “Yeah,” he says with a wry smile. “But I have no regrets coming here. I’m 34, not 24. Not many players play at the highest level all their life. So this is just another avenue of my football life. I’ve had so many ups and downs but this is a new path.”
The day after Oakland Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch sat out the national anthem, his former team-mate Michael Bennett has followed his lead.
The Seattle Seahawks defensive end, who is known for his strong views, sat with a towel draped over his head during the anthem before Sunday’s game against the Los Chargers. Bennett said he plans to continue the protest for the rest of the season, and his stance was influenced by the far-right violence in Charlottesville over the weekend. Colin Kaepernick attracted attention when he chose to kneel for the anthem last season as a protest at racial injustice in the United States.
.@Seahawks Michael Bennett during anthem pic.twitter.com/RVbpZhyaAZ
“The last week, with everything that’s been going on in the last couple months—especially after the last couple days seeing everything in [Charlottesville] Virginia ... [I] just wanted to be able to continue to use my platform to be able to speak on injustice,” Bennett said after Sunday’s game.
Kaepernick was accused by some of disrespecting the military when he refused to stand, and Bennett emphasized he respected the armed forces. 
“First of all, I want to make sure that people understand I love the military. My father was in the military. I love hot dogs, like any other American. I love football like any other American,” he said. “But I don’t love segregation. I don’t love riots. I don’t love oppression. I don’t love gender slander. And I just want to see people have equality that they deserve.”
Bennett and Lynch are likely to be joined by others players. Bleacher Report’s Mike Freeman  says he has spoken to five other players who plan to protest this season after the Charlottesville violence, and Donald Trump’s failure to condemn far-right protestors. The trouble in Charlottesville, during which a woman was killed after a car was driven into anti-racism protesters, drew criticism from a number of athletes. The Philadelphia Eagles defensive end, Chris Long, called the far-right protestors “man babies with torches”.
Bennett has spoken out about political issues in the past. Kaepernick has yet to find a new team following his season of protest, and Bennett says the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback’s story highlights the racial divide in the NFL. “Obviously, there’s the elephant in the room why Kaepernick isn’t signed, and most people know why,” Bennett said in June. “I’ve said this several times, and I’m not afraid to say it: I think race and politics in sports is something people don’t want to hear about, nor do people want to be a part of.”
Almost 70% of NFL players are black but a white player is yet to join the anthem protest. Bennett says that he has been writing a book, titled Things That Make White People Uncomfortable. “I think the title is just a title to start a conversation so people want to read it,” Bennett said. “The book I’m focusing on is issues that I see that are important in America, and they are my views and opinion.”
Barcelona have announced the signing of Paulinho from Guangzhou Evergrande for €40m (£36m), with the Brazil midfielder set to be unveiled this week.
A statement from Barça on Monday confirmed that deal with the Chinese Super League side has been agreed for the former Tottenham player, with Ernesto Valverde’s side paying his release clause in full. The 29-year-old, who left White Hart Lane in 2015 for just €14m having played 45 Premier League games for Spurs, will be presented at the Camp Nou on Thursday.
His move, which is a record fee received by a Chinese club, had earlier been confirmed by Evergrande’s coach Luiz Felipe Scolari.
“Losing Paulinho is a loss for Evergrande, but it is a good thing for Chinese football,” he said. “It proves that the world’s leading clubs are paying attention to the Chinese Super League.”
The former Brazil forward Rivaldo, who played more than 150 games for Barcelona between 1997 and 2002, also expressed his pleasure that his compatriot will follow in his footsteps.
“Welcome to Barcelona and I wish you lots of luck in this new chapter. Without doubt, this has been the best choice,” he wrote on Twitter.
Bem vindo ao @fcbarcelona , desejo muita sorte nessa sua nova etapa, com certeza você fez a melhor escolha @paulinhop8. Deus te abençoe pic.twitter.com/0yRuwkw7IK
Meanwhile, Borussia Dortmund’s chief executive Hans-Joachim Watzke has warned Barcelona that time is running out in their bid to sign Ousmane Dembélé. Dortmund rejected a bid of €100m last week for the France forward, who was then suspended by the club after failing to turn up for training on Thursday.
After Saturday’s German Cup victory against FC Rielasingen-Arlen , sporting director Michael Zorc confirmed that suspension would remain in place until further notice, with Watzke telling German magazine Kicker on Monday that the 20-year-old could also miss the opening Bundesliga matches against Wolfsburg on Saturday and Hertha Berlin on 26 August – five days before the transfer window shuts. “The time horizon is enough for two games,” he said.
It is understood that Dembélé has not spoken to any Dortmund officials since attending the club’s pre-season photoshoot on Wednesday – a stance that has infuriated Watzke. He has been offered a lucrative new contract extension in a bid to keep him at the club he joined last summer from Rennes but remains determined to move to La Liga, with Barcelona weighing up whether to return with an improved bid.
With Rennes due up to 25% from any fee after inserting a sell-on clause, Dortmund have demanded up to €150m for a player they signed for a 10th of that price just 12 months ago. They are believed to be willing to resist any offers which do not meet their asking price, with Dembélé facing a potential further suspension if he fails to show up for training this week.
The County Championship is back – was back – and is now gone again until the end of the month, like a satellite briefly returning to Earth’s orbit before being slingshot back into outer space (a fate, one can’t help feeling, some administrators would invite for the grand old competition). Not down Essex way though, as the southern softies went into the heartland of tough northern cricket and blew Yorkshire into the North Sea at Scarborough inside two days. With the honourable exceptions of Adam Lyth (last man out in the first innings) and Jack Leaning (last man out in the second), the home side had no answer to Mohammad Amir and Jamie Porter, whose combined figures of 17-157 will win 99.94% of matches. Amir’s class is obvious – what a signing he is – and Porter’s 40 wickets at 22 this season must surely earn him an overseas tour this winter. Essex lead by 46 points with five matches to play.
The midsummer interregnum in four-day cricket allowed for some soul searching at Edgbaston and changes in personnel. For the team at the foot of Division One, this round of matches had to produce a win and it did, a late middle-order rally in the third innings proving the difference in a low scoring contest with Middlesex, whose title defence limps on. England man Chris Woakes was the catalyst, arriving at the crease with half the second innings wickets gone and the lead just 104. His half century, plus 71 from new face, Matthew Lamb and an unbeaten 62 from the admirable Keith Barker, set a fourth innings target of over 300 which proved far too much for the champions’ depleted batting. Warwickshire are still 31 points off safety, but have hope, though they will likely lose Woakes to England for the run-in.
Nottinghamshire’s lead in Division Two is almost as forbidding as Essex’s in Division One, as they underlined their superiority, dismantling Derbyshire by an innings. Alex Hales, who must feel like a pro playing league cricket at the moment such is his contempt for the bowling, made a run a ball 218, Brett Hutton bagged five wickets in each innings and Chris Read set a new record for a Nottinghamshire wicketkeeper with his 968th first-class dismissal in a one-sided affair. The question is not whether Notts will be promoted in 2017, but how they were ever relegated in 2016.
Away went the slips and in came the scoops, as the T20 Blast barged back into the schedule with the penultimate week of group stage matches in a competition that seems to have been going on for months already. Notts (them again) became the first club to qualify from the North Group after the captain, Dan Christian, inspired his team with bat and ball. Christian isn’t quite the same player as his fellow countryman (and ex-Nottinghamshire player), David Hussey, but he does support an old conjecture of mine – that T20 sides will morph into 10 David Husseys and a batsman-wicketkeeper. Useful though such 130 strike rate biffers/60mph – 80mph bowlers/gun fielders are in the format, whether fans will tire of watching eight or more in every team day after day is a moot point.
That cynicism aside, Glamorgan qualified from the South Group in a thriller at Taunton with a key contribution from a genuine quick. After something of an old school innings in which Glamorgan constructed a platform before a pushing on to a competitive total (127-1 after 14.3 becoming 183-6 after 20), Somerset went into the last three overs needing a highly gettable 22 with experienced old pros, Johann Myburgh and Jim Allenby both well set. Cue South African speedster, Marchant de Lange (still only 26!), who dismissed both Somerset men – and 20 off two overs with new batsmen at the crease proved too much.
Though it grieves a Lanky fan to write it, the T20 highlight of the week was a spectacular catch by Yorkshire’s Jack Leaning to dismiss Lancashire’s Arron Lilley, as white beat red in the Roses match. Not bad in perfect fielding conditions, but all the more laudable on a wet outfield that would have seen play abandoned in seasons past. It’s always been my view that, unless it’s raining or there is standing water on the field, T20 cricket should be played, the players trusted to look after their own welfare underfoot. Umpires and players seem to be coming round to that, and about time too.
As juicy narratives go, Sigi Schmid’s return to the LA Galaxy could have been scripted 20 or miles or so due north from the StubHub Center, up in the Hollywood Hills.
When Schmid took over from deposed first-year coach Curt Onalfo late last month, the opportunity offered the 64-year-old redemption on multiple levels.
Schmid still hasn’t totally gotten over the unhappy ending to his first spell in charge of his hometown club, when the Galaxy let him go midway through the 2005 season despite the team being in first place.
He was also consumed by the what-ifs of his firing by the Sounders last July. His departure so neatly overlapped with the arrival of transformative playmaker Nicolas Lodeiro that he was still waiting for his ride away from the team facility when the player showed up to finalize his transfer.
Was the coaching change the spark that inspired Seattle’s dramatic surge to their first MLS Cup title, or was it the addition of Lodeiro and the rehabilitation of influential defender Roman Torres from injury? It was impossible to know for sure, and that uncertainty ate at Schmid.
Taking over a Galaxy team in a similarly perilous position to where Seattle stood at this point last year offered Schmid a chance to simulate the alternate universe in which the Sounders had stuck with him. It also provided the opportunity for the winningest coach in MLS history to go out on his own terms.
This is where the story breaks from the Hollywood screenplay, serving instead as a reminder that reality is rarely as tidy as it is in the movies.
Los Angeles are 0-2-1 since Schmid took over and are now nine points out of the playoff places with only 11 games left to bridge the gap. Saturday night brought another body blow, as visiting New York City FC left the nationally televised match-up as 2-0 winners.
LA are now a staggeringly poor 1-7-4 at home this season. The sight of a hobbled Jermaine Jones getting crossed up onto the seat of his pants by NYC FC’s Jonathan Lewis in the lead-up to the rookie’s wonder-strike felt like a convenient few-second summary of much that currently ails a team lacking in collective identity.
The book hasn’t been closed completely, of course. Following a midweek trip to Columbus, another of Schmid’s former clubs, LA host a pair of crucial, winnable games against rival San Jose and fellow struggler Colorado. Schmid’s contract runs through 2018, and given the mess he inherited, he might be given the time to lead a turnaround even if the Galaxy fail to qualify for this postseason.
Yet it is also increasingly apparent that this Galaxy team has some serious flaws, and that the coach has already burned through some valuable time trying to find solutions.
Throughout his year-long exile from the game, Schmid clung to the idea that he might earn one last chance with which to burnish his legacy. He could have moved on in an ambassadorial role, or taken a front-office job someplace that valued his expertise but was unwilling to take the risk of handing him a sideline gig. Instead, he stubbornly stood pat.
“If I had finished up this season with the Sounders and we came in and said, ‘Look, maybe it’s time to move on,’ I probably would have said, ‘You know what, I’m probably ready to be a GM,’” Schmid told me last fall, a few months after the Sounders cut him loose. “But now, with it ending the way it did, I’m really not ready to give it up.
“When you talk to all good players, as soon as they step on the field, even though they’ve proven it before, they want to prove it again. For me as a coach, it’s the same thing when you have something like that happen. The drive now is really strong to prove that the last half-year in Seattle is not who Sigi Schmid is as a coach. I don’t want my coaching career to end on a losing season. I haven’t had many losing seasons in my 30-some years as a coach.”
With the Galaxy currently 6-12-5 and with fewer than a dozen games to go, Schmid has some serious work to do if he is to avoid a similar fate in 2017.
The veteran coach was adamant that all he wanted was one more chance to prove his worth, and no matter how that went, that he would accept the chips as they fell. With a disjointed roster and the playoff spots moving ever further away, what could have been the uplifting narrative of the stretch run has instead thus far been a parable about being careful what one wishes for.
-- Tim Howard must have suffered through some unsettling flashbacks to his famous performance against Belgium at the 2014 World Cup during Saturday’s scoreless draw against FC Dallas.
FCD peppered the Rapids goal with 28 shots, eight of which were on target and all of which the Colorado ‘keeper was able to bat away. As peeved as Howard often looked at his team-mates for not closing down space, credit is also due to their willingness to put bodies on the line and rack up eight blocked shots.
Dallas are now winless in three – with all three games, ominously, coming against teams not currently in the playoff spots – and suddenly look less than a clear-cut frontrunner in the Western Conference.
-- Seattle’s 1-0 win over Kansas City on Saturday afternoon wasn’t quite the statement victory it might have appeared. Sporting entered the weekend in first place in the West, sure, but they were coming off a 120-minute war of Open Cup attrition versus San Jose, and coach Peter Vermes opted to rest a number of key starters.
Still, it was an encouraging performance by the Sounders. This felt like a heat-check game for a team that is now unbeaten in eight.
Seattle have struggled to break down disciplined back lines, and SKC’s is the stingiest in the league. Clint Dempsey and Nicolas Lodeiro seem to have reached a tenuous understanding in the attack, and if Jordan Morris can provide the consistent threat on the wing he did on Saturday, the Sounders will have a real go at defending their MLS Cup title.
–– Disrespectful skill move of the week: Alberth Elis, Houston Dynamo.
Nutmeg? Check. Pinpoint cross that led to the game-clinching goal? Check. Defender so demoralized that he didn’t track back as much as he shuffled dazedly through a fog of his own humiliation? Oh yeah.
Houston now lead the West, followed by Seattle, Kansas City and Dallas.
- Goal of the week: Justin Morrow, Toronto FC.
TFC were styling on Portland at this point, up 2-0 in the 75th minute and looking for more, and build-up was a blur of flicks and overlapping runs. Sebastian Giovinco dummied over a pass to free up space for Victor Vasquez, who back-heeled the ball for Jozy Altidore, who played another give-and-go with Giovinco. The final ball was lucky, honestly, a deflection taking it away from Altidore, who would have been offside, and into Morrow’s path for a snap finish.
It was far from the most spectacular strike of the weekend – honorable mention to Lewis – but as team goals go, there will be few with more panache all season.
TFC had slumped a bit prior to the Portland match, but will now head into next Saturday’s showdown with Chicago with a cushion atop the Supporters’ Shield standings.
“He stays,” tweeted Gerard Piqué, smiling, an arm around Neymar. The player was “200% staying” claimed Barcelona. La Liga took the denial a step further by turning away PSG’s lawyers, €222m cheque in hand, before refusing to promptly deliver Neymar’s international clearance certificate, meaning the world’s most expensive player was forced to watch the first Paris Saint-Germain game from the Parc des Princes stands. Despite the efforts of his former team-mates, club and league, Neymar is a PSG player. The fee and fanfare aside, the attitude in Spain more than anything illustrates the seismic shift in European football that the Brazilian’s gargantuan transfer represents, a watershed moment for Ligue 1. This weekend, in sleepy Guingamp, Neymar finally made his French football debut.
In the last decade a clear European footballing aristocracy has developed. A combination of often overwhelming wealth and the allure and grandeur of the continent’s great clubs has made European football’s summit close to impenetrable for other clubs. The world’s best players have exclusively populated this small clique of teams in the last 10 to 15 years and even the Qatar Sports Investments billions behind PSG have not been able to break the hegemony with limited to little success in the Champions League. The majority of their marquee signings have come from Serie A’s top sides, not the impregnable fortress of La Liga, the Premier League or Bundesliga’s elite.
Considering their performances, this has not been surprising for PSG. For much of the modern era, French domestic football has not been taken as seriously as the rest of the traditional top five leagues – and with good reason. French teams have continually underachieved and limply exited European competitions and no side is more prone to a continental collapse than PSG. The Paris club are the self-anointed breakers of that established order with the aim of dragging Ligue 1 back to the forefront of Europe’s footballing consciousness. Up until now, they have failed.
The Neymar inspired 6-1 drubbing at the Camp Nou last season amounted to utter humiliation and thoroughly eradicated any hope engendered by the 4-0 first-leg win, while the drab exit from the Champions League at Manchester City a year earlier surpassed the Barcelona whirlwind in frustration and disappointment. The Champions League last eight is all QSI’s quasi-galáctico, money-throwing policy has been able to produce. However, French football beyond QSI and PSG has quietly been gathering momentum for some time and Neymar’s arrival is a sign of that burgeoning development and a pivotal moment for the league.
Guingamp’s Stade de Roudourou had been sold out for more than a week, the significance and potential spectacle of Neymar’s debut not lost on the Breton locals. This game was more than the routine Sunday evening Ligue 1 fare but Neymar doesn’t seem to feel pressure or the weight of expectation, his boyish grin has been ever-present since his arrival and remained in place throughout Sunday night. Although the goalless first half was a frustrating one, Neymar’s supreme quality was routinely evident, his first touch was close to being a sublime whipped assist for Ángel Di María. But as a dogged Guingamp probed, PSG took charge. An incisive turn and run from the new man created their first, the ball eventually ricocheting into the path of the Guingamp full-back Jordan Ikoko, who inexplicably slotted past his own keeper. A delightfully shaped Neymar through ball set Edinson Cavani free to make it two before roles were reversed for Neymar to tap home with three minutes to play. As PSG coasted to three points and Neymar enjoyed an excellent debut, the reasons behind Neymar’s arrival remain the central story for Ligue 1 going forward.
Despite Neymar’s diplomatic tone at his unveiling, a key factor in his reasoning behind his move to Paris, money and the motivations of his father and entourage aside, is, with little doubt, winning the Ballon D’Or. An achievement that would likely be beyond his reach at Barcelona while Lionel Messi remains “pope of the town”, as a member of the player’s team colourfully explained to RMC radio. Neymar needs his own side to be built around him. Whatever the financial incentive, crucially for French football, the fact that Neymar sees PSG – and by extension Ligue 1 – as the place to realise this dream underlines the strides that French domestic football has made in the last year and is at least partly down to the exciting, youthful and competitive division that has developed over the last 18 months.
Granted, little more than a year ago, PSG won the title by an absurd 31 points but last season they were ambushed. Monaco were effervescent in usurping PSG and stealing their Ligue 1 crown – Leonardo Jardim’s side embarrassing their rivals further in making the Champions League semi-final. Lyon managed to partially leave behind their own flakey displays on the European stage to reach a Europa League semi-final while Nice staged a strong challenge of their own, sitting top at Christmas and taking four points from PSG over the campaign.
Marseille have lured Adil Rami, Dimitri Payet, Patrice Evra and Luiz Gustavo to Ligue 1 through the investment of LA Dodgers owner Frank McCourt while Lille and Nantes have pulled off sizeable coups in naming Marcelo Bielsa and Claudio Ranieri as their respective managers. Lille’s new Spanish-born owner, Gérard Lopez, has bankrolled their €50m outlay this summer while Lucien Favre’s Nice and an exciting Bordeaux side have enjoyed foreign investment of their own. Ligue 1 is increasingly becoming an attractive proposition for investors and players alike, to such an extent that others are being left behind. Ligue 1’s record champions, St Étienne, a regular Champions League chaser in recent campaigns, although proud to be French owned, have admitted they can no longer keep pace with the top six financially.
With their peers catching and even surpassing them, PSG desperately needed to hit refresh. Neymar’s arrival, with his prime before him, is arguably the biggest moment in the club’s history, certainly since QSI’s arrival, and represents a victory on a number of levels. Primarily, it is the first meaningful sign that Unai Emery’s side are capable of competing with the established European aristocracy on player recruitment, tempting away a prize asset from one of their rivals against their wishes. A fact reinforced by the rebuffing of Barcelona’s pursuit of PSG talisman, Marco Verratti.
Moreover, the deal takes PSG’s galáctico ethos to another level. Signing one of the world’s top five players has long been an objective, something they have not come close to achieving before. While crucially, it is difficult to forget among the fanfare, this significantly strengthens Emery’s hand in the Champions League, a competition that has become a club obsession and where ultimately they will be judged by others and themselves.
The reluctance of the Spanish authorities to accept the move and their apparent disbelief at the series of events that led to one of La Liga’s biggest draws leaving Spain, is a sign that, for the first time in close to two decades, an outsider – albeit an obscenely rich outsider – may start to truly break European football’s established order. It remains to be seen whether Neymar alone will be able to remedy their big-game emotional frailty but despite the sums involved, this is a move that says as much about the increasing relevance of Ligue 1 as it does about QSI’s bottomless pockets. Perhaps La Liga, Barcelona and Pique should be reminded of that This summer, it was Neymar who called PSG.
Results: Nice 1-2 Troyes, Rennes 1-2 Lyon, Nantes 0-1 Marseille, Amiens 0-2 Angers, Bordeaux 2-0 Metz, Caen 0-1 St Étienne, Toulouse 1-0 Montpellier, Strasbourg 3-0 Lille, Dijon 1-4 Monaco, Guingamp 0-3 PSG.
League football returned to Ewood Park as if it had never been away. But Blackburn Rovers, Premier League champions of 1995, found themselves in the unusual surroundings of League One on Saturday, losing 3-1 to Doncaster Rovers, who came in by the other door. After two degrees of separation the only familiarity for Blackburn was defeat.
Three months ago, in their last five games, at least they were mixing it with Nottingham Forest, Wolves and Aston Villa, beating two and drawing with Wolves in a vain attempt to avoid the drop. Now they continue their struggles in the company of Rochdale and Northampton. It is a sad descent. As the old boys of Eton and Harrow were discussing in the late 1870s whether to have hacking, Blackburn was shaping as the first northern centre to upset that dominance, with Rovers winning the FA Cup from 1884-86 and becoming founder members of the League. Hacking now is as international as the game itself but Blackburn are not keeping up.
Nor on this showing are they looking up. Since Venky’s bought them in 2010, when the club finished 10th in the Premier League, the heady days of Jack Walker’s indulgence seem ancient history in this headless era of the Indian chicken firm. The last accounts showed the club’s debts at £106m and investment in players has declined. Tony Mowbray is their seventh manager in seven years. In 15 games he lifted them from 23rd to 22nd. On Saturday, at pitchside or afterwards, he looked unlikely to get a balloon to fly.
“It was disappointing, frustrating and self-inflicted,” he said. “We’ve lost 12 players and got nine new. I’m still excited by what we have but it’s about bringing it all together.” The first half was woefully unadventurous from both sides or, as Doncaster’s Darren Ferguson said: “There was not much happening in the boxes.” The convenient option of passing back was preferred. It was reported on Saturday that seven contaminated eggs, not from India, could safely be eaten in 24 hours. Everyone might have tried it.
Half-time relieved the constipation. On the restart Blackburn’s Elliott Ward thought twice about passing back and stubbed John Marquis through to beat David Raya. Mowbray shortly made a double substitution, pulling off Peter Whittingham, obtained free from Cardiff after almost 500 games and 100 goals, and sending on Bradley Dack, from Gillingham, and Dominic Samuel, from Reading. Dack fizzed with purpose but soon another midfield lapse sent James Coppinger, Doncaster’s captain, similarly clear on goal. Charlie Mulgrew caught the 36-year-old but only to foul him and Coppinger scored the penalty. Through all the negativity he alone had shown consistent touch and vision.
Mowbray’s third substitution, Ben Gladwin from QPR, brought a fine save from Ian Lawlor before Blackburn’s final screw-up when Raya, 10 yards outside his area, tried to head the ball to Ward and instead presented an open goal to Alfie May. Samuel’s even later close-range header gave Ferguson the chance to show he is his father’s son and bemoan the loss of a clean sheet. It was not snide of him to praise his team for their concentration on and off the ball.
Twenty seasons ago they fell out of the League and almost of existence when their majority shareholder, Ken Richardson, denied a new stadium by the council, had the old Belle Vue ground torched in the hope of paying off his debts with insurance money. Rovers finished 15 points short of safety with a goal difference of minus 83 and did a year longer in the Conference than he did in jail. Ferguson’s men hardly unleashed fire and fury but with 44 games to go they are in the play-off zone.
Blackburn are pointless and close to listless. “These days come along,” said Mowbray. “You have to put them behind you.” The trouble is there may be more ahead of them. Saturday’s crowd was less than last season’s average of 12,668, which in turn was half that of 1994-95. For the vital last home game in April, against Aston Villa, it was 21,884. The fans are still there and Mowbray said: “I know their expectations. We let them down.” Simply they had too little to cheer and seemed too sad to boo. Maybe the League Cup visit of Burnley will get them and the manager going.
From the moment the draw for the Women’s World Cup was made, it was a match the tournament organisers would have been dreading. Hong Kong, ranked 23rd in the world, facing the might of New Zealand, just four days after taking on the 2014 beaten finalists, Canada.
It took 52 seconds for the dam to burst and 79 minutes later the Black Ferns, champions in four previous Women’s World Cups, had helped themselves to 19 tries in a 121-0 victory – Portia Woodman contributing eight of them. We were promised a record-breaking World Cup but this is unlikely to be what the organisers had in mind.
Thrashings like this – as oddly captivating as they can be – do women’s rugby few favours. They are by no means limited to the women’s game, and it must be remembered that Japan, victors in the most memorable men’s World Cup match in history in 2015, conceded 145 points to New Zealand in 1995. But such a mismatch does little to enhance the claim that this is the most competitive Women’s World Cup to date and, considering it took place in Dublin, it brings to mind the old joke that a good result for Irish swimming was where no one drowned – Hong Kong were treading water throughout.
Their heads did not drop, the scrum-half Jessica Ho made a wonderful try-saving tackle on Woodman and we can only hope that they will be better for the experience but the stark reality is that a competition fighting for column inches needs precisely that, competition, and while there have been truckloads of tries in Dublin, three teams have scored the majority of them.
Part of the problem is the skill level of the elite sides such as New Zealand and if that sounds contradictory it is not the only one that exists within women’s rugby. Woodman is a star in the making – a relative novice at the 15-a-side game having scored 142 tries in two seasons on the sevens circuit – she has a remarkable turn of pace and deft footwork to match. England’s Danielle Waterman is another back enjoying a superb campaign and there can be no doubting that the speed and skill demonstrated by the very best teams is at an unrecognisable level to even the previous World Cup three years ago.
Goal-kicking remains an area where there is room for improvement but that can perhaps be explained by the fact that the heightened skill levels are at least in part down to the heavy investment in sevens – which now has the carrot of an Olympic medal every four years. It remains to be seen, however, if XVs and sevens can co-exist without one bowing to the other.
After this tournament, Woodman will no doubt return to sevens and considering XVs is in desperate need of some global household names, it is a considerable blow indeed. England’s fourth-placed finish at the Six Nations directly after the 2014 World Cup is evidence of what happens when sevens is prioritised and it can only be considered as a missed opportunity by the RFU to boost the profile of the women’s game. Furthermore, the plight of women’s Test cricket must act as a constant warning with regards to XVs.
All the evidence suggests that sevens is the future of the women’s game, however. World Cups have been limited to 12 teams since 2006 and while there is commendable investment by World Rugby in raising participation levels, sevens is the priority. It is a shame because there is a wealth of talent in Dublin and the knockout stages will be compelling viewing. While it must be acknowledged that the pool stages have been set up for grandstand finishes on Thursday, with Ireland against France and New Zealand taking on Canada, England’s anti-climactic 10-try victories against Spain and Italy highlight how this is a slow-burning competition.
There remains hope that it truly catches alight – there is every chance it will do when it moves to Belfast’s Kingspan Stadium for the last four – but it is hard not to wonder if a tournament with fewer teams may have made more sense. Two pools of eight would have all but guaranteed closer contests in the early matchdays and avoided a scenario where teams are playing five matches in such a short space of time – if the finalists are not at their best because fatigue has set in it will be genuinely disappointing.
A closed shop is not being suggested here – just look at Japan’s development in the men’s game as a reason why that must not be allowed to happen – but would Hong Kong not have been better off taking part in a preliminary competition against teams who will not have scored more than 50 points against them by half-time? It may sound regressive but too much expansion has been rugby union’s achilles heel in recent years. The viewing figures for this World Cup so far have been hugely positive but it pays to remember that shooting fish in a barrel is not a great spectator sport.
A 2-1 shot for Ripon’s opener, Bungee Jump (2.00) is a far less risky proposition than her name would suggest. Apart from being well-named (her sire is Canford Cliffs), this two year-old ran well on her debut on Newcastle’s all-weather surface at the end of July. It was a well-contested novice stakes and Bungee Jump was an unfancied 25-1 shot, yet she finished fourth, a length behind the winner.
The first two home that day, Aussie Wind and Ibn Al Emarat, have run against each other since, at Chelmsford, finishing first and second once more, to boost the Newcastle form. Further in the selection’s favour is that, while Connor Beasley rode Bungee Jump at Newcastle, today Kevin Stott takes over on the Kevin Ryan-trained filly.
It is certainly worth noting Stott’s significant success on two-year-olds on turf in the last five years: 29 wins from 148 rides (a win rate of 20% and a profit to a £1 stake of £49.55). This season, Stott has ridden seven from 31 in the same category (23% and a £40.23 profit).
At Ayr, another well-named – and perhaps aptly-named – horse is So It’s War (3.15). His dam is Impulsive Decision. The Keith Dalgleish-trained six-year-old looks worthy of each-way support after being dropped a couple of pounds in the weights. Too much rain at the Scottish track could count against the gelding, however.
Ayr1.45 Frolic 2.15 Magic Journey 2.45 Pipe Dreamer 3.15 So It’s War 3.45 Benjamin Thomas 4.15 Lady Joanna Vassa 4.45 Weekend Offender 5.15 Clarabel
Ripon2.00 Bungee Jump (nap) 2.30 Voicemail 3.00 Stormin Tom 3.30 La Casa Tarifa 4.00 Theglasgowwarrior 4.30 Billy Bond
Wolverhampton5.20 Indicia 5.50 Funkadelic 6.20 Zapateado 6.50 African Beat 7.20 Commodity 7.50 Flourishing 8.20 Circulate
Windsor5.40 Double Spin 6.10 Immortal Romance 6.40 Medalla De Oro 7.10 Toulson (nb) 7.40 Codicil 8.10 Golden Easter
The number of disgruntled footballers pining for affection elsewhere has increased by one, with Lazio striker Keita Baldé having chucked his toys out of the pram after being left out of the Lazio team that saw off Juventus in last night’s Suppercoppa Italiana. Born in Spain and a graduate of Barcelona’s La Masia academy, Baldé plays his international football for Senegal. The 22-year-old striker was not even numbered among Simone Inzaghi’s 12 substitutes for an epic match won 3-2 by Lazio courtesy of Alessandro Murgia’s late winner.
Reports in England suggest Tottenham Hotspur may move for Baldé, who has just one year left on his contract and is refusing to ink a new deal. Juventus are also understood to be interested in the player, who scored 18 goals in 34 Serie A appearances last season, with eight of those coming in a late flurry in Lazio’s final six matches of the campaign.
Having lost the opening match of their Premier League title defence to Burnley on Saturday, Chelsea are ready to move for the similarly unsettled Virgil van Dijk, who missed Southampton’s first game of the season with “a virus”. Double VD (his nickname, not the name of his illness) has been agitating for a move all summer, but his protracted on-again off-again move to Liverpool could be torpedoed by the champions if Antonio Conte gets his way. The Mirror reports that Chelsea are preparing a formal offer for the Dutch defender and are ready to spend £50m to acquire his services. Liverpool and Manchester City are on red and blue alert respectively.
Chelsea are also reported to be sniffing around long-time Manchester United target Ivan Perisic, although reports in yesterday’s papers suggested José Mourinho is ready to make a last-ditch effort to bring the Inter winger to Old Trafford. Eager to throw a spanner in the works of both Premier League clubs, Perisic’s current manager, Luciano Spalletti, says the winger does not want to go anywhere. “He is determined to remain,” said Spalletti. “He has spoken as a footballer who wants to do well based on his professionalism.”
With Philippe Coutinho looking increasingly likely to leave Liverpool for Barcelona, Jürgen Klopp is eyeing the Napoli playmaker Lorenzo Insigne as a potential replacement. Napoli have insisted the 26-year-old from Frattamaggiore is not for sale and if Liverpool are to lure Insigne away from his hometown club, they will need to bid well over £50m for his services. The Schalke midfielder Max Meyer is being touted as another potential replacement for Coutinho, but Liverpool will have to fight off interest from Bayern Munich and Tottenham Hotspur if they are to secure the 21-year-old’s scrawl.
The Paris Saint-Germain winger Jesé Rodriguez has rejected a loan move to Florence, having decided the comparatively picturesque cityscape of Stoke is more to his liking. The former Real Madrid man had provisionally agreed a two-year deal with Fiorentina, but has had his head turned by a more lucrative offer from the Potters.
Jack Wilshere could be off to Newcastle United, although Crystal Palace, West Ham, Bournemouth and assorted Serie A sides are also believed to be scrambling to get the Arsenal midfielder on board. Meanwhile at The Hawthorns, Nacer Chadli is wanted by Swansea City, who will stump up around double the £13m West Brom paid for the winger a year ago to replace the Everton-bound Gylfi Sigurdsson. “It’s been publicised that Swansea are interested in Nacer – if they are, we’ll deal with Swansea,” said West Brom manager Tony Pulis. “Let’s just get our players in first. I’m excited at the opportunity of trying to get some of these players in. We’ve got targets, we’ll get them in the next two weeks, and we need to.”
And finally, Manchester United will bid for Sergi Roberto if the midfielder agitates for a move from Camp Nou and are also close to wrapping up the signing of the teenage striker Bruno Amorim from Portuguese side Oliveirense.
Sir Mo Farah wants to be known as “Mohamed” when he starts the next chapter of his career.
The 34-year-old claimed a silver medal in his last track championship race in London, finishing behind Ethiopia’s Muktar Edris in the 5,000 metres on Saturday night.
Farah is now switching his focus to road racing and wants it to be a fresh start, with the four-time world champion ditching “Mo” to become known as “Mohamed”.
He said: “My road name is Mohamed. I just feel like Mo is done. I need to forget about what I’ve achieved and what I’ve done.”
The decision to rebrand follows a stormy end to his glittering track racing career in which he accused sections of the media of trying to “destroy” his achievements on the track with unfounded allegations against his coach Alberto Salazar and insinuations about how he attained his success.
“History doesn’t lie,” Farah told his critics. “What I achieved over the years, people are proud of me. You can write what you like. The fact is I’ve achieved what I have from hard work and dedication. Putting my balls on the line, year after year and delivering for my country.
“It’s like a broken record, repeating myself,” he said. “If I’ve crossed the line, if Alberto’s crossed the line, why bring it up year after year, making it into headlines? I’ve achieved what I have achieved – you’re trying to destroy it.”
So, why was it that Chelsea decided they could afford to let Nemanja Matic join Manchester United and willingly pass over one of the more brilliantly effective midfield players of the modern game to a major rival? When that question was posed to José Mourinho after Manchester United’s biggest league win since he took over as manager he made it sound as if he was slightly bewildered, too. “It depends on what is happening, or what was happening, behind doors and we don’t know,” he said. “The only thing I know is that, with Chelsea’s money, I brought him to Stamford Bridge because I thought he was a player with special qualities and ever since I left I always thought he could be a perfect player for us.” That still doesn’t answer the question about why Chelsea have apparently given Mourinho the final piece in his jigsaw when it comes to assembling a team capable of winning the Premier League. We never get a satisfactory answer and, in the meantime, Matic has quickly shown it might be a grave error on Chelsea’s part. United were struggling to break down West Ham until Matic’s interception sparked the breakaway that led to Romelu Lukaka’s first goal.
The excellence of Lukaku and Matic will attract most attention, but equally crucial was what went on around them. Because Mourinho omitted Ander Herrera he could pick an extra attacker, and whether that was Juan Mata, Henrikh Mkhitaryan or Marcus Rashford, the trident roaming behind Lukaku offered craft, pace, movement and numbers. Last season, though United’s finishing was useless, they also failed to create enough chances, get enough men into dangerous areas, and exploit the qualities of their most talented players. Yesterday, though, they looked menacing throughout and eventually swamped an admittedly poor West Ham; the question now is whether Mourinho will let his team go against better opposition. Daniel Taylor and Daniel Harris
It isn’t hard to see why Chelsea looked half the team they were last year. From the 13th minute, five of last season’s first-choice outfield 10 were absent. Gary Cahill, Victor Moses, Nemanja Matic, Eden Hazard and Diego Costa were all missing, while in the absence of N’Golo Kanté there was a distinct lack of scurrying … Hang on. In fact a review of the stats reveals Kanté was actually playing, one of Chelsea’s few real leaders from last season to last 90 minutes. Kanté was not to blame for defeat. But he was a bit slack in his covering for two of Burnley’s goals. And the feeling remains he needs the right partner to flourish. Much will hang on how quickly the partnership with Tiémoué Bakayoko gels. As it is Kanté looked quite a long way from a man you’d pick out as the reigning double player of the year. Barney Ronay
Plenty have had their say on Liverpool’s defensive shortcomings following their 3-3 draw with Watford but perhaps the most telling came from the man who dealt the late blow to Jürgen Klopp’s side. “Yes we knew [that Liverpool were poor at set pieces], said Miguel Britos. “Maybe it is their weak point.” Of that there is no doubt – the Merseysiders have conceded 27 Premier League goals from set pieces since Klopp took charge in 2015, with only Crystal Palace and Watford themselves letting in more. Some claim Liverpool need better defenders while others, such as Jamie Carragher, say the fault lies with how the existing players line up, especially at corners. Whatever the case, Britos’s comments prove opposition teams are fully aware of Liverpool’s achilles heel, with Watford exploiting it twice. Klopp insists work on the training ground can improve the situation, but that is what Brendan Rodgers also said when he was in charge of a side regularly undone at set-pieces. Little has changed and for all their great attacking play there is simply no chance of Liverpool competing for the title while they remain so shoddy at the back. Sachin Nakrani
Ronald Koeman seemed almost as pleased with Wayne Rooney killing a game as winning it against Stoke City on Saturday. The 31-year-old was not signed to replace Romelu Lukaku’s goals at Everton – although he made a fine start with an outstanding header against Mark Hughes’s team – but for the experience and intelligence that was also on display in his first Premier League start for the club for 13 years. Rooney’s distribution caught the eye throughout, particularly his perfectly weighted passes into Dominic Calvert-Lewin, but Koeman was equally impressed with how the forward disrupted Stoke’s pressure late on. The Everton manager said: “When the team needs patience, when the team needs a foul, he is going down instead of Idrissa Gueye or Tom Davies who try and always stand and win the battle. That is down to the cleverness of the player. It was like the moments in his ball possession – every time the right choice and the right decision. That is quality, that is experience and that was really important.” Andy Hunter
Arsenal might have signed Jamie Vardy last summer. At the Emirates there was a reminder of why they tried so hard; and also why it might have been an interesting, possibly rather difficult fit. Vardy was sensationally good, his constant spiky pressing and the sheer rapaciousness of his straight-line sprints a lesson in what this league tends to reward. But then Vardy is in the perfect team right now for his gifts of speed, expert finishing and constant energy. There is an argument he might have drawn something else out of Arsenal: more direct angles, an even more ruthless counter attack. Really though, this is a case of horses for courses. Vardy remains the embodiment of pure Leicester-ism, blinkers on, a man completely at ease in his current team. If he stays fit and links with Riyad Mahrez plenty of teams will find Leicester’s attack all-but unstoppable at times. BR
At Selhurst Park on Saturday a smart and energetic team whose players knew what they were doing deservedly beat a hotch-potch assembly in which several men looked confused. So now is a good time to remind Crystal Palace fans that David Wagner’s first match as Huddersfield manager was a defeat (3-1 at Sheffield Wednesday in November 2015). Frank De Boer hopes to transform Palace as radically as Wagner has revamped Huddersfield and the Dutchman will need patience. He may also need some new players. He certainly needs the existing ones to learn quickly: the way he gesticulated at them on Saturday to hit long passes to escape Huddersfield’s pressing suggested he found their attempted application of the Ajax philosophy too simplistic: “You have to recognise when you have to play it on the ground and when you don’t,” said the Dutchman, who could do worse than consult Reading’s Jaap Stam for advice on how to get his message across swiftly. Paul Doyle
Pep Guardiola was very relaxed on Saturday. Dressed in chinos and tennis shoes, a broad smile on his face, he looked a man refreshed. A 2-0 win over Brighton, he thought, was about right. The performance wasn’t great, but the match was always under their control. What made him particularly excited was how much running his team did. “They were running like players in League One, or the Conference,” he exclaimed. He was right, City did the hard bit against Brighton. They matched the hosts’ energy and appetite. They will need to do so again when steamrollering opponents is not an option. Kevin De Bruyne concurred. “You know what’s going to happen in the Premier League when you play against these teams,” he said. “If you don’t match it then it’s going to be difficult. If you match it, and with the quality we have, we’ll win these games.” Paul MacInnes
Moussa Sissoko managed to achieve that ‘impressive’ feat of being unpopular with everyone at St James’s Park on Sunday. Most Tottenham fans would rather he was nowhere near their team, and most Newcastle fans made their dissatisfaction with how he left the club a year ago very clear. He wasn’t terrible in his hour on the pitch but he certainly wasn’t good, and spent most of the first-half shuffling around, regarding the ball with uncertainty and suspicion, as if he thought it would explode at any second. While Tottenham were impressive in their victory, his presence showed there’s still work to be done: after the game Mauricio Pochettino said they must recruit more players before the end of August, but Sissoko is a walking example of how spending money doesn’t necessarily solve your problems. Or, alternatively, a walking example of why you shouldn’t leave it until the last minute. Possibly both. Nick Miller
“You have to be set up right at the back,” Tony Pulis said, explaining how it is possible to comfortably take three points while only enjoying around 30% of possession. West Brom evidently were, for though they saw a lot of the ball Bournemouth managed just a single attempt on target, a tame late header from Nathan Ake. It was clear from the moment Albion went ahead that the plan would be to retreat and defend the lead, quite a bold strategy to execute with an hour remaining. Pallid Bournemouth were not the team to break down the Pulis back line. Others might have more success, though the key is surely to score first and force Albion to come up with a plan B. With 6ft 5in Egyptian loanee Ahmed Hegazi adding to Albion’s already considerable threat from set-pieces, only defences as well-drilled as Pulis ones will escape from the Hawthorns with a clean sheet. Paul Wilson
It seems inevitable Swansea City will lose Gylfi Sigurdsson to Everton, as both clubs continue to haggle over a fee in the region of £50m. The next step for the Swans – post-Sigurdsson – will prove the real challenge, though. They have to replace somebody who was directly involved in 22 Premier League goals last season. Paul Clement was coy over talk of a move for the former Swansea midfielder Joe Allen, and realises time is of the essence. “For me it [signing new players] is as soon as possible but the reality is it could go to the final day,” said the Swansea manager. “What we will have to do is [get] one out and potentially two decent ones in but we want the time to do the negotiating. And if it is on the last day it is too late or you pay way over the amount.” Ben Fisher
As the curtain fell on Sunday night on the world championships, and athletics waved a painful goodbye to Usain Bolt, its greatest sprinter and showman, there was a cautious confidence in London among its power brokers. Against expectations, a sport that has been on its knees appeared to have just received the kiss of life.
Sebastian Coe, president of the IAAF, the governing body of athletics, said: “The theatre that has been provided by those full houses has been incredible. We have had more people in 10 days across a world championship than ever before. And I genuinely can’t remember a time when the sport was so competitive and the stories around them so rich.”
It is not just that 700,000 people have come through the gates over the past 10 days, filling out the London Stadium night after night. Or that 9.9 million people tuned in to watch Bolt’s and Mo Farah’s farewell on BBC1 on Saturday night. It was that a combination of spectacular performances and unpredictable races, plus a steady patter of controversy and conspiracy theories has kept the sport on the nation’s front and back pages.
Ed Warner, co-chair of these championships, was even more succinct than Coe. “The London 2012 Olympics gave the nation its self-belief back,” he said. “London 2017 has given athletics its belief back. It has given the sport the opportunity to believe again.”
It was understandable why the sport wants to stare forward rather than look over its shoulder. It was only last year that several senior figures in the IAAF, including its former anti-doping director Gabriel Dollé, were banned for their part in a scheme in which they extorted the Russian marathon runner Liliya Shobukhova of £378,000 to keep results of her positive drug tests secret.
Separately Russia was banned from the 2016 Olympics after a report by Wada’s independent commission found the country was guilty of “state-sponsored doping”, while the low crowds at the Rio Games did nothing to alter the appearance of a sport on the wane.
London, though, was rich with vivid moments. Home eyes naturally gravitated to Mo Farah winning his 10th successive Olympic and world championship medal in the 10,000m on the opening night – and then losing his first 5,000m for four years on the penultimate evening.
Meanwhile Bolt, to stunned silence and venomous boos, not only lost to the sport’s ultimate villain Justin Gatlin – who has failed two doping tests – in the men’s 100m but then pulled up with cramp in a thrilling 4x100m men’s relay.
But quite often other surprising stories gripped the nation too. Who would have thought that the Botswanan Isaac Makwala would get one of the biggest cheers of these championships? Yet when he ran a 200m heat on his own in the lashing rain, having been barred from entering the stadium a night earlier when he was meant to be in quarantine for norovirus, the stadium roared in delight.
Yet a few days later there was a twist as the South African Wayde van Niekerk, supposedly athletics’ new superstar, broke down in tears before claiming he had been disrespected by a wild conspiracy theory that Makwala had been kept out of the 200m in order to make life easier on him.
Yet no matter how much Coe wanted the issue of doping to stay in the background, it was always bubbling under the surface. On Sunday morning Farah went as far as to accuse parts of the media of having a vendetta against him for questioning his coach Alberto Salazar, who is under investigation by the United States Anti-Doping Agency. Salazar denies any wrongdoing.
“It’s like a broken record, repeating myself,” said Farah. “If I’ve crossed the line, if Alberto’s crossed the line, why bring it up year after year, making it into headlines? I’ve achieved what I have achieved – you’re trying to destroy it,” said Farah, following his last race on the track at a major championships.
“So many times you guys have been unfair to me. If you say Mo Farah has done something wrong‚ prove it.”
For most of the championships British athletes enjoyed limited success. But a glorious final weekend in which Farah took silver in the 5,000m, along with four relay medals, meant they hit their UK Sport target of 6-8 medals in London.
Some wonder whether athletics will be able to maintain the momentum given its credibility issues and the fact that the next championships in 2019 will controversially take place in Doha in Qatar, the Gulf state that will also host the 2022 World Cup.
Coe, however, argues that, despite his sport’s lingering issues, it has turned a corner. “There is a growing confidence within the sport,” he insisted last night. “We took tough decisions and reforms to make the sport better. There is still a long way to go. But people are proud about being involved in the sport.”
“What we have witnessed this week will inspire a generation of young people. We have shown that, when we get it right, this sport is unassailable.”
The verdict is still very much out on that. But after a desperate and suffocating few years for the sport, athletics might just have room to breathe – and hope – again.
Shocked Western Force stars say the players are sticking tight and believe the fight to save their Super Rugby team is not over. Dane Haylett-Petty and lock Adam Coleman revealed the feelings of the six-strong Force contingent in the Wallabies squad in the wake of the Australian Rugby Union’s decision to axe their Perth-based Super Rugby franchise.
“I suppose it’s mixed emotions,” said Haylett-Petty on Monday as the Wallabies prepared for their Bledisloe Cup opener against the All Blacks in Sydney on Saturday. “I’m angry, confused, disappointed, but as a group we’re really sticking tight and the process is not done yet.”
His comments came shortly after Rugby WA gained an injunction order against the ARU decision while waiting to learn if it will be granted leave to appeal it in the NSW Supreme Court.
Coleman reinforced the united approach of the Force players and stressed he wouldn’t be committing to another Super Rugby team until a definitive decision was made on the Force’s future. “I personally think the fight is not over yet and Dane believes that too and so does the rest of the WA rugby community,” Coleman said.
Haylett-Petty emphasised he would not bear a grudge against any Force player who looked elsewhere for their future in the meantime.
“I don’t think you could ever hold it against anyone for looking after themselves and there may be a few boys in that situation,” Haylett-Petty said. ’”But I think hopefully this is resolved in the next few weeks and from chatting with a lot of the boys, the boys are willing to stay tight to the end.”
As Usain Bolt performed his final lap of honour, illuminated by thousands of flashbulbs and with the scent of fireworks hanging in the air, he paused at the start mark of both the 200m and 100m and crouched down, eyes beginning to moisten.
“I was saying goodbye to the fans and saying goodbye to my events also,” he said. “These are my two events that I have dominated for years. I was saying goodbye to everything. I almost cried. It was close but it didn’t come.”
The Jamaican had last been seen limping into the bowels of the London Stadium after his final race ended prematurely in injury and heartache. But he returned to be presented with a framed section of the track on which he won three of his eight Olympic titles at London 2012. The 30-year-old gladhanded with the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, and Seb Coe, president of athletics world governing body, the IAAF.
But he was feeling less kindly towards London 2017 organisers, suggesting a lengthy wait in the cold before the 4x100m relay on Saturday night may have contributed to what he confirmed was a pulled hamstring.
“It was unusual,” he said, “I knew that I had to warm up because I felt a little tight and my coach said: ‘Make sure stay as warm as possible in the call room. But they took us out to an area behind the billboard while two medal ceremonies happened and we waited for 10 or 15 minutes and it was kind of windy. I said: ‘Why did you guys bring us out?’ But we’re athletes, we just follow the rules.”
After being beaten to bronze in the 100m, won by Justin Gatlin, a week earlier it was a bitter blow. But Bolt insisted he had no regrets about continuing after winning three golds at Rio 2016.
“I don’t think one championship is going to change what I’ve done,” he said. “After losing the 100m someone said to me: ‘Usain, don’t worry Muhammad Ali lost his last fight also, so don’t be stressed about that.’ I’ve proven myself year in year out, throughout my whole career. My fans asked me to go on one more year and I did it for them.”
Last week Bolt bristled in a press conference when asked if the modest 100m times run worldwide this year were perhaps reflective of improved anti-doping mechanisms. He rolled his head back as if exasperated that anyone should have the temerity to pose the question and his dismissive reaction was criticised in some quarters. But on Sunday night he was unequivocal in his damnation of drugs cheats.
“I’ve always been strong on doping,” he said. “I feel like athletes should get life bans. If you go out of your way to cheat to be a better athlete I feel you should get life bans, that’s a fact. We hit rock bottom last year or the year before and now we’re on our way back up. Now we have to be strict on this to help the sport stay in a good place. I’ve proven to the world you can do it. You can be great without doping, that’s one of the things I want to preach to the younger kids.”
Being a mentor to youngsters, particularly in his native Jamaica, is something Bolt intends to occupy much of his time on in retirement. But first will come the nightclubs of London and Kingston.
“My bucket list right now is to have some fun,” he said, “to just go out and have a drink. I’ve had a stressful championships, so I want to spend some time with my family, too.”
Track and field has been Bolt’s life since his remarkable talent was first identified aged 10. No other job has been required, so inane interview questions are not something he has had to contend with. But when asked where he sees himself in 20 years his answer suggested he will not be actively clinging on to the spotlight. “Hopefully I’ll be married with three kids,” he said, “still in track and field and just watching sport grow. I said I won’t be one of those parents who force their kids to do the sport, but if they want to run I will tell and show them it’s a great sport.”
It was left to Lord Coe to ponder once more the quandary of what the sport will look like without Bolt and he decided that there will never be another. “What we are going to miss about Usain Bolt is not the three back-to-back Olympic Games or the clutch of world records or the medals,” he said. “It’s going to be because he has an opinion, he has a view, he fills a room. We have some really terrific talent that’s identified themselves at these championships, but that’s not the same as filling that void.”
It had been a long time coming but Dani Stevens smashed the longstanding Australian women’s discus record to claim world championships silver in London. Eight years ago, the then 21-year-old Dani Samuels claimed a shock world championships discus victory in Berlin – making her the youngest female throwing winner in the history of the world titles.
It was a tough act to follow. But Stevens kept plugging away and was rewarded on Sunday night at the Olympic Stadium. Already in the silver-medal position behind Croatian powerhouse Sandra Perković, Stevens unleashed a massive final-round throw of 69.64m – almost two metres more than her previous personal best. Even more significantly, it was 92cm better than the Australian record set by Daniela Costian in 1994.
Two-time Olympic champ Perković won the gold medal with a throw of 70.31m. The bronze went to Melina Robert-Michon of France with 66.21m. But the only thrower seriously challenging Perković was Stevens – who had an epiphany after finishing a frustrating fourth in the Rio Olympics last year.
“I always had faith in my potential and the direction we’ve been heading,” Stevens said. “Rio was a really big motivator. I’ve known we’ve been on the right track. It’s just about being able to unleash one in a pressure situation. I knew I could and I felt like I was building with each throw.”
Stevens refused to get distracted by what Perković was doing in Sunday’s final, preferring to focus on herself. “I have always said I would be able to throw 70 metres and my lifetime goal is within reach and to win a medal again is fantastic,” she said. “It’s amazing to be up on the dais again.
“I got to that last one and I completely relaxed and unleashed and had that one thing I needed to focus on to give me the height to get that extra distance.”
Alexander Zverev kept his winning streak alive with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over Roger Federer in the Rogers Cup final on Sunday.
The 20-year-old Zverev, the winner last week in Washington, posted a 10th straight match victory and ended the 36-year-old Federer’s own winning streak at 16. The German also tied Federer with a fifth tournament victory this year, although Federer’s haul includes two major titles. Zverev also got even for a loss to Federer at Halle in June and leveled their career head-to-head record at two wins each.
Zverev used some sharp groundstrokes to keep Federer from taking control early and got the only service break he needed to win the first set. Zverev escaped a break point at 1-0 in the second set with consecutive aces, then broke a mistake-prone Federerfor a 4-3 lead and served out the match.
Zverev, the youngest Rogers Cup finalist since Novak Djokovic in 2007, was coming off an emotional victory over Canadian teenager Denis Shapovalov in the semi-finals. Federer missed a chance to tie Ivan Lendl for second place all time with 94 tournament wins. Jimmy Connors leads with 109.
In the doubles final, fifth-seeded Frenchmen Pierre-Hugues Herbert and Nicolas Mahut beat seventh-seeded Rohan Bopanna of India and Ivan Dodig of Croatia 6-4, 3-6, 10-6.
What a role reversal. Three weeks ago, as a close friend and Open Championship housemate, Justin Thomas swigged from the Claret Jug won by Jordan Spieth. Perhaps this part in a Sunday blowout provided the final piece of inspiration needed by Thomas to press home years of promise. Now he, the US PGA Champion, can fill the Wanamaker Trophy with whatever he chooses. The run of first-time major winners is now eight from the last nine such events.
On a ferociously hot, gripping North Carolina afternoon Thomas prevailed by two, at eight under par. He has made something of a habit of following in the footsteps of Spieth. In 2013, a year after Spieth led the University of Texas to the college golf championship, Thomas did likewise for the University of Alabama.
Still, it has taken until recent times for the 24-year-old Thomas to carry such form properly into the professional ranks. Before this major triumph he had won three times on the PGA Tour this season. At one of those tournaments, in Hawaii, Thomas shot 59.
There was never even a remote chance of a repeat performance here, which owes everything to Thomas’s ability to emerge from a tense scrap. At 5pm on Sunday he was part of a five-way tie for the lead. Only half an hour earlier Hideki Matsuyama had led the championship by one.
The momentum shift in Thomas’s favour came on the 13th, where he chipped in for a birdie to move to eight under par. He maintained that position until the penultimate hole, where a glorious tee shot set up a 14ft birdie chance. Thomas converted, delivering a fatal blow to the already struggling Matsuyama in the process.
Thomas took to the 18th with a two-stroke lead, with even a drive into a bunker insufficient to halt his victory march. By this juncture the rest were scaling an ice mountain in slippers. Thomas’s fourth round was of 68 shots.
Matsuyama’s one-over-par 72 – an outcome possibly linked to the intense pressure attached to another attempt at becoming the first male Japanese major winner – ensured a share of fifth which does not fairly reflect his earlier contribution. Francesco Molinari, Patrick Reed and Louis Oosthuizen shared second. Reed and Molinari had returned Sunday 67s.
Rickie Fowler’s four birdies in succession from the 12th tee raised his hopes of ending his major wait. Yet having reached five under, Fowler needed more from Quail Hollow’s famous Green Mile closing stretch. There was to be no continuation of the surge.
What a week this proved for Jordan Smith, the 24-year-old from Bath. Two years ago, he did not even have status on the tour immediately underneath the European Tour. Smith duly progressed to the point of winning the European Open on his previous start, thereby earning a maiden major start. How Smith made the most of it: his Sunday 68 meant an aggregate of one under and a guaranteed return to the US PGA next year.
“I’m still pinching myself,” Smith admitted. “I’ve had some really good groups, enjoyed the whole experience and ended up playing some really good golf, so I’m happy.”
Smith’s total was one better than Paul Casey and two ahead of Ian Poulter. Jason Day put aside his disastrous eight at the final hole on Saturday to post a one-under 70, for the same 72-hole tally.
Dustin Johnson’s Sunday 67, which earned him a top-2o finish, evoked memories of his opening to 2017. The world No1 has struggled, by his own admission, since toppling down a flight of stairs the day before the Masters.
“Going into Augusta I’m playing the best golf of my career,” Johnson said. “Everything was working very well. Then unfortunately I didn’t get to play the Masters and I’ve struggled a little bit this whole summer. It’s all due to what happened right before Augusta, slipping and hurting my back.
“I feel like the game is coming around. It’s starting to feel a lot better. I’ve got confidence in it again. It’s close to being really good.”
Spieth signed off with a 70 and words of encouragement from his caddie, Michael Grellar. Spieth’s total was plus two, with the Texan now set for a break before beginning an assault on the FedEx Cup he won in 2015.
“Michael is telling me walking off 18 today, he goes: ‘Hey, just want you to know that’s a great year in the majors,’” Spieth said. “He thinks I’m disappointed maybe with how this week went. But we won a major. We had a chance to win at Augusta, too.
“The US Open and here I didn’t have a chance to win, which is a downer. But overall, when I look back on the year in the major championships, it was fantastic. If I did this every year, I would go down as the greatest ever to play the game.”
Spieth was waiting at the back of the 18th green and therefore among the first to congratulate his contemporary on victory. It is party time again.
Australia have lost 48-0 to France to crash out of semi-final contention at the women’s rugby union World Cup in Ireland. The Wallaroos are winless after conceding eight tries in their second group match in Dublin on Sunday and sit third in pool C after their narrow loss to the host nation Ireland last week to begin their campaign.
Winger Shannon Izar did the damage for France, completing a hat-trick by the 25th minute as the world No4 side took a 29-0 lead into half-time. Australia’s attack was repeatedly undone by turnovers while the opposition benefited from the dominance of their forwards, who completed 16 offloads to two. Inside centre Chloe Pelle picked up a double, while French flanker Romane Menager was named player of the match.
Wallaroos coach Paul Verrell admitted his side were outclassed. “Tonight we were outplayed by a better side,” he said. “They were well drilled and started the match at a high intensity and we weren’t able to match them.
“To record a result like that after the promising performance we put in against the Irish is disappointing, but we must now turn our attention to our final pool game against Japan, which will be an important match for us. We’ll continue to recover and prepare well over the next four days ahead of the final pool game and our move to Belfast for the play-offs.”
Ireland and France are both undefeated after the home side saw off the last-placed pool C side Japan 24-14 on Sunday. Four-time champions New Zealand are top of pool A after trouncing Hong Kong 121-0, while Canada are also undefeated thanks to a 15-0 win over Wales. England beat Italy 56-13 in pool B, while the USA claimed a 43-0 win over Spain. The top-four seeded teams go through to the semi-finals.
Diego Costa has accused Chelsea of treating him like a “criminal” and revealed he will not return to the club, which he still hopes will sanction his return to Atlético Madrid.
The 28-year-old striker, who has been informed by Antonio Conte he has no future at Stamford Bridge, told the Daily Mail that the Chelsea manager lacks charisma and that he is happy to continue accepting fines for refusing to train with the reserves at the club’s Cobham training base. “They want me to be there training with the reserves,” Costa said.
“I wouldn’t be allowed access to the first-team dressing room and I would have no contact with the guys. I’m not a criminal. I don’t think it is fair after all I have done to be treated like that. I am not in the wrong here. So, if they need to fine me, let them fine me. I take the hit every week but I’m not driven by money. You know that the manager doesn’t want me. I am waiting for Chelsea to set me free. I didn’t want to leave. I was happy. When the manager does not want you, you have to go.”
Costa made a text conversation with Conte – in which the Italian informed him his Chelsea career was over – public knowledge in June, insisting he “would have to find a way out” of the club. But Costa, who scored 20 Premier League goals to help Chelsea win the title last season, said he was close to agreeing a new contract as recently as January at Stamford Bridge but believes Conte intervened before he could put pen to paper.
“I was on the brink of renewing my contract and they put the brakes on it,” he said. “I suspect the manager was behind it. He has his own opinion and that will not change. I respect him as a great coach. He has done a good job and I can see that. But as a person — no. He is not a coach who is very close with his players. He is very distant. He doesn’t possess ... charisma.”
Costa remains hopeful of securing a return to Atlético, where he played for four years between 2010 and 2014 before joining José Mourinho’s Chelsea. Costa admits the Manchester United manager has contacted him to “check I am OK” and insists he never had any problems with the Portuguese.
He adds he has informed the Chelsea director, Marina Granovskaia, of his intentions to depart for La Liga and that he has rejected offers to leave Chelsea, who he accuses of trying to sell him to Chinese clubs. “I want the deal with Atlético resolved this month,” added the Spain striker. “My idea would be to go to Madrid, train there, get in the best physical shape and be ready to fire ahead of the World Cup.”
Almost from the moment Neil Black became British Athletics’ performance director in 2012 he targeted the relays because he knew they were the lowest of low-hanging fruit. Five years on, during the final day of the world championships, he watched as his team gorged on the juicy flesh on offer – and, in doing so, perhaps saved his job.
Two more medals on Sunday – a silver in the women’s 4x400m and a bronze in the men’s 4x400m – meant that Britain completed a sweep of relay honours and took their final tally in these championships to six.
Incredibly, after having just one medal during the first eight days, British athletes went on to claim another five in a stretch from 8.35pm on Saturday to 9.20pm – which must count as one of the most successful 24-hour periods in its history. True, six medals is at the low end of the target of six to eight set by UK Sport. But that mark has still been hit which means Black’s job is surely safe.
The first British medal on Sunday came in the women’s 4x400m. It had looked a weak race before the start and it became even weaker when Jamaica’s Anneisha McLaughlin-Whilby pulled up on the second leg with a hamstring problem.
That meant the 4x400m was no longer a battle royale between Jamaica and the United States but a procession. With Allyson Felix, who ran a staggering 48.7sec leg, driving the US team home they cantered to gold in 3.19:02.
Almost six seconds behind came Great Britain’s team of Zoey Clark, Laviai Nielsen, Eilidh Doyle and Emily Diamond, who took silver in 3:25.00, with Poland third in 3:25.41.
Nielsen paid tribute to the home support afterwards. “The crowd was even louder than they were on Saturday and I didn’t even think that was possible,” the 21-year-old Londoner said. “The team is so close so to come out and win a medal is beyond words. I can’t even begin to describe how amazing this feels.”
Now it was up to Britain’s relay men. Their team had been struggling all season but the elimination of Botswana, the Olympic silver medallists Jamaica and London 2012 champions Bahamas had given them a chance of an unlikely bronze. And they took it.
Matthew Hudson-Smith, who had missed the semi-finals, put Britain in second place behind the Americans. And while Dwayne Cowan slipped back to third, he established a 15-metre lead over the rest of the pack – allowing Rabah Yousif and then Martyn Rooney to bring home a medal behind Trinidad and Tobago, who took gold, and the US.
Rooney, the twice European 400m champion, has had a poor season by his standards, having not broken 46 seconds all year. But in the relay he becomes a different animal. And while Rooney was happy with a medal, he believed that if he was in better shape he might have even turned bronze into gold.
“I have never been set up like that before,” Rooney said. “Even when we won a medal in Beijing it was a lot tighter and there was a lot more work to do. I wish I was in the shape I was in last year because I think I could’ve gone past those guys down the home straight.
“It is still amazing to come away with a medal at our home world championships,” he added. “I am really proud to be part of this team. There are some big men on this team who really stood up out there. We all came together to discuss everything, we sorted it all out and the result is a medal which is incredible.”
Meanwhile, the British Athletics chief executive, Niels de Vos, also sounded an upbeat note about the performance of the Great Britain team, who had previously come in for criticism for their lack of medals in individual events.
“We are extraordinarily happy,” De Vos said. “We will have had more finalists than we have ever had before, that’s a fantastic result.
“We had four fourths on the track that collectively were less than two-tenths of a second away from being four medals. They weren’t medals, but this is a team in transition and coming out having our most finalists ever as we push towards the next Olympiad is a great place for British athletics to be in.”
Fresh from her relay success, team captain Eilidh Doyle also insisted that the team had made great progress over the past 10 days at these world championships. “You’ve got to look at the bigger picture,” she said. “We’ve made the target but we’ve also had some really excellent results. I urge people to look at how many people finished higher than where they were ranked coming into this – our team as a whole has performed really, really well. I’m super proud of this team, they’ve done a really good job.”
This was a Romelu Lukaku-Marcus Rashford show that José Mourinho and Manchester United will hope can run and run. The Belgian’s double put United in pole position – before late strikes from Anthony Martial and Paul Pogba – and Rashford again proved he can be the X-factor the manager desperately requires if he is to lead United to a 21st championship. By the hour here Mourinho’s side were stroking the ball around and through West Ham in an impressive fashion witnessed only sporadically last season.
Rashford played a key part in one sequence that closed with an offside Henrikh Mkhitaryan finish, while Lukaku ran across the line and into deep positions to pose the Hammers awkward questions.
Eighty-four days after United’s previous Premier League game their mission of converting last season’s 15 draws into victories began with Lukaku as the spearhead. The 24-year-old is the No9 Mourinho bought, for £75m, to provide a similar weight of goals to Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who managed 28 in all competitions last season.
Seventeen of those were in the league, seven fewer than Lukaku’s haul for Everton. The new man’s key role in the Mourinho masterplan was illustrated early. Lukaku is a powerful man and when he biffed aside a defender, then later rose to a high ball in the penalty area it was clear that if United are to prosper Lukaku has to fire, too.
Those unwanted 15 draws caused United to limp to sixth place, only securing a Champions League berth by winning the Europa League. Ten were here, at a venue that demands entertainment as the minimum offering. If, say, just half those draws had been wins at Old Trafford then United’s final points tally would have risen to 79, enough to finish third.
United managed only 54 goals last season, an obvious factor in the lack of wins. Quizzed about this in the buildup, Mourinho acknowledged the need for more goals from those around the No9. The XI he sent out could be billed as forward thinking. Ander Herrera was a surprise omission as the Portuguese sacrificed a midfielder for an extra forward. This was Juan Mata who lined up alongside Mkhitaryan, the No10, and Rashford, the left-sided wide man.
The trio were stationed behind Lukaku in a 4-2-3-1 but if all want to be chosen consistently they will have to register more than the 15 goals they returned between them in the last league campaign. Inside a stadium louder than it has been in recent times, United hogged the ball and moved it menacingly on occasion during the opening half. This allowed Mata to move behind for a chance that was blocked, but when in a second time he did not hit the ball instantly. At this juncture United could be accused of a lack of directness in the last third. This has been a complaint about the post-Sir Alex Ferguson teams and when they did finally register it was via some quick thinking.
Rashford relayed the ball to Lukaku and he followed Tuesday’s Uefa Super Cup consolation in the 2-1 loss to Real Madrid by crashing a shot in off Joe Hart’s right-hand post to make it 1-0.
Rashford’s pace gives United’s frontline a crucial dimension and he continued to light up the side when they roved forward. Mourinho’s recognition of this may have prompted him to allow the 19-year-old to flit across positions. After the opener Rashford switched from left to right to create problems along that wing. Then, he hung around next to Lukaku to make it a dedicated two-man strikeforce. By the close of the first half he was back on the left and could wander off surely to hear a contented half-time word from his manager.
The question now was could United go on and convince they could be prolific goalscorers this season. In just seven of their 19 league outings here last season they scored two or more. This again points to the fault of the attackers, plus Jesse Lingard, Martial (on the bench on Sunday) and even Pogba, whose return of five was underwhelming for a footballer of his talent. In that 2-1 loss to Real, Mourinho referred to a late chance Rashford spurned that would have taken the game into extra time.
Almost as soon as Martin Atkinson blew for the second half Rashford missed a near-identical opportunity. The teenager raced clear but missed badly to the left of Hart.
United were soon in total control, though, as Lukaku made no mistake with his head and that was a second league goal for the home crowd to enjoy as Mourinho’s team finished the game far more dangerously than they started it. Rashford hit a post before Martial and Pogba made it 4-0 to send supporters home buzzing.
When Rashford was replaced by Martial on 79 minutes Lukaku wandered over to him to pat his cheek. There already seems a telling understanding between them.
It is, of course, very early days for the Lukaku-Rashford pairing and for this United side, whose next test is at Swansea on Saturday. Yet the early signs are there that this could be a year to remember for United. As Mourinho said: “After many years of Premier League experience, I keep my feet on the ground. But fans have reasons to be optimistic because we are.”
Cristiano Ronaldo scored a sensational goal and was then sent off for a combination of his provocative celebration and for diving as Real Madrid beat Barcelona 3-1 in an explosive Spanish Super Cup first leg.
Gerard Piqué scored an own goal early in the second half to give Real the lead in the annual curtain raiser between the Liga champions and the King’s Cup holders although Lionel Messi looked to have saved his blushes by scoring a controversial penalty in the 77th minute after Luis Suárez was fouled.
Ronaldo, a substitute, rattled in a wonderful goal from outside the area three minutes later to restore the Liga and European champions’ advantage, earning a booking for removing his shirt and also mimicking Messi’s celebration at the Santiago Bernabéu in last April’s Clasico.
Ronaldo was given a second yellow card moments later for diving to attempt to win a penalty and he will miss Wednesday’s second leg at the Bernabéu. Far from letting Barcelona back in, the Spain forward Marco Asensio then extended Madrid’s advantage with a scorching shot from outside the area in the 90th minute.
Rafael Benítez revealed that Jonjo Shelvey had apologised after “letting everyone down” by collecting an inevitable red card for needlessly standing on Dele Alli’s ankle in an off-the-ball incident at St James’ Park on Sunday.
That transgression on the part of the Newcastle United midfielder – Benítez’s captain for the day – played a big part in the newly promoted side marking their return to the top tier with a disappointing 2-0 defeat to Tottenham Hotspur.
Goals from Alli and Ben Davies – both scored after Shelvey’s 48th-minute dismissal – briefly assuaged Mauricio Pochettino’s disappointment at his board’s failure to reinforce his Spurs squad with a single new face this summer while dismaying his Newcastle counterpart.
“Jonjo knows he has made a mistake and he apologised in the dressing room afterwards,” said Benítez, who felt that Tottenham’s Harry Kane should have been shown a red rather than a yellow card for a first-half tackle on Florian Lejeune, which left the centre-half barely able to walk and unable to continue.
“The tackle from behind from Harry Kane was worse than what Jonjo did,” said Newcastle’s manager whose side defended very well until the sending-off. “But the rules are the rules and we paid for that. It’s not just me, Jonjo has let everyone down, we’ve talked about it for a while. If you want to win Premier League games you can’t lose focus for one minute.
“If we want to win Premier League games we have to do everything really well. I was happy with the effort of my players today and there were a lot of positives but all the effort we put in on the pitch was lost because we did one mistake.”
Mike Ashley made a rare appearance in the directors’ box but, asked whether he intended to have face-to-face discussions with Newcastle’s owner on Sunday night Benítez side-stepped the question. “I have to concentrate on my team,” said a manager openly “unhappy” at this lack of transfer market support this summer. “I don’t know if any signings are close but we know what we need and we know what we have to do.”
Although Pochettino is still waiting to welcome his first new face of the summer, Tottenham’s manager was considerably happier. “I’m very pleased,” he said. “It was important for us to get three points to change the memories of the last time we played here [when Spurs lost 5-1 in May 2016].
“Newcastle defended so deep it was difficult for us to find space in the first half but we played better in the second half and we would, of course, have won without the sending off.”
He expressed a certain sympathy with Benítez while disagreeing with him over Kane’s tackle. “I think it’s difficult,” Pochettino said. “Viewed from another side, it’s completely different. It’s not fair to say it merits the same punishment as Shelvey.”
After praising debutant right back Kyle Walker-Peters, the Argentinian dropped another hint about the need for reinforcements. “We need some new players,” he said. “We have a lot of games in the Premier League and the Champions League. We need more quality, more competition.”
NFL players Chris and Kyle Long, who hail from Charlottesville, Virginia, were among the sports stars who condemned the violence that erupted in the city over the weekend.
White supremacists had gathered in Charlottesville to protest against the removal of a statue of Robert E Lee and were met by counter-protestors. On Saturday, a car was driven into a crowd of peaceful counter protestors, killing one woman, 32-year-old Heather Heyer.
On Saturday Chris Long, who won the Super Bowl with the New England Patriots last season, offered a withering assessment of the far-right protestors, who took to the streets with torches. “Insanely frustrating. Evolution will favor the self assured ... not man babies with tiki torches or people playing ‘militia’”, he wrote on Twitter. Long chose not to attend the Patriots’ visit to the White House to meet Donald Trump after their Super Bowl victory.
Insanely frustrating. Evolution will favor the self assured... not man babies with tiki torches or people playing "militia"
Chris Long added on Sunday that most people from Charlottesville would have objected to the far-right protestors. “I haven’t seen statistics but I’d be willing to bet the vast majority of people voicing those white supremacist sentiments were from out of town,” he said. “The majority of the people that were defending our hometown against ideals like that were from Charlottesville, or students. It’s disheartening but I really think it’s desperation for those folks to feel threatened by us doing the right thing.”
On Saturday, LeBron James took a swipe at Trump, who has been criticized for not condemning the white supremacists specifically. “It’s sad what’s going on in Charlottesville. Is this the direction our country is heading? Make America Great Again huh?! He said that,” he wrote on Twitter.
It's sad what's going on in Charlottesville. Is this the direction our country is heading? Make America Great Again huh?! He said that🤦🏾‍♂️
Kyle Long echoed his brother Chris’s comments about his hometown. “Obviously, people ask, ‘You’re from Charlottesville?’ it kind of leaves a bad taste in their mouths thinking that one of their guys is from Charlottesville, where they see all these rallies and stuff happening. Like I said, don’t let a few bad apples ruin what is really true about Charlottesville and that area – there’s good folks there,” said the Chicago Bears offensive guard.


There was no surer thing at London 2017 than Caster Semenya winning 800m gold. The unknown was how fast she would go. The South African defended her title in a stunning personal best of 1:55.16, the eighth fastest of all time. But considering she breezed over the line after a blistering 27.8sec final 200m the mind boggles at how fast she is capable of going. Surely Jarmila Kratochvilova’s world record of 1:53.28 is within her reach?
Whether the world ever gets to find out will probably be decided not on the training track in Pretoria, where she is based, but in the picturesque Swiss town of Lausanne where the court of arbitration for sport is based because Semenya’s story is not as straightforward as her victory was last night.
Even while these Championships were part way through, Seb Coe was reiterating the intention of the IAAF, of which he is president, to implement a rule which would force the 26-year-old to have hormone replacement therapy or quit the sport.
Lord Coe confirmed that the IAAF will return to CAS this autumn to continue arguments over the case of the Indian sprinter Dutee Chand, who accused the organisation of discriminating against her by setting an upper limit for the testosterone levels of female competitors. The outcome of that case will have a direct effect on Semenya, who has been here before.
After she won 800m gold at the world championships in Berlin in 2009, her first of three world titles, the IAAF determined a testosterone threshold which, if exceeded by a female athlete, would render her unable to compete in a women’s race. This meant Semenya could run again but only if she took medicine to suppress her testosterone. She won silver in 2011 and again at London 2012. But in 2015 the rule was overturned and the South African has dominated since, winning a 20th consecutive 800m race to the cheers of the crowd inside the London stadium.
Semenya was fourth through the bell and Francine Niyonsaba, of Burundi, and the USA’s Ajee Wilson tried to break her between 400m and 600m but Semenya was with them round the top bend and really turned on the burners with 100m to go. Niyonsaba held on for silver in 1:55.92 with Ajee Wilson of the USA taking bronze in 1:56.65. Afterwards Semenya paid tribute to the London crowd. “I just love you guys. It feels like home in London. I used to say Berlin was like my home. Obviously it is South Africa, but there are such fantastic people here. Beautiful,” she said.
“I’m lucky to have a great support team who work with me. Full credit to them. Another world title is a fantastic honour for me and I love to do it here in London. The crowd are so welcoming to me and it makes it feel even more special.”
On attempting an 800m world record next, she added: “We need to clear 1:55 first and it will require a lot of hard training. I have Olympic, world and Commonwealth titles now so maybe it is time to target the world record. It’s the next thing on the list. I know it will be difficult but I will have to attempt soon, maybe.”
Britain’s Lynsey Sharp knew it would take the race of her life to get into the medals and it did not materialise as she finished 8th in 1:58.98 “Obviously that is the worst result I could have had,” she said, “I committed from the first lap, I didn’t just want to go through the motions. But I didn’t have the legs with 250m to go. It’s been hard to get to this point, so I’m proud of that.”
It was Semenya’s second podium finish of the week after she pipped Britain’s Laura Muir to bronze in the 1500m final and reignited the debate about hyperandrogenism, the condition she has which is characterised by very high levels of naturally occurring testosterone.
Shamefully, she has been the subject of mean-spirited commentary – notably from Katie Hopkins, who even mocked the South African’s choice to wear a suit when she married her partner earlier this year.
Coe admitted he understood the sensitivities around Semenya’s case earlier this week but defended the IAAF’s quest by claiming he was doing the right thing by his sport. “This is an incredibly sensitive subject,” he said, “We are all fathers and brothers. I don’t want athletes being demonised but it is the responsibility of the federation to create a level playing field in female sport.
“We don’t want to turn this into a witch hunt. Nobody is choosing to cheat here. This is not an anti-doping issue – it is a biological one. I have to protect the sport, and of course we have done this carefully.”
Understandably feelings are strongest among those who compete in Semenya’s event, particularly because Niyonsaba and the Kenyan Margaret Wambui, who have been the dominant two-lap trio over the last couple of years, are also thought to have the condition.
Ajee Wilson’s agent, Ray Flynn, said earlier this year: “It’s an open secret that her event has become monopolised by athletes born with hyperandrogenism. It’s a difficult situation but ironically, they discriminate against women themselves. It’s not an even playing field.”
One day Laura Muir will surely possess enough global medals to match her immense talent. For now, however, she leaves these world championships with nothing more to show for her efforts than pride in an outdoor 5,000m personal best.
The 24-year-old, who has set five British records and two European records at distances ranging from 1,000m to 5,000m in the past year, simply could not handle the hot pace of the favourite, Hellen Obiri, and the Ethiopian Almaz Ayana when they ripped the race open shortly before halfway or indeed, of a second pack that formed which chased the bronze medal.
But Muir still showed immense grit to finish as quickly as she did before coming sixth in 14.52.07 – and afterwards she said she was happy with how the race had gone. “I was always going to let Obiri and Ayana go,” she said. “I knew they were in a different class so I wasn’t too worried about them breaking away. I also knew I had a lot of rounds in my legs so I had to pace myself and stay strong. I think I showed that over the last lap. To finish in the way I did makes me really happy.”
Ahead of her Obiri sprinted clear with 300m to go to win in 14.34.86, with Ayana taking silver six seconds back. The Dutch athlete Sifan Hassan, who has made significant steps since joining Mo Farah’s coach Alberto Salazar, took bronze in 14.42.73. Muir added: “The African girls are so strong, so I am pleased with how I ran. I was so close to the medals, finishing fourth and sixth in the finals. Five races in ten days is a lot so I think I can take a lot of positives.”
Eilish McColgan, who produced another fine performance to finish 10th in 15.00.43, said the race had not gone as she expected. “We were practically walking those first couple of laps,” she said. “It’s a shock to the system when you go from walking then in to a fast pace.”
Meanwhile Chris O’Hare’s World Championships ended with bitter disappointment as he finished last in the men’s 1500m final. Elijah Manangoi sailed past his Kenyan compatriot Timothy Cheruiyot in the last 50m to take the gold medal with Filip Ingebrigtsen clinching a memorable bronze for Norway. “I felt good and the plan was to stay comfortable,” said O’Hare. “But that third lap was just horrible for me and I was stuck in a horrible cadence, a horrible tempo. It was just rubbish. I know I am so much better than last place today. It’s hard to process at the moment as I haven’t seen it. All I know is I wasn’t good enough today and it’s tough to take.”
Tom Bosworth was also left a heartbroken man after seeing his hopes of a World Championship medal in the 20km walk crushed by a disqualification on The Mall. Bosworth, who finished sixth at last year’s Olympics in Rio, was hoping to become the first Briton to claim a major championship medal in the event since the 1964 Olympics. He led the way for much of the first half of the race before disaster struck.
Bosworth said: “I was feeling great and walking faster than I ever have done. It all seemed to be going fine until 12km and I got two red cards on that lap. I put in a burst and was pushing the boundaries but it was a real shock to get the third red card.”
Elsewhere Qatar’s Mutaz Essa Barshim secured high jump gold with a winning leap of 2.35m. The Russian Danil Lysenko, competing as a neutral athlete, took silver with 2.32m while Majd Eddin Ghazal, of Syria, had the best record of three men who cleared 2.29m to take bronze – his country’s first world championship medal for a male competitor. Britain’s Robbie Grabarz bowed out having failed to clear 2.29m.
Sandra Perkovic took the discus title with a throw of 70.31m. Dani Stevens, of Australia, took silver with Melina Robert-Michon of France in third.
For a few seconds after Sam Vokes had risen to meet Steven Defour’s cross to give Burnley an improbable 3-0 lead over the Premier League champions at Stamford Bridge, Antonio Conte stood staring into thin air with his hand resting impassively on his chin. The Chelsea manager has witnessed a lot during a decade in the dugout but watching his misfiring team succumb so meekly to a side who had recorded just one away victory last season surely must have been a new experience.
After a strange summer that has seen his employers spend the best part of £130m on new players yet go into the title defence looking considerably weaker than the outfit who swept all before them just a few months ago, the Italian then found himself fielding questions that suggested he had deliberately sabotaged his starting lineup in a bid to send a message to the club’s owner. Conte bristled visibly at that accusation, staring down his inquisitor before insisting “you don’t know me very well”, although quite what Roman Abramovich would have made of it all is anyone’s guess.
“No I’m not worried, because it’s normal,” Conte said later. “It’s important for me not to close my eyes, but to focus on our mistakes and to try to work to improve.”
Almost two years to the day before, José Mourinho had stood in the same dugout and watched his reigning champions begin their title defence by having a player sent off and subsequently failing to see off a visiting team expected to struggle. Save for Mourinho’s outburst at team doctor Eva Carneiro that proved to be the beginning of the end of the Special One’s second coming, that 2-2 draw with Swansea had many parallels to Saturday’s shock defeat, with Gary Cahill this time playing the part of Thibaut Courtois in being dismissed early on another sunny afternoon in west London.
But while Mourinho’s ire had only increased after the final whistle on that occasion, a second-half comeback that almost rescued a point seemed to help his successor find his focus once more, even if the manner in which Chelsea had imploded after the England defender was sent off in the 14th minute for his studs-up challenge on Defour will be of great concern for Conte.
He did reveal some frustration by suggesting they would need to work on a new formation “with nine players” after Cesc Fàbregas was also dismissed late on. The latter’s suspension for the trip to Wembley to face last season’s runners-up, Tottenham, on Sunday, coupled with the continued absence of injured £40m signing Tiémoué Bakayoko, leaves a gaping hole in midfield that even a master tactician such as the former Juventus and Italy manager will find difficult to fill.
Having loaned out 26 players so far and having sold Nemanja Matic and Nathaniel Chalobah, there is no real excuse and even with Chelsea expected to make a renewed attempt to sign Leicester’s Danny Drinkwater and their interest in Barcelona’s Sergi Roberto, Conte put the ball firmly in his employers’ court before a match that, even at this early stage, could help to define their season.
“The club is trying to do their best in the transfer market,” he said. “I am a coach and now the season has started so my focus is just on the pitch and working with my players. This is my squad and this is my team and I want to fight with these players. The club is doing the work.”
On Spurs, Conte said: “We have one week to try to find the right solution. For sure, this game will be really tough but we must be ready. We must be ready. We must have the same will, the same desire to fight as the second half. I think we have to restart from there.”
By contrast, his counterpart Sean Dyche rightly revelled in his side’s achievement – which continues their remarkable record of having defeated the champions in each of their four seasons in the Premier League. The sales of Michael Keane and Andre Gray for a combined £43m would have knocked the stuffing out of most teams in the lower reaches of the division but it is a credit to their manager that they were deserved winners against Chelsea.
Reinforcements in the form of the French defender Nicolas Isimat-Mirin from PSV Eindhoven and Chris Wood of Leeds could be on their way, although Dyche – who was a candidate to replace Sam Allardyce at Crystal Palace before they opted for Frank de Boer – would happily settle for what he already has.
“We’ve had it happen many times since I’ve been at the club. Almost every year, every other year, arguably some of the best players go out of the building,” he said. “It’s not ideal, of course. Nobody wants to lose their best players. It’s a reality of this club and some of the challenges it faces. It’s not something I want to happen, but it happens. But it’s more about focusing on what you’re then going to do next. I’m not really one for crying at anything. I tend not to cry too much.”
Along the scenic train route that takes fans from Brighton to the Amex Stadium there was noise. Inside the ground there were flags, sing-alongs and a parade of heroes from Brighton and Hove Albion’s less celebrated past geeing up the atmosphere further. The noise did not stop all game and the efforts of the supporters were matched by the players. There was no way Brighton were about to let their Premier League debut pass them by.
In the end Albion were deservedly beaten by Manchester City thanks to Sergio Agüero and a full-blooded own goal from Lewis Dunk. The Seagulls’ last home match in the top flight was against City too, in front of 17,794 at the Goldstone Ground in 1983. A lot has changed in the intervening time. The club lost their stadium in 1997 and nearly went out of the league altogether. In 2000 Brighton and Hove became a city. It was the city council that supported Brighton’s plans for a new 30,000-seat stadium. Many of the crowd that filled the venue on Saturday will be too young to remember the dog days. This is a new club for a new city.
“I suppose you’re looking back to the Goldstone Ground and now at the level of support that can get into the stadium today,” said Brighton’s manager, Chris Hughton, after the match. “I think the capacity of Withdean [where Albion played while the Amex was built] was 6,000, 7,000. The present day chairman and the work of the people before him has provided the people of the city with this wonderful stadium. We’ve got to make sure we get the best use from it.”
Getting the best out of the ground and the crowd will presumably require winning home points. There will be no surprises in how Hughton plans to do that. Any success will be built from strong organisation, limiting chances and maximising opportunities. It is what served Brighton so effectively in the Championship and the first two elements were visibly in place against City.
Brighton started in 4-4-2 formation but one that easily compressed into a back six. City carved out one good chance in the first half and Gabriel Jesus should have buried his header from Agüero’s cross. But it was the only moment in the entire match when the visitors played through Brighton’s massed ranks. Wide midfielders Solly March and Jamie Murphy tracked Danilo and Kyle Walker across the pitch and nullified City’s width. The central midfield pairing of Dale Stephens and their record signing, Davy Propper, harried David Silva and Kevin De Bruyne and recycled possession in tight spaces.
With all that defending the connection to equally hardworking forwards was strained, however, and even chances to win free-kicks were limited. A flurry of deliveries early in the second half might have been turned in by first Shane Duffy and then Propper. That, however, was it. When Stephens was caught in possession in the 69th minute by De Bruyne and fed Silva who found Agüero to open the scoring, it seemed almost inevitable. Despite their resilience one can play without the ball for only so long; Albion mustered 22% possession for the match.
If Brighton are to find themselves all hands to the pump more often than not this season, they will have to be exceptionally effective with the possession they have. They were not helped on Saturday by last year’s Championship player of the year, Anthony Knockaert, being confined to the bench through injury nor by the fact that the loanee forward Izzy Brown, who starred for Huddersfield last season, was forced to leave the pitch with a hamstring strain after 18 minutes.
Hughton hopes to add pace to his forward line before the month is out. He will also likely complete the signing of the winger José Izquierdo from Club Brugge this week. “What he’s given his previous club is pace and goals,” Hughton said. “Probably if I look at where we are, and the players we’ve got, we need a contribution from the wide players. With the two we have up front our pace is more there. We hope that can change in the central position. But he [Izquierdo] is a good player and he’ll give us pace and hopefully goals.”
Hughton’s opposite number was not talking about signings after the match. Instead Pep Guardiola was purring about the quality at his disposal. “If you want to play in a certain way, the way I like, with players on the ball, then you need talent,” he said. “Our midfield positions are ‘phwoar!’ Really good. They all have such a lot of quality. I like players when they have the ball. I love that. And they keep it, they keep it well. Last season I rotated the team a lot and I will do that again. All of them are going to play.”
The list of attacking options available to Guardiola is frightening and he chose to start with both Jesus and Agüero in a front two on Saturday. His star performer, however, was one of his team’s veterans, a man sporting a new skinhead haircut and playing in the heart of midfield. Silva has been at City for seven years and is as streetwise in the ways of the Premier League as anyone at the Etihad.
“You know my opinion on David,” said Guardiola as he looked forward after what he considered a regulation win. “He’s not a new player in the Premier League, he’s not afraid, he has courage especially in the bad moments to play. I love to see players want to play when the situation is not comfortable. But we depend on everybody not David alone. The idea is to convince them that is the best way to play and to win games because that’s why we are here: to win games.”
Steve Mounié fancied he was suited to the Premier League long before Huddersfield Town reached the same conclusion. Growing up in France after moving there from Benin as a four-year-old, the budding striker idolised Didier Drogba and dreamed of emulating the Ivorian. So he was thrilled when Huddersfield recognised his talent and paid £11.5m, a club-record fee, to prise him from Montpellier in July.
At Selhurst Park Mounié and his new club introduced themselves to the Premier League in spectacular style, the striker producing two emphatic finishes to crown a triumphant individual and collective performance. “Now people know who I am. I couldn’t imagine a better start. It’s a big confidence boost,” said Mounié before revealing his long-held admiration for Drogba – and also for Christian Benteke, the Crystal Palace forward who enjoyed the opening day of the season rather less than him.
“My idol is Drogba,” says Mounié. “Sometimes I just watch video clips of him, scoring goals over here. I think I have a similar style with him. I’m big like him. Benteke as well, who is a great striker. I have to learn off them.”
“ What [Drogba] did here is an inspiration to me. He is also African and we almost have the same story. He was born in Africa and came to France and then to England. I will try and follow in his footsteps. He is a great player and man. I’ve never met him but maybe I will in the future.”
Mounié has a long way to go if he is to follow in the footsteps of a player who won four Premier League titles, four FA Cups and the Champions League during nine years in English football but one cannot fault his ambition. And he has a head start on his hero, who was 24 when he moved from a Ligue 1 club, Marseille, to Chelsea in 2004. Mounié is 22.
At 6ft3in the Benin international is also a tad taller than Drogba and he demonstrated his aerial power when scoring his first goal in the Premier League, an unstoppable header that put Huddersfield 2-0 up against Palace after Joel Ward’s own goal had given the newly promoted team a deserved lead. He also showed his aerial strength in defence, heading clear corners at the near post just like Drogba used to do. And he then confirmed his clinical shooting by firing into the net to crown Huddersfield’s victory when Palace were threatening to get back into the game.
“For this year he has to confirm and make further steps but we should not forget he’s 22, still very young, has a lot of space to improve,” said David Wagner, the manager whose many qualities include an ability to recruit shrewdly. “The arrival of David Moss as Huddersfield’s head of football operations in the summer has strengthened that ability and it was the former Celtic scouting expert who first mentioned Mounié to Wagner.
“The good thing is that he isn’t only a goalscorer, he is also a very good character, open-minded, who likes to learn and who likes to work,” continues Wagner. “This, altogether, can give you everything you need to become a proper striker in the Premier League.”
Huddersfield under Wagner are a proper team, every player well chosen and well attuned to the manager’s pleasingly bold approach. That was already clear from the way they played their way out of the Championship and, at Selhurst Park, it meant they compared favourably with a Palace side that struggled to adapt to the style cultivated by Frank de Boer, the newly appointed manager whose first match could hardly have gone much worse.
Most tipsters make Huddersfield certainties for relegation but Wagner and his players are justifiably confident that they can confound the prophets of doom, as they did last season. “I know that we have a real chance to stay up,” says Wagner. “I knew this before this game. We are in the Premier League and we have a real chance and it’s up to us what we do out of it.”
Neymar scored on his Paris Saint-Germain debut as Unai Emery’s side breezed past Guingamp 3-0 as they made it two wins from two in Ligue 1. The Brazilian, signed from Barcelona for a world-record £198m, slotted home after 82 minutes, converting Edinson Cavani’s low ball across the box.
Cavani earlier doubled PSG’s lead after Jordan Ikoko’s comical own goal, guiding his pass beyond the Guingamp goalkeeper Karl-Johan Johnsson.
Starting on the left of a front three also featuring Cavani and Angel Di Maria, but given considerable licence to roam, the 25-year-old Neymar produced plenty of impressive moments in what will surely go down as a memorable start to his PSG career.
PSG are second in the league on six points, behind Lyon on goals scored with Monaco, who thrashed Dijon 4-1 away earlier on Sunday, in third place also on six points.
Despite Monaco fans’ concerns that the French prodigy Kylian Mbappé might be leaving, they know they can still trust Radamel Falcao after the Colombian striker hit a hat-trick. The France international Mbappé was left on the bench amid speculation that he wants to join PSG but he was not needed as Monaco equalled the record of 14 consecutive wins in the French league.
Falcao scored twice before the break and once afterwards to take his tally to four goals in two games while Jemerson netted another. Earlier Lille were beaten 3-0 at promoted RC Strasbourg, conceding all three goals after the striker Nicolas de Préville took over as goalkeeper following the sending off of Mike Maignan in the 63rd minute.
London 2017 has shattered fairytale storylines, with Mo Farah’s and Usain Bolt’s farewell races ending in defeat, but it has created some, too – notably in the men’s 4x100m relay where Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake anchored the British team to gold and later celebrated with his mother, whom he had not seen for three years.
Mitchell-Blake’s joy was unconfined when the scoreboard in the stadium confirmed he had secured victory for Britain by holding off the USA’s Christian Coleman. The juxtaposition as he bounced around, arms flailing, while metres away medics tried to put Bolt in a wheelchair, was stark.
But Mitchell-Blake had extra reason to celebrate blindly, knowing a long-awaited reunion with his mother was on the horizon. The 23-year-old was born in Newham, just a few miles from the London Stadium but the family moved to Jamaica when he was 13. His mother still lives on the island while Mitchell-Blake trains at the University of Louisiana.
“Being at university and having summer school, I was unable to see her for three years,” he said, “I had the opportunity to fly her out which is what I did. She was staying down the road but I was in the holding camp in Paris and I didn’t want to move her around. Then she was in Derby as my grandma is sick. She came every day to the meet but I hadn’t actually said hello to her but she was up there in the stands and somehow she got down to the side of the track and words cannot describe how much it meant to share that moment with her.
“I actually started laughing as I was just so happy,” he added, “then I started crying and I don’t know why. I guess it was because I was happy.”
After years of bungled handovers and bad-tempered rows ruining their chances the British men put together an almost flawless performance to win in 37.47sec. It was the first time Britain had won a short relay since the Athens Olympics in 2004. Remarkably Justin Gatlin featured in both those races and afterwards told CJ Ujah, who ran a blistering first leg, they bore more than a passing resemblance.
“It looked identical to Athens,” said Ujah. “I heard Gatlin was talking about it and how he was in that team. It was exactly the same, a battle to the line, so it was nice to get the victory.”
At London 2012 the team was disqualified as the result of a botched handover between Adam Gemili and Danny Talbot but they were as smooth as silk exchanging from the second to third leg on Saturday night.
“I was 18 in London,” said Gemili, now 23, “It was brutal, a horrible time we went through. It really made us tough and strong within ourselves and a bit resilient to that. Five years later to do it on the same track in front of a home crowd, for myself and Danny and Christian Malcolm, who is the relay coach now and was in that team with us, it felt so amazing that we could do it.”
Meanwhile Dina Asher-Smith revealed the agony of her battle to recover from a broken foot in time to compete in London and ultimately win a 4x100m silver medal alongside Asha Philip, Desiree Henry and Daryl Neita.
Asher-Smith, 21, broke the navicular bone in her foot in February and had an operation that involved having two screws inserted to hold it together.
“In early June, when I was fit from running under water, I was fit from doing gym, I just had to transfer things to the track,” she said, “My group would do a whole session but I could maybe jog a lap and then my foot would get tired. The next day I would sleep, recover, then I would jog a lap and I’d be able to do some sidekicks and my foot would get tired. It was really quite painful, I wouldn’t wish it on anyone.
“It’s a completely different foot now,” she added, “Even shoes don’t fit any more. I can’t wear sandals any more.”
Her team-mate Philip knows how she felt, having suffered her own potentially career-ending injury while trampolining in 2007, which inflicted major damage to a knee.
“After what I went through I have so much sympathy for anyone who has to come through injury,” she said. “The fact Dina came back in such a short space of time, I take my hat off to her, not many people can do that. She didn’t give up and most people would have.”
Two tries from the replacement Paula Fitzpatrick spared Ireland’s blushes against Japan as the Women’s World Cup hosts came from 14-0 down to clinch victory and keep their hopes of reaching the knockout stages alive.
Japan, having conceded 72 points to France in their opening match, moved into a commanding lead at half-time with a penalty try and a score from the full-back Mayu Shimizu to leave Ireland shell-shocked.
The left-wing, Alison Miller, pulled Ireland back into the match on 46 minutes, soon after her team-mate and outside-centre Katie Fitzhenry had been shown a yellow card, with Nora Stapleton converting to reduce the deficit to seven. The scores were level at 14-14 with 15 minutes to go – Stapleton converting Fitzpatrick’s first try – and Ireland were ahead when the fly-half kicked a 73rd-minute penalty.
Fitzpatrick’s second try in the final minute made sure of the win but after squeezing past Australia, who have been focusing almost exclusively on sevens since the last World Cup, in their first match Tom Tierney’s side were again laborious in victory.
“Full credit to the Japanese, they threw everything at us in the first half,” said the Ireland captain, Claire Molloy, whose side face France on Thursday. “It was a new game in the second half. We were resilient yet again and we got the result. Unfortunately it was a backs-to-the-wall situation again but we got the result and that’s what counts.
“There’s a lot to work on, we’ll be unhappy with our handling errors and our breakdown again so we’ll need to fix that because we need some momentum going into the French game.”
Wales produced an improved display against Canada but again slipped to defeat, going down 15-0 to the 2014 finalists who are yet to concede a point in the competition.
Lori Josephson scored the first of Canada’s tries before a Magali Harvey penalty extended their lead to 10-0 with 10 minutes remaining. At that stage both sides had players in the sin-bin – Canada’s Julianne Zussman and Wales’s Carys Phillips both shown yellow cards – but Harvey, who scored five tries against Hong Kong on Wednesday, added another at the end.
New Zealand thrashed Hong Kong 121-0, running in 19 tries in total with Portia Woodman helping herself to eight of them. The Black Ferns, who beat Wales in their opening fixture 44-12, also scored through the centre Theresa Fitzpatrick (2), Carla Hohepa, Charmaine McMenamin, Chelsea Alley, Hazel Tubic, Sosoli Talawadua, Lesley Ketu, Kelly Brazier and Stacey Waaka. The scrum-half Kendra Cocksedge scored a try and converted 13 of the tries. It was not a Women’s World Cup record however – New Zealand beat Germany 134-6 in 1998.
Elsewhere the USA – England’s opponents on Thursday – cruised to a 43-0 victory over Spain with Naya Tapper scoring two of their tries. JJ Javelet, Cheta Emba, Hope Rogers and Jordan Gray also got in on the act for the USA.
Their captain, Tiffanny Faaee, said: “With England we know that they are very strong in the pack so our defence will have to be physical. We just need to be physical with them.”-
Romelu Lukaku responded to José Mourinho’s demand he should be a Manchester United “leader” by scoring twice on his Premier League debut as West Ham United were beaten 4-0 at Old Trafford on Sunday.
Lukaku broke the deadlock on 33 minutes before doubling United’s advantage eight minutes into the second half. Further goals from Anthony Martial and Paul Pogba on 87 and 90 minutes put Mourinho’s team top of the Premier League on goal difference.
Afterwards Lukaku, the club’s £75m summer signing, revealed he is revelling in the responsibility Mourinho has placed on his shoulders. “The manager wants me to be a leader for the team and create as much as I can,” the 24-year-old said. “We work hard in training and it is paying off. When you play for Manchester United you have a job to do and mine is to score goals. It is promising. The fans want to see attractive football and we have to stick to that. They will be pleased today. It is just the start. We need to keep working to the manager’s plan.”
Of Lukaku’s instant impact, Mourinho said: “He scored in the Super Cup [defeat by Real Madrid], he scored today. He is playing well, he is working hard. He likes the team and the team likes him. For every striker, he can play phenomenally well but, if he doesn’t score goals, he is not happy. [But] strikers can play very well for the team and no pressure from me.”
The Portuguese said United’s display and confidence was more important than being top of the table after the opening weekend of the Premier League season. He said: “The fact we start winning and are top, it means nothing. The performance and the levels of confidence is what means a lot to me. We lost two points against them last season [in a 1-1 draw] and had similar games where we dominated. Today we got the three points. The reality is that in the last part of the game, instead of being boring and controlling the game, we scored a third goal and we could enjoy it. What pleased the most was the win. Because many times last season we deserved to win and didn’t so the fact we won the match was the most important thing. We made mistakes and have room for improvement but it was a solid performance.”
In addition to Lukaku, Nemanja Matic caught the eye against an outclassed West Ham with a display which offered United control over the midfield battle. Mourinho brought him in from Chelsea for £40m and was asked why the champions had allowed the sale.
“It depends on what is happening or what was happening behind doors and we don’t know,” he said. “I never thought it was possible unless something special was happening and his agent told me something special was happening. We have him and we are very happy. He was a player this team needs.”
Mourinho suggested Victor Lindelof, a central defender who cost £31m in the close season, needs time to adjust. The Swede did not make the match-day squad, and the manager said: “Real Madrid [in the Super Cup] was too early for him. He played because [Phil] Jones and [Eric] Bailly were both suspended. I had players coming from different leagues to the Premier League and normally it is not easy.
“Lukaku and Matic have years of experience of the Premier League. Ricardo Carvalho was one of the best defenders in the history of the Premier League but in the beginning he struggled. Victor needs time and he will get time.”
Slaven Bilic, the West Ham manager, admitted: “They were better with the ball and better without the ball.”
Rory McIlroy may not play competitive golf again this year after using the conclusion to his US PGA Championship to reveal the extent to which a rib injury is still affecting him. McIlroy himself raised the possibility of skipping the remainder of 2017.
The Northern Irishman has been troubled since January, with pain transferring into his back. Having initially taken time off in an attempt to cure the problem, McIlroy returned for the key part of the season but has not enjoyed the results he would like, especially in majors. After signing for a final round of 68 here, meaning a total of one over, the 28-year-old spoke openly about his fitness troubles.
“Right now I can feel my left rhomboid going into spasm,” McIlroy said. “It’s sort of the way it has been for the last few weeks. I have upped my practice coming into these events because I wanted to feel like I was in a good place in my game. But right now it’s a tough one because I go out there and play and shoot decent scores, but when I come off the course, I feel my left rhomboid going into spasm. The inside of my left arm goes numb.
“I have got this next week off to assess what I need to go forward. I don’t know what I’m going to do. You might not see me playing again until next year. You might see me in a couple of weeks’ time. It really depends.”
McIlroy will take medical advice in his native Belfast this week. Key to his thought process is the Masters next year, with that event all McIlroy requires in order to complete a grand slam of majors.
“It’s tough,” said McIlroy. “I want to get back into that winner’s circle. You don’t want to be teeing off at 9.45 on the final round of a major on a Sunday. That is not where you want to be. The next big thing is April and that’s really what my focus will be on from now until then.
“I can play 18 holes. I warm it up, it’s OK. But once I get done, having to go through the whole routine of getting it ready to go again the next day, you shouldn’t have to do that. If I was injury-free, that wouldn’t happen. The more I play, it’s just not allowing that time to heal 100%.
“An injury like this, it’s eight full weeks of rest before you start to rehab it and then you go again. I felt like we took as much time as we needed to at the start of the year. That was basically seven or eight weeks. I got back and playing it felt OK through the Masters.
“I switched it off for a couple of weeks because I was getting married, going on honeymoon. Then once I started practicing again, I didn’t build up the volume gradually. I went from zero to hitting balls for three or four hours a day. That aggravated it a little bit.
“I just haven’t allowed it the time to fully heal. I wanted to play the season. I feel like I’m capable of playing well and winning and putting rounds together. But, if I want to challenge on a more consistent basis, I need to get 100% healthy.”
When asked why, against this backdrop, he would play again in the foreseeable future, McIlroy admitted: “I don’t know. I feel like a sense of not duty. I’ve missed a lot of time already. If I’m capable of playing, I feel like ‘Why shouldn’t you?’ But then at the same time, if you are not capable of playing at your best, why should you play? So it’s Catch 22.”
Ordinarily, McIlroy would launch the defence of his FedEx Cup over four events beginning in New York from August 24. Thereafter comes the conclusion to the European Tour’s season, including a marquee event in Dubai in November.
“I feel like I’m capable and playing well enough to give myself a chance in it [the FedEx Cup],” he added. “At the same time, April is a long way away. That’s the next big thing on my radar. Everything is up in the air because I don’t know when I’m going to play next, where I’m going to play next.”
Widnes will have greater challenges to come in the Qualifiers but for the moment they will be satisfied they avoided a major upset at the hands of the part-time side Halifax to record their first win of the mini-league and take a significant step towards Super League survival.
Widnes entered the Qualifiers as the side identified by many as most vulnerable when it comes to relegation to the Championship and, while this 36-12 victory does not guarantee a place in Super League next year by any stretch of the imagination, at least it ends a six-match losing streak to give Denis Betts’ side a platform from which to move forward.
Widnes scored seven tries to Halifax’s two to pick up a deserved win – with four more victories from their final six games likely enough to secure a top-three finish and avoid the perils of the Million Pound Game in their bid to retain their top-flight status.
Their defeat by Warrington – coupled with Halifax’s courageous effort at Hull KR last weekend – created the serious possibility of the Vikings being on the receiving end of a major upset which could have left them needing to win all their remaining games in the Qualifiers to stand any chance of the top three.
B but, ultimately, their Super League class showed with four tries in a 15-minute passage of play either side of half-time which took the game away from a determined and resolute Halifax side. Richard Marshall’s men, with a budget around a sixth that of Widnes, will certainly cause all the top-flightsides they play in the Qualifiers problems: but Widnes were too strong on this occasion.
“It was a tough game, wasn’t it?” said Betts. “It’s been a tough few weeks and Halifax had nothing to lose here. Their fans were cheering them on and they got really stuck into us but we got ourselves into a nice, comfortable position.”
For Halifax their run in the Qualifiers courtesy of a top-four finish in the Championship is more about the significant financial boost it will provide the club. Their players took a pay-cut at the beginning of the year – which was restored on qualification for the “middle eight” – but this was a courageous effort from the part-timers, much like last week against Hull KR.
“We had a tough lesson today but sometimes you need to go through those experiences,” Marshall said. Widnes would only breach the Halifax line once in the opening 33 minutes, with Chris Bridge’s eighth-minute try all they could muster. Eventually the amount of defending Halifax had to endure would tell, with Widnes taking the game away from them either side of the break.
First Lloyd White and Charly Runciman scored tries to open up a commanding 18-0 half-time lead before a brace from the wing, Corey Thompson, after the interval extended that lead to 26. At that stage a comprehensive defeat for Halifax appeared inevitable but to the part-timers’ credit, they rallied, scoring twice through the centre, Ben Heaton, to add some respectability to the scoreline before late tries from Joe Mellor and Danny Craven eased any nerves the Vikings may have had over a Halifax comeback.
IT was painful, messy and at times looked like a black comedy, but the ARU finally got its way last Friday and culled a Super Rugby team. But did the ARU cut the wrong team? Was the Western Force the team that had to go, or was it just the one that could be axed? And will the decision come back to haunt Australian rugby?
At the beginning of last year, the financially challenged Melbourne Rebels had been taken off the ARU’s hands by private owner Andrew Cox, while the Force had entered into an “alliance” with the ARU after selling its intellectual property for $800,000 as part of a financial rescue package.
The ARU did not need a market research company to tell it which team to cut, but so much has happened since then that the fortunes of the Force and the Rebels had virtually been reversed. When the Force indicated it would fight any attempt to cut it and challenged the ARU’s legal right to do so, the ARU looked to plan B, which was closing down the Rebels or merging them with the Brumbies. But this avenue was blocked when Cox decided against selling the Rebels’ licence back to the ARU and instead sold it to the Victorian Rugby Union for $1, which protected the Melbourne team from the chop.
Rugby WA is considering appealing the ARU’s decision to cut the Force in the NSW Supreme Court and mining magnate Andrew “Twiggy” Forrest has vowed to support the team. I am not a sports lawyer, but the arbitrator would have been acutely aware that this decision would be intensely scrutinised by both sides and would have ensured it was watertight. It is also my understanding that the scope for appealing the outcome of the arbitration is limited.
Let’s assume the Force are gone. As a result, Australia has been left with no Super Rugby team in Western Australia, which has the third largest participation numbers in the country behind the traditional rugby heartland states of NSW and Queensland. The Force also would have had the financial backing of a billionaire in Forrest, who had promised to do everything he could to keep the team going. And the Force had the passionate support of their fans, something was which was lacking in Melbourne and even Canberra. The ARU could have had a competitive team with a talented young coach and a wealthy benefactor in the West. Instead, it has the Rebels.
The Rebels have been non-competitive since they entered Super Rugby in 2011 and finished last this year, while their crowds have plummeted to about 8,000 a match. The Rebels’ original private owner – media buyer Harold Mitchell – lost an estimated $9m running the team before gifting his shares to the Victorian Rugby Union, which soon ran into financial difficulty and needed the ARU to step in and fund the team, costing millions of dollars. Now the Rebels are back in the hands of the VRU with no private owner or wealthy benefactor to prop them up.
The Rebels play in a sports mad city of almost four million people. That is why it made sense for the ARU to have a Super Rugby presence in Melbourne, but it could have achieved this objective without cutting the Force. While a merger between the Rebels and the Brumbies may have been a bridge too far, closing down the Rebels would have given the Brumbies an opportunity to play some or even half of their home games in Melbourne, potentially gaining corporate and fan support.
The potential for growth is in Melbourne and Perth, but that growth will now be stunted in the West and possibly Victoria as well. No Australian Super Rugby team is financially secure, but the Rebels and the Brumbies remain particularly vulnerable, while the Force would have had more security with Forrest’s backing. The ARU may think it has solved its problems by cutting the Force, but I suspect Australian rugby’s troubles have only just begun.
In the first week of the finals in 2013, the Roosters played Manly in a game so hard, fast and physical that it was considered as good as State of Origin. It was visceral, side-to-side, and end-to-end. And the hits! Oh my, the hits. The hits just kept on coming. Indeed, so impregnable and fine were the D-lines of both packs, the Roosters didn’t make a single line break and won 4-0. It was a game that said: “behold, planet rugby league, your grand finalists”. It also declared, in a Game of Thrones sort of way: “Spring is coming”.
Well, spring had already come. It was 8 September – but that qualifying final, first versus fourth, was a monster mash of hard-boned, super-competitive “Silvertails” who knew: the other mob is really good. Let’s bash them.
Four years later, spring is coming again. And everyone knows it. As Nelly sang, “it’s getting hot in here, so take off all your clothes”. Every fixture in round 23 bar the first on Thursday night had an edge. They mattered. Big dogs growled. Lesser dogs scrapped. And, ironically (another story) all bar the Bulldogs barked.
Storm v Roosters was match-of-the-round before it was played, during and afterwards. It was first and second: physical, fast, intense, a declaration of intent by two clubs who confronted their biggest threat. It was some game of footy. And if this is our grand final, it will be grand indeed. While the Storm underscored – yet again – they are a machine, the testing material, who tell you something about the sides they face. They were favourites with those who’d invest one dollar to recoup $2.25, but the Roosters should have won in Bleak City. The fact is they didn’t, and they’ll take away what they will. Yet the Roosters showed the way to beat Melbourne is this: run harder, tackle harder, and do it for 80 minutes.
It’s easier said than done. And so the machine rolls on. The Storm can win ugly or win pretty and can come back or smoke you all the way. They just keep on trucking with their particular brand of hard-bodied, smart, cynical, super-effective, brutal footy. They are your likely premiers.
North Queensland Cowboys didn’t lose any friends in their 24-16 loss to Penrith Panthers but surely they are gone. The 2015 premiers are clinging to 28 points; the number they’ve been rooted to for three weeks. And the Panthers bashed them like sides of beef in Rocky’s meat locker. The Cows were missing their champion, Johnathan Thurston, the fulcrum of all that’s good, and there was no Gavin Cooper. Matt Scott hasn’t played since Obama was president. Justin O’Neill’s elbow bent the opposite way to which it is intended. Michael Morgan was hit so hard he schlepped off like Cliff Young crossing the line at Westfield. Lachlan Coote had a crack at a field goal with five minutes left, his team down by two, and with some chance he was concussed. Yet the Cowboys kept coming. Hitting up, hitting hard – what else could they have done? Turned up their toes? You don’t play with Thurston for any length of time and not wear some of his half-mad hyper-competitiveness. Top level sports folk possess a ridiculous competitiveness. You know those naughty kids who cry when they lose? That’s these people, grown up.
Consider Jason Taumalolo. The man runs like Mal Meninga, a ridiculous human. His try in the 45th minute was equally ridiculous – hitting a short, flat ball off John Asiata, at speed, running an angle, and well, Penrith wouldn’t have stopped him with a hastily-built brick wall. Ethan Lowe converted and it was Cows by 10, against so much conventional wisdom. Yet North Queensland, without all that cattle, were eventually rent asunder. They can’t win the 2017 Provan-Summons Trophy. But they can knock out a few teams who think they can. The Cows have the Sharks at home, then Tigers away. The Dragons have Broncos next week, the Panthers after that. The Raiders have Penrith next week and Melbourne in the last round, in Melbourne. Manly should flog the Dogs and Warriors.
So, the Storm? You would assume so, yes. And the Roosters. And the Broncos. The Sharks are limping on in. Manly? Only maybe. Penrith? They’ve won six straight now, but only maybe, also. You like their players: Tyrone Peachey does plenty; Nathan Cleary will play Origin for NSW; Josh Mansour runs hard; Reagan Campbell-Gillard has presence; and James Tamou’s a big mobile body and has played for Australia, but you can’t truly fancy them.
The Eels? The who? Weren’t they top-four with a bullet the other day? They were flogged by the Bad News Bears, the Newcastle Knights. It was a shocking loss, perhaps even arrogant. They might have thought it was only the Knights, but Newcastle have been pretty handy, and in games for many minutes. Meanwhile, St George Illawarra put 42 on Gold Coast Titans, the Raiders put 36 on New Zealand Warriors and Manly put 26 on Wests Tigers but lost, because they lacked the intensity of a team that knew: spring is coming.
If sport’s ultimate promise is to fill you with wonder, then Luke Hodge, Sam Mitchell and Nick Riewoldt – all of whom will retire at season’s end – made good on that promise many times over. As too, on occasion, have fellow retirees Matt Priddis, Scott Thompson and Matthew Boyd. In many ways the 2017 season feels like the end of a generation, much as it did 10 years ago when the game bid goodbye to James Hird, Nathan Buckley, Anthony Koutoufides, Mark Ricciuto, Glenn Archer and Chris Grant.
Steve Johnson, who announced his retirement last Thursday, resembles a player from another generation entirely – an old fashioned footballer for which football is enjoyed as a pastime, not practised as a profession. Described by the novelist Anson Cameron as “meow’s last dancer, the gimp-Nureyev from Wang”, Johnson has for 16 years been an incorrigible pest for the coach’s box (and sometimes both of them). Johnson is a footballer who plays by his wits, having never been blessed with great pace – something not helped by the eight operations he had on his ankles in the three years following an incident in late 2003 when, with a few beers rolling through his system, he was locked out of the Torquay pub and tried to find his way back in by jumping off the roof.
Johnson has composed a brilliant career on a crafty set of moves built around cutting the angles in a way that appears vaguely mischievous. And like every great sportsman, he has a signature move – kicking across his body for goal. Johnson plays the way we would all love to play, to be able to kick those goals and to see the ball the way he sees it; it all seems to come naturally. “Stevie J” would be a fascinating case study for those psychologists that believe spontaneity is nothing more than an over-learned skill.
As Johnson is not one to play the percentages, he is often viewed as solipsistic. In his early years at Geelong he clashed with Matthew Scarlett, who thought him to be a very selfish player. But the greater threat to his time at Geelong may have been his impulsiveness off the field. In 2006 Johnson’s career nearly came to an end after a night of Christmas drinks at home in Wangaratta, when he decided to visit an old friend. Unaware his friend had moved, Johnson waited in the backyard and fell asleep only to be woken by police after neighbours had reported an intrusion.
When club captain Tom Harley received word that Johnson had been charged with drink-related offences, the fate of the old-fashioned footballer was in the hands of football’s more contemporary artifice, the leadership group. In Comeback: The Fall and Rise of Geelong, Cameron Mooney tells James Button that it was their first big decision as a leadership group. “A lot of people said enough is enough, it’s mistake after mistake. But the bottom line was, he was a ripping bloke… What happens in 10 or 20 years after we kick him out of the club? Stevie drunk at the end of a bar telling everyone he could have been a champion?”
Like the late Glen Campbell, Johnson would learn about the deals you need to make between your natural instinct and the demands of others to be the artist you want to be: “There’s been a load of compromisin’ on the road to my horizon, but I’m gonna be where the lights are shinin’ on me.” And the lights didn’t shine much brighter than they did on the afternoon of the last Saturday in September in 2007. “I was made to play on days like this,” Johnson told Assistant Coach, Ken Hinkley. “It’s why they put air in my lungs.”
After serving a six-week ban and vowing not to drink until the end of the season, Johnson became an integral part of an imposing Geelong outfit. And while he’d play the team game, Johnson would still find a way to remain a soloist. Even in games he would have classified as ordinary, he did something. But there was nothing ordinary about his game when Geelong broke its 44-year premiership drought. Four goals and a Norm Smith medal is some sort of something – a sense of wonder indeed. Now he could sit at the end of the bar knowing he was a champion.
But you suspect an impressive football resumé will provide little relief to the highly competitive Johnson as Devon Smith and Jeremy Cameron force their way back into the Giants’ line-up. With Brett Deledio now fit, Johnson may be pushed out of the best 22 and denied a chance at a potential fourth premiership. As the broadcaster cues its heartstring-tugging orchestra at the Brownlow medal ceremony to play underneath the highlights of those departing the game, Johnson will be hoping his reel has one game left to run.
On the contrary, you suspect there will be little fuss made of Dennis Armfield’s retirement that night, which is fine. Making a fuss has never really been the point with Carlton’s speedy veteran, who last week slipped relatively quietly into retirement. Although he is not undecorated on Brownlow night – he was recognised for his charity work with the Jim Stynes Community Leadership Award in 2015 – Armfield’s career is not exactly built on critical affirmation. While the talents of the Riewoldts, Hodges and Johnsons will be celebrated by the football world, there is something to be said for the hard-working club cult figure that fans can call their own, particularly when shared venues and carbon-copy, pre-game “entertainment” have seen clubs become more and more homogenised. To quote the comedian Jerry Seinfeld who was in Melbourne last week, kids today are basically barracking for laundry.
Armfield, who grew up playing rugby union at Kalamunda, was a third-round draft pick in 2007. Over the course of 10 years and 143 games he became a navy blue favourite for his relentless running, attack on the ball and Van Dyke beard. But you don’t last 10 years on a list if you can’t play a bit, and last year Armfield kicked back-to-back bags of three goals before rupturing a testicle in round 12. He returned a month later and kicked four goals in what was close to a career-best performance against the Crows at the MCG.
What made Armfield a revered figure at Princes Park, however, was his selfless approach to the game on and off the ground. He was a guy you could count on. The club’s head of football Andrew McKay said Armfield had been a role model for the younger players and his involvement in the club’s AFLW program spoke volumes of his genuine desire to help others. Carlton’s AFLW captain Lauren Arnell told The Guardian that to have a player of Armfield’s experience and standing fully invested in helping the team was critical.
“The hours he would spend with us during and after training were indicative of just how selfless and invested he was, perhaps even to the detriment of his own pre-season,” she said. “The best thing about Dennis is that he’s more than just footy, and is devoted to so many things in his life. Something I’ve learnt from spending time with him is where football sits in life. The philosophy of the club across both the men’s and women’s teams is about what success looks like both on and off the field and Dennis is really reflective of that.”
In his farewell letter to members, Armfield wrote that he would remain devoted to the club. “You can expect this washed-up old footballer to tap you on the shoulder at some stage and ask to join you for a beer at a game! I’m happy to get the first shout!” Perhaps sport’s ultimate promise is not of wonder but of connection. Regardless, it is a promise Armfield has made good on, whether he buys you a beer or not.
The role of the captain in modern football is not always entirely clear. Do teams need a single inspirational figure, a chest-thumper who stirs the heart and soul? An experienced head, one who can offer big-brotherly advice to his colleagues? Someone who leads by example, which usually just means being better than everyone else?
In theory it should not matter who has the armband. As long as he can tell the difference between heads and tails on a coin and is half-respected by his colleagues, he should not need much else, except just one other thing: ideally he should not brainlessly get himself sent off at a crucial phase of a game against title contenders.
In many ways Jonjo Shelvey is a maverick choice as a captain. Not known for his sense and cool head, he does not immediately strike one as the ideal leader for a team returning to the Premier League. But with the club captain, Jamaal Lascelles, on the bench, Shelvey did the honours and during the first half there was at least a nod towards maturity: following a robust challenge between Lascelles, on as an early substitute, and Dele Alli the pair circled each other like territorial cats deciding whether to swipe at each other, and Shelvey stepped in to advise his colleague that a scrap was not worth the trouble. Perhaps he has grown up.
Perhaps the impetuous youth who accused Sir Alex Ferguson of “grassing him up” after a red card back in 2012 is gone, and a new, wiser Shelvey is here to stay.
That lasted about half an hour. When Alli was on the ground not long after half-time after a challenge, Shelvey tried to grab the ball quickly but it was poked away by his scampish adversary. The newly sage Shelvey did the only thing he really could at that point: stamp on Alli’s foot, with the referee observing from about five yards away.
It was a textbook “hook, line and sinker” move, the equivalent of Lucy convincing Charlie Brown that she was not going to pull the football away as he tried to kick it, only to do exactly that, poor gullible Charlie left in the mud again. Mildly inconveniencing a combustible opponent might have been the sort of thing Alli did not think would actually provoke a significant reaction, but was worth a try anyway. That it worked provided an example of the learning curves on both men involved.
Because it is the sort of thing that one could imagine Alli himself falling for, at one point, and back in 2016, with Spurs trying to reel in Leicester City in the title race, he punched West Brom’s Claudio Yacob in the stomach and received a three-game ban.
Still a young and relatively inexperienced player, Alli’s temperament has been the one real question mark of his career to date, a sense that all of his terrific talent might be for nought if he couldn’t control himself more. In this game he had plenty of opportunities to do just as Shelvey did, with kicks here and there and one particularly nasty challenge, from behind by Matt Ritchie, that could have provoked a reaction. But the only reaction that came was to wind up an opponent and then score the first goal of the game.
Perhaps this is the way Alli has chosen to channel the “devil” in his game that people always say he has to retain. Rather than launching into rash challenges and elbows to ribs, he has instead decided to focus on riling whoever he happens to be playing that day. Not that this is new: Alli has enjoyed chiding opponents for as long as he has been around, but now the signs are it is without the stuff that will actually get him in trouble with the law.
Think of it as a poacher turned gamekeeper situation, the wind-uppee becomes the wind-upper, a man who knows exactly what will irritate players with a short fuse because he has one himself. Alli revelled in his status as an antagonist, soaking up the ire of Newcastle’s players and fans: a needless stepover and showboat here, a funereal trudge off the pitch when substituted there. He is the player whom opponents find easy to hate but fans find even easier to love. Shelvey could perhaps learn a lesson or two from Alli, a man four years younger and with more than 100 fewer senior appearances to his name, but one has seemingly learned lessons from the past and the other has yet to.
The way each manager spoke about his player later summed it up neatly. “He was calm,” said Mauricio Pochettino of Alli. “That’s important. Last season we talked a lot about how he needs to behave and improve. He’s mature enough now to accept what happens on the pitch.” Rafael Benítez resembled a parent who has repeatedly told a young child not to touch the hot kettle, but is on the way back from the burns unit for the fourth time. “All the effort we put in on the pitch was lost in one moment.” Was he angry? “We cannot change anything now.” He was not mad, just disappointed.
Alli has any number of fine qualities, and would be among the most effective attacking midfielders in the Premier League even if he was a placid, likeable character. But the devil, when channelled in the right way, makes him even better.
For Manchester United, it is difficult to see how their first game of the new season could have gone much better other than perhaps another goal or two to polish up their superiority. As it was, they shouldn’t be too greedy. Romelu Lukaku has wasted little time demonstrating why he became the club’s most expensive summer recruit and, on this evidence, it is shaping up to be a season of rich promise for José≈ Mourinho’s team.
Lukaku should certainly have dispelled any lingering self-doubt with the two goals that laid the foundations for the most emphatic league win of the Mourinho era. Not that the £75m signing displayed even a flicker of stage fright with the left-foot finish and close-range header with which he introduced himself to the Old Trafford crowd.
Lukaku ended a hugely satisfying afternoon waving appreciatively to the Stretford End and he might have finished with the ball as a souvenir had it not been for a brilliant saving tackle by Pablo Zabaleta, one of three West Ham debutants, to deny him a hat-trick just after the hour.
Yet this was more than just a story of Lukaku easing into life in Manchester and, though the new signing deserves the headlines, the form of Marcus Rashford and Paul Pogba, among others, should also fill Mourinho with optimism that his team are capable of significant improvement after last season’s sixth-placed finish.
Potential champions? You wouldn’t bet your mortgage against it and, for what it is worth at this time of the season, this rout puts them top already. Mourinho also made the point afterwards that we should anticipate the team getting better. “I’m not going to say the performance was perfect because it wasn’t perfect. There is still room for improvement.”
Henrikh Mkhitaryan was another of the star performers and, not for the first time, it felt faintly ludicrous that Chelsea had allowed Nemanja Matic to defect to one of their title rivals. Matic fitted in seamlessly and the home side were not flattered by the late one-two when the substitute Anthony Martial slotted in the third goal, quickly followed by the brilliantly effective Pogba knocking another in from 20 yards. It was a tepid show from West Ham and they have now lost 11 opening-day fixtures in the Premier League era, more than any other club.
As the crowd serenaded Mourinho and Joe Hart, West Ham’s new goalkeeper, was reminded that it was a long way down since he was winning championships with Manchester City, it did not seem to matter too much that Victor Lindelof, the £31m acquisition from Benfica, was not even in the home squad because of his unimpressive form in pre-season.
Another manager might have felt duty-bound to involve such a costly signing. Mourinho does not operate with those kinds of constraints and Phil Jones was recalled alongside Eric Bailly to make sure Javier Hernández did not have a profitable return to Old Trafford.
Hernández scored 37 goals in 103 league games during his days in Manchester and one imagines he would have loved the kind of chances that Lukaku’s team-mates served up for the Belgian. Mkhitaryan’s expertly delivered free-kick for the second goal was the case in point. Rashford’s beautifully weighted pass for the first was another. These are the opportunities Lukaku thrives upon and, as long as it continues this way, he should get a hatful this season. Rashford was also involved in the second goal, having been chopped down by Zabaleta for the free-kick, and the teenager curled another shot against the post before Martial took over for the last 10 minutes.
These are early days but Mourinho, slowly but surely, seems to be assembling a side with no obvious weaknesses and Matic’s contribution for the first goal was a splendid snapshot of why he had been added to the payroll. Matic played with great control and it was his interception, cutting out Pedro Obiang’s pass, that sent Rashford haring away on the counter-attacking move that led to Lukaku scoring from 12 yards.
West Ham had defended stoutly until that point but they set about the afternoon with a distinct lack of adventure and there were only sporadic moments when their new-look frontline of Hernández, Marko Arnautovic and André Ayew flickered into life. Arnautovic had their best moment with a looping header that David de Gea tipped over the crossbar but the score was 2-0 at that stage and, for the most part, Slaven Bilic’s men were pinned inside their own half. “They were better than us in every department,” Bilic reflected. “We are very low.”
Mkhitaryan’s precise pass left Martial with the opportunity to stroke in the third goal and the away end was rapidly emptying as Pogba added the final flourish and Hart was beaten for the second time in three minutes. “The fans have reason to be optimistic,” Mourinho said.
Frankie Dettori and Ryan Moore won Europe’s two big races on Sunday with the latter predicting a big future for his mount Sioux Nation, a clearly brilliant two-year-old who won a well-contested Group One Keeneland Phoenix Stakes at The Curragh.
“He’s a very exciting horse,” Moore said of the winner, who is in the care of Aidan O’Brien. “That was a good race and I think and hope he has a very good future. I couldn’t have been more impressed. I loved him at Ascot but I think he’s got to have fast ground.” O’Brien said later the colt could be a Breeders’ Cup contender.
Sioux Nation had won the Norfolk Stakes at Royal Ascot on his previous run and this time his superior mid-race speed enabled him to go a length clear of his Curragh rivals. Beckford, the Gordon Elliott-trained 15-8 favourite, was closing all the way to the line under Declan McDonogh but was beaten by half a length and the £142,000 first prize went to the Coolmore syndicate. The 2-1 winner was O’Brien’s 16th success in the race.
O’Brien said: “I think his turn of foot won it. He travels very well and quickens very well. Even though he’s a big horse, he’s got a lot of speed. Every run this year he has got better and has been coming forward.
“We wouldn’t want to run him on soft ground because he has a lot of pace. He’s by Scat Daddy, like Caravaggio. I don’t know if we’ll stretch him to seven this year. If we did, we could come here for the National Stakes and, if we didn’t, he could go for the Middle Park [Newmarket].”
Asked if Sioux Nation could be a Breeders’ Cup contender, O’Brien said: “He’d have no bother, I’d say. He’s big, powerful, rangy and loves fast ground. I’d say he’ll progress as he’s progressed with every run this year.”
At Deauville Dettori’s mount Al Wukair came out best in a thrilling finish to the Prix Jacques Le Marois, a Group One contest for three-year-olds and upwards worth £342,000 to the winning connections. Dettori told At The Races: “He jumped a lot more alert than last time and the pace of the race was slow.
“André Fabre said to me to try and build it up as he doesn’t do anything quick, so I decided to attack Christophe Soumillon [rider of Thunder Snow] about two and a half out. Mine was playing around a bit, though, and looking around, so I had to get a bit serious with him and then when Mickaël Barzalona [on Inns Of Court) came alongside he felt it was time to go. He got a crack off Christophe’s whip in his face and I think that woke him up and we flashed past the line together.
“I wasn’t sure I’d won but it’s a great win and he’s a good horse. The Jacques Le Marois is one of the best races in Europe.”
The jockey warned that the three-year-old, who finished third to Churchill in the 2,000 Guineas at Newmarket, needs easy ground to show his best: “Obviously the rain helped today. I rode him on firm in the summer and he didn’t really like that. I guess the long-term plan will be the QEII at Ascot where he is guaranteed to get softer ground and he likes to go straight. A mile and a quarter is within his compass, too, and at some stage we’ll look at stepping him up.”
Inns Of Court, owned like Thunder Snow by Godolphin, was possibly an unlucky loser as he reared leaving the stalls, costing him a couple of lengths, and was in front just before the line and immediately after it.
Ayr
1.45 Frolic 2.15 Magic Journey 2.45 Pipe Dreamer 3.15 So It’s War 3.45 Benjamin Thomas 4.15 Lady Joanna Vassa 4.45 Weekend Offender 5.15 Clarabel
Ripon
2.00 Bungee Jump (nap) 2.30 Voicemail 3.00 Stormin Tom 3.30 La Casa Tarifa 4.00 Theglasgowwarrior 4.30 Billy Bond
Wolverhampton
5.20 Indicia 5.50 Funkadelic 6.20 Zapateado 6.50 African Beat 7.20 Commodity 7.50 Flourishing 8.20 Circulate
Windsor
5.40 Double Spin 6.10 Immortal Romance 6.40 Medalla De Oro 7.10 Toulson (nb) 7.40 Codicil 8.10 Golden Easter
England’s defence of their World Cup title continues to simmer in Dublin as try doubles from Emily Scarratt, Danielle Waterman and Lydia Thompson lit up a comfortable 56-13 victory over Italy. Having scored 10 tries against Spain, England repeated the treatment on Sunday, outclassing an Italian side who have given them problems in the past.
It was not perfect – too many handling errors and an indifferent scrum will have frustrated the head coach, Simon Middleton – but it was a case of mission accomplished for England who are cruising towards the semi-finals. Next they face the USA, perhaps their hardest pool match, but another they will be expected to win, and Middleton has now blooded 27 of his 28-strong squad in Ireland.
Marlie Packer, who sat out the opening match against Spain, was perhaps the pick of the newcomers while Tamara Taylor brought work-rate in abundance in the second row. Waterman, who played the first half last week, was full of mazy running from full-back, while Scarratt brings an authority to the midfield that will prove invaluable in the knockout stages, even if she endured a mixed day from the tee. “It was a pretty good day at the office, there was loads out there that was really good but plenty that we can improve on,” said Scarratt, who was captain for the day, with Sarah Hunter on the bench. “We were a little bit inaccurate in that first half but foundthe a bit of added impetus later. We’re pretty happy with the scoreline in the end but we’re perfectionists and we’re always striving to be better.”
Against Spain Kay Wilson was the tormentor-in-chief, contributing four tries and duly earning herself the weekend off – Amy Wilson-Hardy coming in on the left wing and twice going close early on. Scarratt, restored to the starting lineup, struck first, however, going over in the right-hand corner after a cleverly delayed pass from Izzy Noel-Smith.
Alex Matthews – running a perfect line up the middle – notched the second try, scooting in under the posts but the first cracks appeared when Veronica Schiavon slotted a penalty for Italy and Maria Magatti finished off a sharp move. England have used their driving maul sparingly but it was effective in setting up Thompson’s score before half-time and the hooker, Amy Cokayne, was on hand for try No4, her second of the tournament, after an eye-catching run from the flanker Packer.
Taylor strolled over shortly after the restart – Scarratt swiftly followed suit – but Italy had a second try when Elisa Giordano squeezed over from a powerful driving maul. That a weapon so valued by England was used against them so effectively will be among Middleton’s chief concerns. He also has decisions to make in the back row, where the blend has not been quite right.
As the only professional side in the competition, however, superior fitness is another of England’s strengths and it was no surprise that a late flurry of tries ensued. Waterman helped herself to a quickfire double – the second after a delightful dummy enabled her to cruise in under the posts. Tries from Thompson and Wilson-Hardy completed the rout.
With Hong Kong thrashed by both New Zealand and Canada it is unlikely England will qualify for the last four as top seeds – their points difference, impressive as it will end up being, will not compete with the winners of that pool. Middleton, however, is happy with his side’s progress. “We have trained together for a long time and we are really comfortable about our combinations,” he said. “We have played two games with a lot of ball in play and it’s how we want to play.”
England Waterman; Thompson, Scarratt (capt; Jones, 62), Burford (Mclean, h-t), Wilson-Hardy; Reed, Hunt (Mason, 60); Clark (Cornborough, 62), Cokayne (Kerr, 62), Lucas (Cleall, 66), Taylor, Aldcroft, Noel-Smith; Packer (Millar-Mills, 62), Matthews (Hunter, 62).
Tries Scarratt 2, Matthews, Thompson 2, Cokayne, Taylor, Waterman 2, Wilson-Hardy. Cons Scarratt 2, Reed.
Italy Furlan; Sillari (Stefan, 55), Cioffi (Madia, 62), Rigoni, Magatti; Schiavon, Barattin (capt); Ferrari, Bettoni (Giacomoli, 65), Gai (Cucchiella, 62), Fedrighi (Tounesi, 65), Trevisan (Ruzza, 58), Arighetti, Locatelli, Giordano (Gaudino, 58).
Tries Magatti, Giordano. Pen Schiavon.
Referee Tim Baker (Hong Kong) Attendance 2,200
Lewis Grabban came back to haunt his former club as Sunderland came away from Norwich with three points from an excellent 3-1 win. The on-loan Bournemouth striker scored twice either side of a superb effort from Aiden McGeady to help the visitors to their first Championship success of the season.
Grabban also scored a late own goal to provide some consolation for Norwich, who deserved better, but it was Simon Grayson’s side who ended up with a win to go with their opening-day draw.
Afterwards Grayson was determined to keep his feet on the ground. “It’s a great win and it has been a strong-ish start for us, but that’s all it is, a good start, and no-one is getting carried away.
“What has happened here is in the past – it’s all about what happens in the future now and what I will say is that I have got a good, hard-working group here – it’s a working class city and that’s what the people demand.”
Norwich made a bright start in their first home league match under Daniel Farke, with James Maddison winning an early free-kick on the edge of the box and seeing his curling effort deflected wide for a corner. The Canaries’ possession-based game was keeping the visitors pinned back in their own half for long periods, but goalkeeper Jason Steele was not exactly overworked, and it was not until the 20th minute that he had to make his first save. He comfortably gathered a low drive from Russell Martin after a typically slick move from the hosts but seven minutes later the home fans were silenced as Sunderland took the lead against the run of play.
A routine high ball forward was flicked on by James Vaughan and Grabban shrugged off the attentions of Christoph Zimmermann before calmly slotting the ball past Angus Gunn. It was rough justice for Norwich, and they nearly went two down five minutes before the break when George Honeyman found himself free in the area after poor marking from a free-kick, only to shoot weakly straight at Gunn.
Norwich soon began building up a head of steam again after the interval, and Martin nearly restored parity on 56 minutes after Maddison’s corner had been headed on. But it was Sunderland who scored next, making it 2-0 with a real beauty from McGeady. The Irishman was lurking on the edge of the box when a corner was only half cleared and, after being picked out by Lee Cattermole, he fired in a superb first-time effort with his left boot to give Gunn no chance.
Farke brought on Nélson Oliveira in an attempt to get back into the game, having left the striker out for his squad in midweek following an angry goal celebration at Fulham the previous weekend. But it would not faze the visitors, who made it three on 71 minutes when McGeady beat his man on the left before whipping in a gorgeous cross to the back post which was headed in from close range by Grabban.
Norwich looked dead and buried but pulled one back six minutes later. A deep free-kick was headed back into the danger area and Grabban managed to hit the target at the wrong end when trying to hook the ball clear in the six-yard box. It was suddenly game on and Martin saw a fierce drive come back off an upright before Marley Watkins had a goalbound effort blocked.
Grayson said: “This is a tough place to come to and we knew they would be putting us under pressure in their first home game of the season, but I thought the lads stuck to the game plan really well.
“Obviously when you defend well and then take your chances really well to go 3-0 up, you have got to be absolutely delighted. We were disciplined and well organised, sitting back and letting them have the ball in certain areas and then moving in when we had to.
“I was also really pleased with the finishing. Lewis is always going to cause sides problems and at this level, while Aiden is probably the most talented player I have ever worked with and is looking good value at only £250,000.”
Farke was disappointed with the result, but not the performance of his side. “I thought it was a really good performance; we had 75 per cent of possession in the first half, just over 70 in the second, it was 13-1 in corners and we had a lot more chances than them.
“But in this game it doesn’t matter about your philosophy or your performance, it is about the results and it is down to the small things that we lost this game. For the goals, we defended sloppily and that cost us. For the first goal we failed to deal with their goal-kick and for the third we should have stopped the cross coming in.
“It is very frustrating but the fact that we dominated a game against a side who have only just come down from the Premier League is a good sign. They were well organised and sat deep and it’s not easy to score goals against a team like that. This just showed that you can always lose a game when you are not awake defensively for the full 90 minutes.”
Familiarity can so often be wonderfully reassuring but, for Newcastle United, it all too frequently provokes depression. There was to be no exception to this general Geordie rule on Sunday when the sight of Mike Ashley with his arms determinedly folded in the directors’ box simply served as a reminder of how badly the club’s owner has let Rafael Benítez down in the transfer market this summer.
As if that were not sufficient, a moment of mindless, all too typically self-destructive stupidity from Jonjo Shelvey – namely stepping on Delle Alli’s ankle straight in front of the referee – at the outset of the second half saw Benítez’s side reduced to 10 men.
Goals from Alli and Ben Davies consequently enabled a visiting team who had hitherto struggled to undo Newcastle’s defensive organisation to rediscover the benefits of what some fear has become an almost stifling familiarity.
After a summer of total transfer market frustration Mauricio Pochettino is desperate to introduce a few new faces ahead of a potential title challenge but, despite playing well within themselves, his existing crew were too good for their newly promoted hosts.
In some ways the first half went reasonably well for Newcastle; Rob Elliot’s goal was barely threatened, Christian Atsu’s pace periodically troubled the young debutant Kyle Walker-Peters, Dwight Gayle looked lively if not exactly subtle and Pochettino’s mounting frustration seemed highlighted when he ordered Moussa Sissoko and Christian Eriksen to swap flanks. Arguably, most reassuringly of all, the Tynesiders defended very well.
Yet there was still plenty to worry Benítez. Foremost among his concerns must have been Shelvey’s struggles to touch the ball, let alone unleash a penetrative play-making pass but Newcastle’s collective penchant for forfeiting possession far too cheaply can hardly have represented a cause for optimism either.
It did not help that Paul Dummett’s early attempt to intercept Sissoko left the home left-back hamstrung. That injury prompted Jamaal Lascelles’s introduction, with Benítez’s club captain swiftly proving his worth courtesy of a difficult block to prevent the impressive Mousa Dembélé from driving a shot into the bottom corner.
The substitution interrupted Newcastle’s initially ferocious tempo and, inexorably, Spurs began controlling the pace - and dominating possession. Benítez’s best hope appeared to rest with getting men behind the ball and thwarting his guests before using the pace of Atsu and Gayle to accelerate behind Pochettino’s high defensive line on the break.
Sure enough one such counter-attack did conclude with Walker-Peters tripping the striker in the area. Had a linesman not flagged for offside against Gayle, it would have been a penalty. No matter; the novice right-back may not quite be the new Kyle Walker but Walker-Peters did sufficient good things to suggest he has an extremely bright future.
The home bench suffered further disappointment when Harry Kane – then rivalling Shelvey in terms of minimal impact on events – was rightly shown a yellow card for catching Florian Lejeune late with an unfortunate tackle from behind which Benítez thought worthy of a red. The centre-half, newly recruited from Eibar, hobbled off and was replaced by Chancel Mbemba as Newcastle’s defence underwent yet another revamp.
That unit’s enduring efficiency ensured a slightly soporific ending to a first 45 minutes characterised by unusually abundant sunshine, a cacophony of piercing boos greeting St James’ Park old boy Sissoko’s every touch and Ashley’s looming directors’ box presence.
Earlier Sky had released excerpts of a pre-recorded interview with Newcastle’s owner featuring an admission that he had been “naive” in sacking Sam Allardyce and an apology to Chris Hughton for his treatment of the club’s former manager.
If that “sorry” was long overdue, Shelvey owed a very big apology to a lot of people after his idiotic 48th-minute sending off. With Alli prone on the turf after conceding a free-kick and cheekily pushing the ball away from his adversary, the midfielder stood on the England creator’s ankle, directly in front of Andre Marriner.
Decisions are rarely more straightforward and the referee wasted no time in reaching for his red card. With Lascelles beginning on the bench, Benítez had made Shelvey captain for the afternoon but, now, the Spaniard deliberately looked away as he trudged off.
Newcastle’s 10 men soon fell behind. Like Kane, Alli had endured an uncharacteristically ineffective start but he issued a belated reminder of his talent by registering that opening goal.
It arrived at the end of a hallmark Spurs passing move, concluding with Kane picking out Eriksen whose cross was met by Alli’s left foot and a stretching finish far too good for Elliot after the scorer had darted between Lascelles and Mbemba.
If Alli’s run had been timed to perfection so, too, was Ben Davies’s dash into the box as Pochettino’s left-back, claimed the second goal with a low, six-yard shot following slick first-time passes, from Kane and Alli and the increasingly excellent Eriksen’s deception of the home defence by shaping to shoot himself.
Anxious not to be eclipsed, Kane then hit a post before seeing a ’goal’ disallowed for offside. His moment will come - but Newcastle’s horizon looks ominously clouded.
Athletes could help us understand why most people are right-handed (and that seems worth understanding today, on International Left-Handers Day).
In the United States, despite scientific agreement that it’s partly genetic, the rate of left-handedness has fluctuated over time. According to a 2009 paper titled “the history and geography of human handedness”, American left-handedness declined before 1900, then picked up again, reaching approximately 12% – possibly because left-handedness is no longer “corrected” in schoolchildren.
To see why left-handers are still a minority, two mathematicians (both right-handed) analyzed athletes. Their study, published in 2012, hypothesized that the delicate balance between cooperation and competition has evolved humans towards our current rate of left-handedness. In a perfectly cooperative world, 100% of us would be righties, and in a perfectly competitive one, we’d be equally split 50%-50%.
The academics turned that theory into a mathematical model which they tested on several sports. The model accurately predicted the percentage of left-handed elite athletes in baseball, boxing, hockey, fencing and table tennis. The more competitive the sport, the higher the share of left-handers (over 50% of top baseball players are left-handed): as the report says: “physical competition, on the other hand, favors the unusual. In a fight, a left-hander in a right-handed world would have an advantage.” That’s why only 4% of golfers - who compete in a sport where you are not physically interacting with others – are left-handed.
So, whichever hand you rely on, you can rest assured you are contributing to the fine balance of human society as a whole.
Colin Kaepernick says he will stand for the national anthem this season – if he manages to find a team – but his message lives on.
Prior to Saturday’s pre-season game against the Arizona Cardinals, the Oakland Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch appeared to sit out the national anthem. Kaepernick did not stand for the anthem last season as a protest at racial injustice in the US, and several other players followed his example. Lynch was not one of them – the 31-year-old had retired from the NFL and did not play last season but chose to return to his hometown Raiders earlier this year.
#Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch sits during the national anthem prior to #NFL game against Cardinals. @usatodaysports @azcentral pic.twitter.com/OAUOfZ39SH
Lynch, a five-time Pro Bowler, is known for shunning the media and did not elaborate on his decision to sit out the anthem. The Raiders head coach Jack Del Rio said he had spoken to the running back about his decision after the game.
“[Lynch] said, ‘This is something I’ve done for 11 years. It’s not a form of anything other than me being myself,’” Del Rio said. “I said, ‘So you understand how I feel. I very strongly believe in standing for the national anthem, but I’m going to respect you as a man. You do your thing, and we’ll do ours.’ So that’s a non-issue for me.”
Photos suggest Lynch stood for the anthem during his previous career in the NFL but last year he expressed his support for Kaepernick’s protest.
“With what’s going on, I’d rather see him take a knee than stand up, put his hands up and get murdered,” Lynch said during an appearance on Conan. “So my take on it is, shit has to start somewhere, and if that was the starting point, I just hope people open up their eyes to see that there’s really a problem going on, and something needs to be done for it to stop. And if you’re really not racist then you won’t see what he’s doing as a threat to America, but just addressing a problem that we have.”
Kaepernick’s protest was criticized by some as unpatriotic and disrespectful to the military – something that the quarterback denied. Kaepernick has failed to find a place on a team this season despite a solid record in the NFL, leading many to believe he is being blackballed by league owners.
“You don’t have 32 starting-level quarterbacks in this league,” said the Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman, a former team-mate of Lynch, in March. “You have about eight elites, and then you have the rest of the league. You have about eight, nine elite quarterbacks. You have two or three who have the potential to be elite. And then you have the rest of the teams.
“So [Kaepernick] could play and start on a ton of teams in this league. He would be a starter on probably 20 of the teams in this league. But you’re telling me that you’re going to let other guys, you’re going to pick up some of these other guys and tell me that they’re starters?”
Liverpool arrive in Germany on Monday in less than ideal shape for their Champions League qualifying play-off first leg with Hoffenheim. Questions are once again being asked about their defensive capabilities following a somewhat shambolic showing at Watford on Saturday and with uncertainty continuing to surround the future of Philippe Coutinho.
Fresh season it may be but for Liverpool that fresh optimism is already being tested. It is too early, of course, for total doom and gloom, and especially so with Jürgen Klopp around. Liverpool’s fiery manager will no doubt have his team fired up for Tuesday’s encounter at the Rhein-Neckar-Arena, instilling in them the belief that they can take a crucial step towards their ambition of returning to the group stages of Europe’s elite competition for the first time in three years.
For Klopp the match represents a return to a venue he knows well from his Borussia Dortmund days while for one of his players in particular, the sense of familiarity will be even stronger as he attempts to emphasise his credentials as a vital part of Liverpool’s pursuit of former glories. Roberto Firmino spent four-and-a-half years at Hoffenheim before moving to Merseyside for £29m in June 2015. During that time the Brazil forward developed a reputation for being one of the most hard-working, astute and creative players in the Bundesliga, something that has burgeoned during his time at Liverpool after a difficult start during the final days of Brendan Rodgers’ tenure at the club.
It was not until Klopp arrived in October 2015 that things changed. The 25-year-old was moved into a central attacking role as part of the manager’s fluid 4-3-3 formation and immediately flourished, and it was somewhat of a shame that Liverpool’s late collapse at Vicarage Road overshadowed another excellent display by their false No9, who is now their actual No9 following a change of shirt number over the summer.
It was Firmino who led Liverpool’s second-half fightback after they found themselves 2-1 down at the interval, using his clever and relentless movement to unsettle Watford’s back four as well as being the man who directly contributed to the two goals the visitors scored in that period – playing the pass that led to the 55th-minute penalty, which he scored himself, as well as the lofted cross-cum-shot that Mohamed Salah converted to make it 3-2 shortly after.
Had Miguel Britos not equalised three minutes into injury time with a goal that was scored from an offside position but nevertheless highlighted Liverpool’s brittleness at set pieces, with Stefano Okaka having done the same via a header after eight minutes, it is likely there would be more positivity surrounding Klopp’s team right now, and specifically focused on their attacking play, which once again was excellent at the weekend.
Salah shone on his debut after his £34m move from Roma in June, while on the other flank Sadio Mané simply picked up from where he left off last season, scoring a sumptuous goal on 29 minutes and generally terrorising those in yellow and black with his devastating pace.
And in between them was Firmino, a player who can be fully appreciated only by being observed in the flesh such is the amount of work he does off the ball, something Klopp alluded to last month: “People say he does not score enough. What?! He is the best player without scoring with how well he reads the game for the benefit of others.”
Having scored 47 times in 151 appearances for Hoffenheim, Firmino has maintained a scoring rate of almost one goal every three games at Liverpool (24 in 80 starts across all competitions) but, as Klopp, says, his benefit to the side is broader than that. There are the runs into channels to drag defenders away, the runs at defenders to start a counter press and, as witnessed on Saturday, the perfectly weighted passes under pressure that led directly to scoring chances, for himself as well as others.
What felt apparent at Watford is that Firmino is now the established leader of Liverpool’s attack, and while it would be devastating for the club to lose Coutinho – with Klopp’s ambiguous comments after the Watford game only adding to the sense that the 25-year-old may well be on his way to Barcelona after all – they at least have another Brazilian who can be relied upon to get, and keep, those in red on the front foot.
Life under Klopp has not been plain sailing for Firmino. The forward suffered a slump in form during the winter months of last season, a period when he was banned and fined £20,000 for drink-driving. But he undeniably appears revitalised and refocused before his return to south-west Germany this week.
Hoffenheim, upwardly mobile under the management of Julian Nagelsmann, pose a serious danger to Liverpool but they will be more wary of their opponents than the other way around, and particularly so of Firmino, the man one German newspaper once described as a “master of moving around without anyone noticing”.
Mo Farah has accused sections of the media of trying to “destroy” his achievements on the track with unfounded allegations against his legendary coach Alberto Salazar and insinuations about how he attained his success.
Speaking the morning after his glittering championship track career came to an end with a painful 5,000m defeat in the London Stadium, Britain’s most successful ever athlete insisted his 10 world and Olympic titles had come about purely through hard work.
“History doesn’t lie,” Farah told his critics. “What I achieved over the years, people are proud of me. You can write what you like. The fact is I’ve achieved what I have from hard work and dedication. Putting my balls on the line, year after year and delivering for my country.”
As the exchanges grew more heated, Farah asked why some journalists kept bringing up his relationship with Salazar, who helped turn him from a very good athlete into a great one after he joined the coach’s Nike Oregon Project training group in late 2010. Salazar has been under investigation by the United States Anti-Doping Agency for the past two years but has always vehemently denied any wrongdoing.
“It’s like a broken record, repeating myself,” said Farah, who gave everything during a thrilling last lap only to finish second to the Ethiopian Muktar Edris on Saturday night. “If I’ve crossed the line, if Alberto’s crossed the line, why bring it up year after year, making it into headlines? I’ve achieved what I have achieved – you’re trying to destroy it.”
As Farah pointed out, while Salazar has been his coach on paper – which includes writing his workouts – the day-to-day training has been facilitated by the British team. “How many races has he been to this year for me or last year?” Farah asked. “He hasn’t been to any.
“I‘ve been pretty much by myself with the guidance of Alberto, as you all know. I was capable of doing the job. It didn’t make any difference to me. I know what I wanted to do. I was in a training camp for the British team.”
Farah also suggested that parts of the media, which has questioned the nature of his relationship with the controversial coach Jama Aden and then reported on the leak of his athlete’s biological passport by the Russian hackers Fancy Bears, had an agenda against him.
“There’s nothing else to be said,” he said. “Sometimes I find it bizarre how certain people write certain things to suit how they want to sell the story. You guys get to me – you never write the facts. The fact is, over the years, I have achieved a lot through hard work and pain.
“So many times, you guys have been unfair to me. I know that. But say it how it is. I want you to write the truth about what’s out there and educate people out there. But be honest with them. If you say Mo Farah has done something wrong‚ prove it.”
Farah refused to say whether he would be coached by Salazar next year when he tackles the formidable challenge of the marathon. But he admitted he was sad to leave the track after so many glittering successes.
“It has definitely hit me,” he said. “I got emotional on Saturday night. All good things in life must come to an end at some point. What goes up must come back down. I wanted to end on a high. But it happens. The better man won on the day. That’s part of athletics. Fair credit to the other guys to be able to go. They had three guys in the team – they said ‘one of you won’t get a medal’. To beat Mo, it’s taken them six years to do it but you’ve got to give it to them.”
He also conceded that stepping up to 26.2 miles would not be easy. “No one is going to give it to me. The roads are a whole new game. I’ve got to learn it and understand my weakness. It’s going to take a while to understand the marathon.”
Farah also insisted that he was open to the idea of helping the next generation of British distance runners. “It’s important that we get into the sport and help others,” he said. “Christine Ohuruogu has been helping out with the relay and will continue to leave a legacy behind.
“It’s about not thinking selfishly, not thinking financially. If we love the sport, you try to help others and I believe the knowledge and what I’ve learned over the years, I can contribute towards the younger kids and make a difference.
“You see Kyle Langford, Laura Muir, the relay boys – there are a lot of youngsters coming through,” he added. “I think we can make a difference.”
There’s a bee in my bonnet; about football and the fortunes currently flooding the top levels of the game. For my sins, I was brought up to follow Manchester United and occasionally I bore people by telling them this: when I first started going to Old Trafford, in the early 1950s, if I got the right buses to Old Trafford on match days, Roger Byrne, who played left back for United and England, would be on the same bus. We both lived in down-at-heel Gorton, east Manchester, before Roger and his family upgraded to a council house in posh Burnage. He was my first hero. I could relate to him, along with the rest of the Busby Babes who perished with Roger at Munich.
After several decades on the road, as it were, I moved back to Gorton 17 years ago. These days, I have new heroes in the game, having given up on the excesses of the Premier League a while back. I know times change, and I wouldn’t expect to share the same bus as the current football stars, but it would be nice to think we shared the same planet.
My current football idols are the men and women who give up their time to run clubs at the grassroots. Men like the secretary of Reddish North End, the club where two of my grandsons play. Terry, though retired, currently works a seven-day week, registering the players of the 36 junior teams who wear the club shirt. He and three other volunteers work their socks off to keep the club running smoothly and provide a terrific focal point for the 400 or so kids who benefit from their time and toil.
Yet disgracefully, when the likes of Manchester United and City spend tens of millions on players, who then earn hundreds of thousands in weekly wages, Reddish don’t get a penny from the Premier League or the FA. They rely entirely on subscriptions and local sponsors. (So if anyone can spare £500 to sponsor a team for two years, please get in touch.)
On the estate where I live now, the kids are still all football daft. But again, shamefully, there are fewer public playing fields in the area now than when I was a nipper. The kids are off school, but very few of them actually go on holiday. So for them, summer in the city means playing in the streets from dawn until dusk. And though they swear allegiance to United and City, they are unlikely to be able to afford to go to a game. Although my family was poor, I managed to find the one shilling and sixpence that got me into Old Trafford when I was their age.
Gorton was once at the very hub of Manchester’s industrial wheel where, in my childhood, thousands of skilled engineers plied their trade. All gone, of course, and employment-wise, the area is now a wasteland. But the joy of my patch lies in its close proximity to the Peak District, once coined the lungs of the industrial north. On a good day, I can be on the edge of the Dark Peak in under half an hour.
Where I live, the kids are still all football daft. But there are fewer public playing fields than when I was a nipper
I had a long hike up there last week, starting from the old quarry on Kinder Road in Hayfield. And as always, when setting off, I paid silent homage to some more of my heroes, those who took part in the mass trespass on Kinder Scout in 1932. The five ringleaders went to prison, for daring to tread on land owned by the Duke of Devonshire and barred to the masses, so that his grace and other nobs could shoot grouse for a few days each August. Three weeks after the protest, 10,000 men and women marched in nearby Castleton and that mass action led, in 1951, to the creation of the first national park, the Peak District being the first. Because of them, me and the rest of the lower orders are allowed to breathe in that fresh, clean and free air.
In my book, compared to the likes of Benny Rothman, who led the Kinder Scout protest and the stalwarts of Reddish North End, the pampered prima donnas of the Premier League don’t rate a mention.
• Eric Allison is the Guardian’s prison correspondent
A police officer has been taken to hospital and children as young as 10 were injured in a brawl after a football match in Middlesbrough.
Police said 200 football fans fought in a coach park outside the Riverside stadium following the Middlesbrough v Sheffield United game on Saturday.
Disorder began just before the final whistle when Sheffield United fans invaded the pitch after their team had a last-minute equaliser disallowed. Violence continued outside the ground, leaving children “terrified”.
Five people have been arrested on suspicion of a number of offences and are in police custody. Cleveland police said they expected to make more arrests as the investigation unfolded.
ACC Jason Harwin said: “We will absolutely not tolerate violence of this nature and we will work to identify the offenders and bring them to justice.
“The vast majority of fans accept that football is a family game, watched by children, parents and grandparents. It’s terrifying for children to witness such violence, or be innocently embroiled in it as their parents frantically try to keep them safe. Unfortunately a small minority of people behave in a manner which puts innocent fans at risk,” he said.
Middlesbrough won the Championship game 1-0 with a first-half goal from Rudy Gestede.
The latest Home Office statistics on football-related arrests showed a 1% increase in the 2015 to 2016 season, the first rise in three years. However, the number of arrests still represented a decrease of 20% since the 2011 to 2012 season – 4.8 arrests per 100,000 attendees.
The data, published in November 2016, showed that of the 1,895 arrests in the 2015-16 season, a quarter were made in connection with Championship matches. It was the first time in five seasons that Premier League matches did not experience the highest proportion of football-related arrests (23%).
The first sight of Usain Bolt at these championships coincided with Justin Gatlin leaving the track after winning his 100m heat. Suddenly the boos for the pantomime villain – a twice convicted drugs cheat – dissolved, replaced by cheers of ‘Bolt, Bolt, Bolt’.
The Jamaican wanted to sign off with one final 100m title to add to his 11 world and eight Olympic golds but admitted he needed to repair his relationship with the blocks.
It was very bad, I stumbled out of the blocks, I’m not fond of them, I have to get my start together.
Urged on by a delirious 56,000 crowd, Mo Farah found his familiar full-throttled sprint finish to claim another 10,000m world championship gold medal in 26min 49.51sec – his fastest time for six years – with Ugandan Joshua Cheptegei second and Kenyan Tanui third.
I knew it would be tough and I had to believe in my sprint finish. But it was one of the toughest races of my life.
Katarina Johnson-Thompson finished fifth in the heptathlon, having to all intents bid farewell to her medal hopes with her collapse in the high jump. Afterwards she was close to tears but insisted it was a ‘freak’ failure in the high jump rather than psychological frailty that proved her undoing.
The Belgian Olympic champion, Nafi Thiam, was a model of consistency, winning with 6,784 points ahead of Germany’s Carolin Schäfer and Anouk Vetter of the Netherlands.
I feel like I’m at ease with the high jump and it’s just a freak accident.
As a full moon rose over the London Stadium last Sunday, athletics’ greatest pantomime villain, Justin Gatlin, sank his teeth into the carefully laid plans for Usain Bolt’s retirement party. And then, in the last desperate steps of a compelling world championships 100m final, brutally ripped them apart. The 35-year-old American, who was banned twice early in his career for doping offences, is not necessarily the champion the sport wants. But given its problems, it is one that many will feel it deserves.
We’re rivals on the track but in the warm-down, we were joking with each other. He said: ‘Congratulations.’ And said: ‘You don’t deserve all these boos.’ I thank him for that and for inspiring me.
Kenya’s Geoffrey Kipkorir Kirui prevailed in a compelling east African duel with Ethiopian Tamirat Tola on the streets of London to win the men’s marathon.
In a stadium at 56,000 capacity Great Britain’s Sophie Hitchon looked to be in the loneliest place in the world after failing to win a medal in the hammer. The 26-year-old crouched beside the advertising hoardings at the far edge of the track, teary-eyed and staring into the distance, contemplating what might have been. Laura Muir was also close to tears after missing out on a world championship 1500m medal by seven hundredths of a second to South Africa’s Caster Semenya. Muir had led for much of the race but ran out of gas down the home straight and was beaten to bronze by Semenya, the Olympic 800m champion. South Africa’s Semenya later attempted to shut down debate over hyperandrogenism, the medical condition she has which is characterised by excessive levels of male sex hormones such as testosterone.
I’m going to beat myself up for a while after this. That’s part of my personality and probably most athletes are the same, but maybe it just comes out in me a little bit more. I think it’s the pressure I put on myself to produce my best and I didn’t do that.
South Africa’s Wayde van Niekerk said he felt upset and disrespected by his rival Isaac Makwala who suggested he was part of a conspiracy that saw the Botswana athlete excluded from the 400m final. The usually calm Van Niekerk was visibly tearful and angry, speaking after taking 200m silver behind the shock victor, Ramil Guliyev of Turkey. He dismissed Makwala’s assertion that athletics’ world governing body, the IAAF, had unfairly quarantined him with a sickness bug to pave the way for Van Niekerk to take 400m gold.
We fought all day for the truth to come out. I still maintain I have never been sick and not tested by any doctor. I am heartbroken. I feel like it is sabotage.
The better man won on the day but I gave it my all. I didn’t have anything left at the end.
Block by block the crowd inside the London Stadium rose like an advancing Mexican wave as Mo Farah sprinted past in pursuit of the Ethiopian duo ahead in the 5,000m final. So often they have seen him win from this position but after 10 straight global titles and four double golds, finally, he could not find a way.
Body heaving with adrenaline and emotion, he curled into the foetal position at the finish, beaten in a major final for the first time in six years. Silver on this occasion stung like defeat and salt was rubbed into open wounds by his conqueror, Muktar Edris of Ethiopia, performing the iconic Mobot at the finish.
The cheers have surely not been louder all world championships. But, dramatically and unexpectedly, this time they were not for Usain Bolt, who ended the final race of his career face down on the track and with his hamstring blown. Instead they rang loud and true for the young British athlete Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake, who held off the American Christian Coleman to take the home nation’s second gold medal of the championships in a dramatic men’s 4x100m relay final.
This has been a world championships where many of the sport’s biggest stars have been knocked off their perch. Bolt. Mo Farah. Kendra Harrison. Wayde van Niekerk. All have felt the jolting sting of a rare defeat. Yet no one expected this. The Jamaican men’s 4x100m relay team knew they were one of sport’s great bankers, having not lost a global relay on the track since Osaka in 2007. Not this time.
They were holding us too long in the call room. Usain was really cold. In fact Usain said to me: ‘Yohan, I think this is crazy. Forty minutes and two medal presentations before our run.’
This is how it ends then, with Usain Bolt face down on the track, 10 metres out from the finish line. Just when you wondered whether Bolt was going to accelerate counter-clockwise around the earth to reverse time, or announce that he had to return to his home planet and then fly off into the night sky, or disappear with the princess into the happily-ever-after, all the dragons dead behind him, he gave us a last reminder that he’s only human after all. His hamstring went before he’d made it halfway home. He slowed to a halt while the field sped past him, then stumbled into a roll. It meant he crossed the line alone, and last. His first world championship final, in the 200m in 2005, finished the very same way.
After the race, Bolt’s three Jamaican team-mates all spoke about how long they had been made to wait in the call room before the race. Yohan Blake, Bolt’s friend and training partner, was furious, Omar McLeod distraught. “Ridiculous” was the word he used. After all the buildup, the International Assocation of Athletics Federations somehow managed to bungle Bolt’s farewell to the sport. The relay runners were made to wait 45 minutes backstage, while everyone in the stadium sat through the medal ceremonies and anthems for the men’s 5,000m and the women’s high jump. At this point, you wouldn’t trust the IAAF’s officials to fire a start gun without shooting themselves in the foot.
Part of the reason Bolt was made to wait so long was because Mo Farah was busy making his own farewell. The organisers had made a video montage of Farah’s greatest moments, intercut with a series of tributes from little kids, which they played on the big screens after the 5,000m was over. Farah, utterly spent after his desperate sprint to the line, seemed too busy sucking in fresh air to be moved by it. And for everyone else the effect was spoiled by the fact that Muktar Edris, who had dipped his hands to his head in imitation of Farah’s usual celebrations when he won the race, was dancing a merry jig up by the finish line at the time.
Still, Farah will be back, it’s just that next season he won’t be on the track because he’ll be on the road instead. But’s he’s running again in Birmingham on 20 August. Bolt had said he might run another race or two this season as well. But he’ll have to scrap that now. He’s gone for good. The IAAF has seen to that. Or at least, he will be come Monday. The IAAF has arranged a “special presentation” for him here on Sunday night, when he’ll get one last victory lap of the track, and, presumably, some profound apologies too. No doubt they’ll have a montage ready. But it won’t be a patch on the one that started playing in the memory the minute Bolt stepped out on to the track.
That first Saturday night in the Bird’s Nest in Beijing, when he spread his arms and seemed almost to stop to look around while he was 20 metres from the line, the giddy exhilaration that followed the first look at the clock stopped on 9.69sec. Then the 200m final days later, when Bolt dipped for the line, even though there was no one near him. He wasn’t competing against the field, but Michael Johnson’s untouchable world record. He turned 22 the next day, but was mischievous as a kid, and cheerfully admitted he’d eaten chicken nuggets for breakfast, lunch and dinner 10 days in a row.
Then August in Berlin a year later, when Bolt broke both his own records, so fast now that he stretched the outer limits of possibility, as if we had to draw new maps to reflect our understanding of how far, and how fast, human beings can go. Or Daegu in 2011, when we finally saw him flustered. He was disqualified for a false start. It was the only way anyone was going to beat him. At the London Olympics a year later, he had a real rival, Yohan Blake. At least, that’s what we told ourselves before the Games.
A fortnight later, when Bolt crossed the line first in the 200m, he held his finger to his lips, admonishing everyone who doubted him. Then he dropped to the track and started doing push-ups while Dizzee Rascal’s Bonkers blasted out over the stadium PA. It was the iconic image of his Games. Well, that and the selfie he posted with the Swedish women’s handball team at 3am in his hotel room the night after he won the 100m. “I’m now a legend,” he said that night, “I’m also the greatest athlete to live.” Who was going to argue? Justin Gatlin tried. He spent the next three years coming for Bolt, in Moscow and then again in Beijing. But he didn’t catch him.
In 2016, there was the triple-triple, his third set of three Olympic gold medals and that photo of him cocking his head to shoot a grin at the camera as he finished his 100m semi-final, the roadrunner taunting seven coyotes. And then last Saturday, when Gatlin finally beat him in a big race. And even that, in its bittersweet way, burnished his legend. Bolt could have quit in 2016. He had no reason to be at these world championships. He had nothing left to prove, and nothing left to win, but he came anyway, to put it all on the line one last time. He was willing to gamble, and he lost, twice. There’s something to admire in that, too. Truth is, the IAAF doesn’t deserve him, and never did.
A dab of make-up cannot conceal the black eye Joe Hart is sporting as he walks into West Ham United’s press room and the topic is swiftly raised: have pre-season preparations at Rush Green taken an unsavoury turn? “Yeah, the induction was to have a fight with Andy [Carroll],” is the retort before the less sensational truth, that he had received a ball to the face while spreading to make a save, follows with appropriate haste.
If Hart had taken a punch he would probably have rolled with it. He will start his loan club’s opener at Old Trafford this afternoon, a year to the day since his absence from Pep Guardiola’s lineup against Sunderland made it abundantly clear that there would be little hope of a future under the current Manchester City regime, and he does not hide the fact his situation is imperfect. Last season’s hurriedly arranged spell at Torino was a means to an end; this summer, at 30 years old, he would have preferred to set down roots than be lent for another 12 months. City would have sold him for £25m but no bid was forthcoming; some players might have sulked but Hart is a pragmatist and, besides, the stakes were too high in a World Cup year. He took the temporary move that offered “the highest standard possible” and the challenge in east London was one he welcomed.
“I think a permanent move was always going to be difficult,” he says. “I don’t think there were too many options for that, if any. That would have been my ideal situation. I’ve always answered questions honestly, and ideally I wanted to be signing a permanent deal somewhere so I could set my life up and have a direction.
“But that wasn’t to be and West Ham have been absolutely fantastic towards me. I can’t be any more grateful to Slaven [Bilic], Mr Gold and Mr Sullivan for coming and making clear that they wanted me to be here, and I’m over the moon to be a part of this club. There wasn’t an awful lot of movement goalkeeper-wise this summer so I’m very thankful to get this opportunity.”
Hart describes the circumstances behind his move as “business” more than once and makes it clear that he did not want to sit on his £4.5m salary at City. “Not everyone in football wants to play football,” he says. “When you become a professional footballer there’s no written contract that says you have to strive to play first-team football. It’s a job at the end of the day but there are a lot of us, myself included, that just love playing football. If I can’t play for my club, and logistics and business mean I can’t be bought or sold but someone’s willing to play me elsewhere, then of course it needs to happen.”
There is no outward resentment towards City although there is equally no indication their goalkeeping travails since his departure for Italy – which have taken in unsuccessful experiments with Claudio Bravo and Willy Cabellero and will, for now at least, settle on the new signing, Ederson – do not puzzle him.
“That’s their problem,” he says of a position that Guardiola has found more difficult to fill than might have been anticipated. “I need to look after myself. I need to be selfish in this situation. My feelings towards Manchester City will never change; I’m eternally grateful to them as a football club. They took me as a 19-year-old boy from Shrewsbury Town, took somewhat of a punt on me and I’ve had some fantastic times. The fans have been so supportive of me, even in the past year, and that’s something that will never die for me.
“But as far as the business side goes, with new managers and opinions, it’s unfortunately football and you’ve just got to take it on the chin. There’s no point in taking it too personally because it’s not all about me. The game moves quickly and you’ve got two choices: you can moan about it, make smart comments and try to work out why it was done or you can just try and get on with it. I’ve taken the latter.”
Similarly there is no direct rebuttal of Guardiola’s view, never publicly expressed but widely held to have crystallised in the buildup to 2016-17, that Hart’s ability to build play from the back was inadequate for his requirements. The implication that he fared perfectly well with a comparable approach in Serie A is clear enough, though, as is the sense he does not consider this a politic time to offer more on the matter.
“I feel I can adapt to what my manager wants,” he says. “It was what Sinisa Mihajlovic wanted [at Torino] last year and I felt like I could do what he asked me to, and at the moment I feel capable of doing what Slaven is asking me to do. It’s the same when I’ve been with England and any manager I’ve played under. I’ve felt comfortable that I can achieve what they’ve asked.”
Hart has the confidence of Gareth Southgate, whose keenness to communicate with his national team players goes down well. The pair have spoken during the summer and Hart was assured West Ham would be an appropriate destination. He remained Southgate’s first choice last season despite the upheaval he had undergone; one imagines it would take a severe downturn for Jack Butland, Fraser Forster or Tom Heaton – whose performances for Burnley last season he describes as “a miracle” – to dislodge him and he hopes a place at Russia 2018 will be a natural consequence of domestic success.
“I want to be an England goalkeeper playing for West Ham, I really do, and that’s my intention,” he says. “It’s a privileged position to play for the country and every single time I put on that No1 jersey for England I’m very proud and excited for what comes with it.”
He will not wear that number for West Ham – “I didn’t feel it was right to take the No1 shirt; I’m currently on loan at West Ham, and I’ve enjoyed a lot of good times in the No25 shirt” – and if star billing is unimportant, then there are others in the squad who can take that mantle. Pablo Zabaleta, his former team-mate at City, was a familiar face when Hart arrived and is “like a brother” to him; more eye-catching still is the arrival of Javier Hernández, whom he once knew as a cross-Manchester rival and he now believes can give the club a spearhead they have long needed.
“I’ve loved his intensity, I’ve loved his professionalism, it’s been great to meet the man and realise he’s the real deal,” he says. The new concentration of title-winning experience – Hart, Zabaleta and Hernández have two apiece – in West Ham’s dressing room should help a side that too often seemed directionless last season. European football is the target.
“I come here with really high demands of my team-mates because I demand a lot of myself,” he says. “I’m here to win games, I’m here to try and help, I’m here to learn. If everyone’s got a similar sort of mind-set we’ve got a dangerous squad.”
It is not a stretch to conclude that the last year bruised Hart rather more than that shiner to his right eye but he is keen to ensure the marks show only faintly. Today will bring boos from the Manchester United support, as always, and the biggest significance will be that it means business as usual.
“Sometimes you have to take a few things on the chin, dig in and work,” he says. “But working hard isn’t a problem for me, digging deep isn’t a problem. That’s who I am and it’s what I’ll continue doing until my body won’t let me.”
Jamaica’s 4x100m relay team have blamed organisers for causing the dramatic moment when Usain Bolt fell to the track in his final race – because they believe their “crazy” decision to keep everybody in a freezing call room for more than 40 minutes led to Bolt getting cold.
As Britain’s quartet celebrated a shock gold medal, the Jamaican Yohan Blake, who passed the baton to Bolt, said he was furious at what had happened. “They were holding us too long in the call room,” he said. “Usain was really cold. In fact Usain said to me: ‘Yohan, I think this is crazy. Forty minutes and two medal presentations before our run.’
“We keep warming up and waiting, then warming up and waiting. Then we saw a true legend, a true champion go out there and struggling like that.”
Bolt picked up the baton on the final leg with Jamaica in third place but he barely made it halfway down the track before beginning hopping in agony then collapsing to the floor with cramp in his left hamstring.
Omar McLeod, who led off the Jamaican team, said: “It’s heart-wrenching, I gave it my all and I really wanted Usain to leave golden – even if it was just a medal. It was really heart-wrenching. I couldn’t believe it, I’m in shock, utter disbelief.
“It was ridiculous,” he added. “We were there around 45 minutes waiting outside, I think they had three medal ceremonies before we went out so we were really trying our hardest to stay warm and keep upbeat. But it was ridiculous. We waited a really long time.”
His team-mate Julian Forte was also shocked. “I felt like it happened to me, I was on the corner at the time when it happened, it’s devastating,” he said.
Britain’s men set a national record of 37.47sec to take gold, with the United States second in 37.52 and Japan third in 38.04. Adam Gemili, who proved his fitness beyond doubt after being controversially left out of the individual 200m, called it “the best feeling in the world”.
Graham Gooch’s specialist subject is West Indian pace bowling. He is probably the leading authority on what it was like to face the four horsemen of the apocalypse. From 1980 to 1995, when the West Indies dominated Test cricket, nobody scored more runs against them than Gooch, and only Allan Border faced more deliveries. Gooch also played the greatest innings of all time, 154 not out at Headingley in 1991. It is worth listening, then, when he says that only once in his career did he feel unsafe: Friday 21 February 1986 at Sabina Park, the first day of a much anticipated series, and the start of a weekend festival of chin music.
England had a bespoke batting line-up full of men who didn’t understand the concept of pain, yet they were still brutalised inside three days. It was horror bingo: they had to contend with a corrugated pitch, a low sightscreen, an umpire with a laissez-faire attitude towards bouncers and the volcanic pace of the debutant Patrick Patterson. “It was the first time,” said Gooch, “I’d ever really got the whiff of danger in the nostrils.”
That smell wafted around the ground, all the way to the press box. The Times’ John Woodcock wrote that he thought somebody might be killed. Wisden Cricket Monthly said it was “cricket’s equivalent to the Somme”. The match was not televised because of a financial dispute between the BBC and the West Indies Cricket Board. You won’t find it on YouTube; you can’t buy it on a dodgy NTSC DVD from some bloke in Canada. It’s the last England Test match of which there is no footage. That’s both a shame, because we’ll never see it, and a blessing, because we’ll never see it. It could never be as vivid or as terrifying as it is in the imagination. The lack of footage makes it an almost mythical nightmare.
Five months earlier, it was the West Indies who were “quaking in their boots”. That was David Gower’s flippant comment on the Oval balcony after his England side regained the Ashes with consecutive innings victories. The 3-1 defeat of Australia followed a fine 2-1 win in India, and for many jumping to conclusions became irresistible – the trip to the Caribbean would decide which was the best team in the world. Even the experts thought England had an outside chance. At the start of the tour, the Guardian cricket correspondent Matthew Engel reflected the mood when he said “2-1 to the West Indies might be a reasonable guestimate”.
It was only 18 months since the West Indies had won 5-0 in England, but the common perception was that they had aged and England had matured. The argument for England said they had the best batting line-up in the world (in 1985 they averaged a whopping 52 runs per wicket, miles clear of everyone else), and the best spin-bowling attack too. (Two Tests were to be played at Trinidad, which usually took spin.)
They had also picked three fast-bowling specialists: the batsmen David Smith and Peter Willey, two men who dark alleys were afraid to have walk down them, and the Glamorgan bowler Greg Thomas, often described as the fastest white bowler in the world. They had a solid seam attack and Ian Botham – who had bowled faster than ever during the Ashes – was overdue against the West Indies. By contrast, the Windies had an inexperienced captain in Viv Richards, and an ageing team with six regulars in their thirties. In 1985, they had even lost a Test match.
The main concern at the start of the tour was that England’s warm-up schedule – three first-class matches and an ODI before the first Test – would not be enough preparation. It turned out to be quite enough, thank you. In that time, morale, optimism and Mike Gatting’s nose all suffered enormous external and internal damage. A three-day pounding in the first Test at Sabina Park finished England off. It was the first time in history a team went 5-0 down after one Test.
England’s pre-series problems ranged from dreadful net facilities to politics, with four of the squad having been on the rebel tour of South Africa four years earlier. It was a particularly difficult time for Gower. His mother died just before the team flew out, a bereavement that was even tougher than usual for an only child whose father had died when he was younger, and whose long-term relationship was starting to break down. He and Botham, who had completed his first 1,000-mile charity walk at the end of 1985, were rested from the opening match and were on a yacht supping beers while England were being spun out for 94 by the Windward Islands, the only team in the Shell Shield with no West Indian cricketers. England lost by seven wickets and there were many pious editorials about Gower’s absence, some of them from people who regularly got pissed on the job, never mind off it.
Much of the media coverage had a freestyle approach to empathy and honesty. This was the height of the tabloid war, and as the tour went on Botham became so paranoid that he hardly left his hotel room in the evening. Allegations ranged from the England players leaving broken glass on a hotel tennis court to Botham and Lindy Field, a former Miss Barbados, and unproven accusations of breaking a bed during a night of sex and snort. When Gower sat down for a press conference before the one-day series, he was asked matter-of-factly whether his poor personal form was due to his affair with Paul Downton’s wife. Downton was England’s first-choice wicketkeeper, so it would have been some story were it true. The evidence of Gower’s affair was a picture of him kissing Mrs Downton on the cheek, at her wedding.
“There was one bloke in particular – a freelance hitman – sending back the most remarkable crap,” said Gower in his autobiography. The sports writers, alas, had to send back a couple of stories of the most remarkable crap too. After that embarrassing defeat to the Windward Islands, England got another touch of the nervous 94s in their next game. They played superbly for three and a half days against the Leeward Islands, then made a desperate mess of chasing 116 to win. They finished on 94 for eight with Sir Richie Richardson, the great West Indies No3 batsman, taking five for 40. He had never taken a first-class wicket in his life.
And so to Jamaica, where England faced three games in a fortnight. The first, a tour match, was won impressively by 158 runs, though Gower’s poor form continued after a comprehensive working-over from Courtney Walsh, during which he was hit on the hand, helmet and forearm. Walsh couldn’t even get in the West Indies squad for the first Test. Patterson, picked ahead of him, was omitted from the tour match so that England would not get a look at him.
They didn’t get much sight of him when he did play. The low sightscreen in front of the George Headley Stand made it difficult to see the ball properly when it was released by anybody over six foot. After problems in the tour match, England requested that it be raised for the upcoming ODI and Test. They were told this would not be possible, as it would impair the view of a few hundred spectators who had already bought tickets. “It was a comforting thought, humming ‘Hail Marys’ to yourself as Patterson’s arm whirled over from a point comfortably off the radar, that someone had a good view,” said Gower later.
Patterson was selected for the first ODI a few days later. He had been in deadly form during the Shell Shield season, splattering Guyana for 41 on the opening day of the season with figures of seven for 24. In the next game he and Walsh routed the Leeward Islands – whose team included Richardson and Richards – for 77. Patterson also left the Leewards’ opener Luther Kelly a little dentally challenged when a bouncer took out two front teeth. England struggled to reconcile the scare stories with the Patterson they knew. Most of them had played against him the previous summer when he was at Lancashire. He was sharp and raw, but so were tens of other West Indian fast bowlers waiting for a chance in international cricket.
Patterson had an upset stomach on his ODI debut, yet bowled with good pace to dismiss Tim Robinson and Gower for four-ball ducks. Marshall, the world’s best bowler, came on second-change; it felt like a sick joke to demonstrate the depth of the West Indies’ fast-bowling resources. Gatting, who had been England’s best batsman in the warm-up games, tried to hook a ball that skidded off the grassy pitch and squashed his nose. Like most of the England batsmen, he preferred a lighter, clearer helmet with no protective visor or bars.
Gatting’s hideous injury produced some famous photographs. “He looked like a panda,” says Smith, who would make his Test debut a few days later because of Gatting’s injury. “There are times when you can’t think of anything to say. I remember walking into the physio’s room, where he was sitting on the bench, and I said, ‘Are you all right Gatt?’ It was pretty obvious, with two black eyes and a hole in his nose, that he wasn’t all right!”
When Marshall prepared to bowl the next delivery, he found a piece of Gatting’s nose in the ball and threw it down in disgust. After a few days of waiting for the swelling to subside, during which he suffered severe breathing difficulties, Gatting returned to England for surgery. (His replacement was the Middlesex opener Wilf Slack. England had gone to the Caribbean with no back-up opener, which was like going to Mars without a spare oxygen tank. There was even talk that Geoffrey Boycott, at the age of 45, would take Gatting’s place.) When Gatting arrived at Heathrow, he was asked by a journalist where exactly the ball had hit him.
“The optimism of summer has evaporated,” wrote Engel on the eve of the first Test, “to be replaced by awe at the West Indians’ continuing fast bowling strength and apprehension about the way they will use it.” England, decent outsiders when they flew out a month earlier, were now 16/1 to win the first Test.
England’s preparation was so thorough that even Botham, who was allergic to nets, had two long sessions with a futuristic new bowling machine called Fred. (“It looked,” wrote Engel, “like a cartoon Martian.”) The match was not televised, with the BBC loath to pay a reported £300,000 to cover the tour. They and ITN objected so strongly to being asked to pay £500 a day for highlights during their news bulletins that they issued a joint statement criticising the practice of charging for news feeds.
A deal was agreed for the remainder of the tour, with the BBC showing highlights on Sportsnight and Grandstand. This film gives a flavour of what England’s batsmen had to face, though none of it is from Sabina Park. The BBC chose to broadcast only the morning session of each day’s play on Radio 3, deciding that their primetime audience would prefer classical music to chin music. “Presumably,” said one letter to the Guardian, “the eager sporting listener can look forward to such future treats as the opening half hour of the World Cup final, lap one of the Olympic 1,500m final and the first five rounds of Barry McGuigan’s next title defence.”
England made a perfect start to the series. It lasted 55 minutes. Gooch and Robinson, who had made a spectacular start to his Test career, batted with calm authority against Marshall and Joel Garner. It was quiet, too damn quiet. Then Patterson replaced Marshall at the Dodgy Sightscreen End, and there was instant mayhem. Robinson was caught at slip, fending off a homing missile that cut sharply off the pitch towards his face, and Gower was given the hurry up by Patterson to such an extent that he slashed his second and third deliveries for four and six over third man. He soon went to Michael Holding for an eccentric 10-ball 16.
The England dressing-room fast realised that this was not the Patterson they knew from Lancashire. “He was a shock,” said Botham in his autobiography, Don’t Tell Kath. “He was murderously quick and so raw, so full of hatred, like Colin Croft and Sylvester Clarke used to be. I expect he’s a lovely bloke off the field.” Gower confirmed as much. “He was, as with so many of those West Indian quicks, a very nice guy,” he wrote in An Endangered Species. “He called me ‘D’.”
Patterson’s ungainly style made him even more intimidating. He was all muscle and bustle, with none of Holding’s elegance and little of Marshall’s craft. He could, however, bowl faster than the lot of them. “He had a powerful action rather than an easy, lithe one,” says Thomas. “He was a bit wild but, bloody hell, he did bowl quickly.” As a batsman and umpire, Willey has seen all the great fast bowlers of the last 40 years. None left an impression quite like Patterson. “If people are bowling 90 miles an hour now,” he says, “Patterson must have been bowling 100mph in that game.” Anyone familiar with Willey will know this is certainly not inmydayism.
Patterson was gap-toothed and bow-legged, with a cruiserweight’s frame and a few distinctive features: enormous thighs on top of matchstick legs, and shot-putter’s shoulders that gave him devastating power and speed. “Patrick,” wrote the author Frances Edmonds, wife of the England spinner Phil, “has muscles in places where other man simply do not have places.”
His bowling action was a statement of the most malevolent intent. He thrust his left foot towards the batsman, spikes showing, his leg so high as to provide a rigorous test of the fabric in his trousers. Then the foot would slam down – “hard enough to measure on the Richter scale” in Mike Selvey’s words – and his body would propel forward to batter the ball into the pitch. Cricinfo’s Andrew Miller memorably described it as “a stiff-limbed, stud-slamming action like a windmill being ripped off its axis in a hurricane”.
Patterson got the ball to lift viciously off a hard, ridged pitch that started uneven and got worse. It looked like an ironic haircut: bald for the most part, with rogue tufts here and there and a big green patch in the middle - also known, in this match, as a good length. “It’s one of the worst wickets I’ve played on against bowlers of that calibre,” says Willey, whose rumbustious second-innings 71 was the highest score of the match. “It was German 88 millimetres against air pistols. We were just blasted out of it. We didn’t mind the bouncers; that’s the way cricket was. They could bowl you four or five bouncers an over and it wasn’t a bother, you learned how to play them. The trouble was the uneven bounce. If somebody’s bowls two balls in the same spot at that pace, and one goes past your neck and one goes past your ankles, you’re knackered.”
It made for arguably the scariest match England have ever played. The Bodyline series of 1932-33 was played on truer pitches, and although the abandoned Test of 1997-98 was played on another diabolical surface at Sabina Park, at least it didn’t go the distance. And Richardson, who was at both games, reckoned the 1986 pitch was worse. There was no chance of it being abandoned. “No, that was never discussed,” says Thomas. “You just played and that was it. It was the kind of thing you accepted, even if you were a tailender. It was a tough job.” These were different times for masculinity, when most batsmen would rather lose their features than lose face.
In 1986 there was no limit on the number of bouncers that could be bowled. It was left to the umpires to judge whether, in accordance with Law 42, the bowling was deliberately intimidatory. The batsmen got some protection from one umpire, David Archer. But Johnny Gayle, who was at Patterson’s end, saw nothing wrong.
England adopted a sod-this-for-a-lark approach to batting. Even though they were skittled twice, they scored their runs at 3.52 runs per over, their fastest against West Indies since 1939. The old bad-wicket mantra – get as many as you can before the pitch gets you – had a darker implication. “For the first and, I think, only time, I began saying to myself: Graham, it might be doing yourself a favour if you got out,” wrote Gooch in his autobiography. “This boy Patterson is really firing and it could get very nasty indeed. If you don’t watch it, you could be hit very badly.”
Allan Lamb’s mortality-awareness levels were also going through the roof. When he started to counter-attack successfully, Richards told Marshall to give him a “serious delivery”. Lamb enquired what that meant. Richards smiled. “It’s one that you eat, Lamby.” It wasn’t even lunchtime on the first day. Lamb spanked 49 from 67 balls before being bowled by an unplayable grubber from Garner. “I’ve usually managed to find a bit of fun in cricket, whatever the state of the game, but not that morning in Kingston,” he said in his autobiography. “I’m not saying I was keen to get out … but I fancied a change of scenery because it struck me that life can, on occasions, be more important than a cricket match.”
England were bowled out for 159 in 45.3 overs, with Patterson taking four for 30. Gooch top-scored with 51 before being caught off the splice from an unplayable Marshall lifter. It’s impossible to overstate how good Marshall was, and in 1986 he was in the middle of a five-year spell when he took 235 Test wickets at an average of 18.47.
Thomas, batting at No11 even though he had a first-class century, was needed by mid-afternoon. “During the innings I was talking to Bob Willis, who was the tour manager,” he says. “I’d been on a British Colleges trip to West Indies a couple of years earlier and, as there wasn’t that much media attention on the game, I said to him, ‘To be honest Bob, this doesn’t feel like a bloody Test match. It feels like being on tour with the lads.’
“The game went on and I went into bat. There was only one man in front of the wicket, at short square-leg. I looked round, and Jeff Dujon and the slips were miles back. Then Garner ran into bowl. I don’t remember seeing the ball, I heard a clatter – this was my first ball – and the leg stump almost reached Dujon. I walked back to the changing room and was taking my pads off when Bob tapped me on the shoulder. He said, ‘Does it feel like a Test match now?!’”
The longer the tour went on, the more England would need gallows humour.
Marshall, Holding and Garner were three all-time greats, yet it was Patterson who stood out. “If anyone has ever bowled quicker than that, well ...” said Gooch. “He was rapid, and I mean really rapid.” That view is supported by Dujon, the wicketkeeper who was chief witness to the West Indies’ reign of terror. He kept to all the greats from 1981 to 1991, and did so with such feline excellence that 95mph deliveries became much of a muchness. Every time he is interviewed, he patiently answers the inevitable question. Who was the fastest? Dujon cites two spells, both by Patterson: Sabina Park 1986 and the last day of the Boxing Day Test in 1988, when Australa unwisely provoked him and he threatened to kill them all the next day. He settled for the compromise of a matchwinning five-for. In the first over of that spell, Dujon took a short delivery and heard a scrunch. A split-second later, the pain of a broken finger reached his brain.
The strange thing about Sabina Park is that the only person who retired hurt was a West Indian batsman. Late on the first day, Gordon Greenidge hooked Botham into his own face and needed three stitches. West Indies finished the day on 85 for nought, though that particular score flattered them. Thomas could have dismissed Desmond Haynes with his first two balls in Test cricket. The first flew off the edge between first and second slip; the second was put down by Willey in the gully. He completed a spectacular over by ripping one straight past Haynes’s face.
In Thomas’s next over, Greenidge gave him what Garner called “a father’s correction”, bashing three fours. Thomas’s performance in the match led Christopher Martin-Jenkins to write in the Cricketer that “he is the real thing at last”, and though his series figures of eight wickets at 46 were modest, the sheer heat and quality of his bowling had most predicting that England’s hunt for a truly fast bowler was over – including the greatest of them all. “I could see that here was an outstanding young talent,” said Marshall in his autobiography, Marshall Arts. “He earned the respect of all our batsmen.” This being the 1980s, he played only one more Test in his career. Thomas only realised he had earned the opposition’s respect when, as the series progressed, they started to administer a few more “father’s corrections”. Being targeted by the West Indies batsmen was a strange kind of compliment.
Thomas and particularly Botham hit the green bit of the pitch with similar frequency to the West Indies bowlers. “There were overs in which Botham bowled six attempted bouncers,” wrote Woodcock in the Times. “All that did was stir up further trouble for England’s batsmen, especially with umpires who pay not the slightest attention to the law as it relates to short-pitched bowling.”
One man’s bouncer is another man’s shortish delivery. “I don’t remember anyone bowling many bouncers,” says Thomas. “It was more back-of-a-length stuff on both sides. You didn’t need to bowl bouncers on that wicket, it was flying.” One short ball from Botham was hooked for six by the debutant Carlisle Best, his first scoring stroke in Test cricket. Best famously commentated on his own innings – “You can’t bowl there to Carlisle Best” – and doubtless had plenty to say as he launched Beefy into the crowd. Amid the virility, Richard Ellison’s crafty swing bowling yielded a third five-for in as many Tests. This being the 1980s, he played only three more Tests in his career. Ellison concentrated on a different part of the body; four of his wickets were LBW, part of a then-record-equalling six in the innings. West Indies were dismissed for 307, a lead of 148.
There was also a row between Greenidge and Edmonds, who was standing intrusively close at short leg. It was an unusual occurrence in the series, despite the punishing nature of the cricket. Most were already friends from county cricket. “We all got on exceptionally well; it was excellent that way,” says Thomas. “There was no animosity, nothing whatsoever.” Both teams knew that it was nothing personal, just business. And that West Indies had an unchallengeable monopoly.
On the third morning, before play, Robinson practised with the bowling machine, Fred, on a concrete wicket. Fred could do almost anything. He could give you a 94mph bouncer or a 66mph inswinger. What he couldn’t replicate was a length delivery from the 6ft 8ins Garner that would shoot along the floor. Robinson was bowled for a duck, and Gooch followed for nought in the next over from Marshall. Robinson went to the West Indies averaging 62 per innings, thinking Test cricket was a “piece of piss”. He barely made that many in the series: 72 runs, an average of nine, and his Test career never truly recovered.
Soon it was time for Patterson’s second crack at England, a six-over spell of unprecedented menace. There are no greater compliments from no greater authorities than those he received for his speed in the second innings. In the Times, Woodcock deemed it on a par with Frank Tyson in the 1954-55, “one or two of his short ones being just about as fast as man can bowl”, while Wisden said his pace was “comparable to that of Jeff Thomson of Australia in his prime”.
One delivery cleared everyone and bounced just inside the boundary. Gower was caught at third man, placed there deliberately as a catcher two balls earlier. It was his seventh failure out of seven on the tour: his scores were 5, 9, 2, 11, 0, 16, 9. Lamb then received what Engel described as “the most extraordinary cannonade of bouncers”. His innings had more incident that most seven-hour centuries. He was at the crease for 15 balls. Lamb was hit on the helmet and the body, slapped three boundaries and was caught top-edging a hook.
He was one of three men out hooking in the innings. Botham, who had fallen that way in the first innings, landed a few haymakers in a 28-ball 29 that included two hooked sixes: one top-edged off Patterson, one off the meat from the first ball of Marshall’s spell. Marshall went straight around the wicket and bowled four more consecutive bouncers, two of which Botham walloped for four to make it 14 from the over. Marshall was stirred first by the unspoken speed contest with Patterson and then by Botham’s chutzpah. In Marshall’s next over Botham was bowled… while hooking, another victim of the uneven bounce. It was the start of another difficult tour, particularly with the bat; he averaged 16.8 with a top score of 38.
The West Indies were the one team Botham could never conquer. Willey was almost the opposite, a West Indies specialist who played 15 of his 26 Tests against them, facing the bowlers head on with his extraordinary open stance. When he went out to bat in the second innings in Jamaica, having been pushed up from No7 to No4, Willey was not exactly high on life. “I had a bit of a humour on,” he says. “It was horrible. One ball was going past your throat, one was going past your ankles. So I decided to have a swing at anything that was in the slot.” He crashed 71 from 104 balls, including nine fours and a six off Patterson. When he reached his half-century, the press box tossed impartiality out the window and stood to applaud.
Willey does not recall the low sightscreen or Patterson’s studs-up action. “I didn’t see the foot and I didn’t care what was going on behind him,” he says. “You’re just looking for that thing coming down at you.” He was in a higher state of concentration. “Sometimes, it’s not you batting. You’re in the zone. You don’t think about what you’re going to do; it just happens. There’s no time to think.
“You never thought about getting hit. It never entered your head, not even on a day like that. I put the grill on in the first innings and I got out for nought; I couldn’t see the ball. The second innings I put the side flaps on and just watched the ball. It’s like a boxer; you watch the fist. If you watch the ball, 99.9% of the time you’ll find a way to get your head out of the way. Doesn’t matter if it hits you anywhere else.”
When he was dismissed, Willey walked back to the dressing-room and was greeted by Thomas.
“Are you OK?”
“Yeah, fine, why?”
“You look about 150!”
Thomas remembers it well. “He looked like death. Honestly, he was gaunt and pale. And he’s a bloody tough character.”
The same was true of Smith. He was picked because of his ability against fast bowling, but his debut was not a good one. He made one in the first innings and nought in the second, when he batted at No7 because of sunstroke and was caught on the boundary hooking Marshall. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen anybody so angry in the changing-rooms,” laughs Thomas. “He was absolutely fuming because Marshall bounced him out, and he threw his helmet on the floor. I never thought a helmet could break into so many pieces! Nobody went anywhere near him for quite some time. Honestly, he was in a foul mood! It was quite frightening.”
When he was recalled for the fourth Test in Trinidad, Smith top-scored in both innings with 47 and 32. This being the 80s ... well, you know the rest. He missed the last match through injury and didn’t play another Test. “It gives me a lot of pride to have top-scored in both innings,” he says. “Talking about it makes me go cold because it’s the most exciting thing you can ever do on a cricket field. The thrill was in the challenge, knowing that it was the pinnacle – that you couldn’t go any higher.” Not just in 1986, but ever. Test batting will certainly never be as tough again.
“I was never scared; that never came into it. You know you’ll get hit, but you wipe that out of your head. To me it was a battle. It was like walking around in certain parts of London. I won’t start anything, but if somebody wants to have a row …”
Smith had been picked at the age of 30 after a barnstorming performance against an otherwise rampant Marshall in the County Championship the previous summer. In Trinidad he took on the West Indies to such an extent that his partner Lamb kept trying to shut him up for fear of reprisals. “Patterson hit me and he was standing next to me,” says Smith. “I told him to eff off. Leave me alone! They’re trying to kill you anyway, so whatever. You can’t wind them up anymore! I’m not a thug but I would take people on. Viv was having a few words with me so I pointed my bat at him and said, ‘If you want it as well, you can have it!’ I wouldn’t back down. It was just part of the battle. I had a huge amount of respect for the West Indian players. It was awesome to play against them.”
With the match approaching its conclusion, Edmonds was hit over the heart by an accidental beamer from Patterson. “I felt,” he said, “as if my chest had caved in.” And that was with the kind of chest protector used by jockeys to protect them from a horse’s kick. As he staggered around like a confused zombie, Edmonds dislodged the bails, and should technically have been given out. Both umpires left the decision to the other, and he was given another life.
In Another Bloody Tour, her famous book of the tour, Edmonds’ wife Frances wrote: “There is a protective bodice, a lot of very thick skin, quite a bit of excess adipose tissue and a wodge of cheque books to penetrate before anyone gets anywhere near Phil Edmonds’ heart.”
The next ball was short, straight into the hip. “The longer the match went on, the less like a civilised game of cricket it became,” wrote Woodcock. “Except on that evening of ill fame at Old Trafford in 1976, when Close and John Edrich were subjected to such a disgraceful barrage by the West Indian fast bowlers, I think I have never felt it more likely that we should see someone killed.”
Edmonds was soon the last man to fall, to give Patterson his seventh wicket of the match. “I wouldn’t say it was shit batting, we just got bowled out,” says Willey. “When you talk to some modern cricketers about the West Indies they say, ‘Ah, they weren’t that quick.’ I’d like to see them face Patterson on those wickets.”
West Indies needed five runs to complete a 10-wicket victory. England lasted 88.2 overs in the match – not eye-catching these days, but almost without precedent in 1986. It was 79 years since they had been bowled out so quickly in both innings of a Test. “Perhaps no team in history would have coped any better,” wrote Engel. “I can’t recall a Test when it was so impossible to foresee any result other than a win for one side.”
There are photos of Edmonds on a beach a few days later, with a grotesque crater just below his left nipple. The mental bruising took even longer to subside. In most mismatches there is a quick finish, a knockout blow or a couple of hours of misery. England had to stand there and take it for the best part of three months. They were getting it from their own, too, with increasingly vituperative criticism of everything from the decision to make some net sessions optional to the inability to repel the greatest bowling attack in history. “It has been very easy to abuse England on this trip,” wrote Engel. “One or two people in the press box have sounded a bit like Lord Haig, demanding from the comfort of HQ that soldiers hurl themselves against the enemy guns.”
After Jamaica, England looked like a team with a touch of PTSD. “The team talks got shorter and shorter,” laughs Thomas. “There was nothing much to talk about.” A 5-0 defeat was inevitable, and confirmed at Antigua after Richards blasted an astonishing 56-ball century. “After the first Test, the bouncers were never overdone,” said Engel. “There was no need – the batsmen had seen enough.” It was still the toughest assignment in cricket history, especially as at least three of the pitches were dodgy, and England exceeded 200 only twice in 10 innings. There was only one hundred on the entire tour, Gooch’s epic to win the second ODI. In the fourth Test at spin-friendly Trinidad, the West Indies included the off-spinner Roger Harper. He didn’t bowl a single ball.
This was the end of the West Indies’ most dominant period, one last series when they postponed the slow, decade-long transition that began when the core of their greatest team started to go over the hill. They drew their next four series, three of them away from home, and although they stuffed England 4-0 in 1988, they had gone from the greatest to merely great. The 1985-86 series was the conclusion of a four-year spell in which they won seven series in a row and had a record of 23 wins and one defeat. And the defeat was in a dead rubber.
On the first morning of the second Test in Trinidad, Patterson’s first six overs went for 54 as Gower and Lamb launched a breathless counterattack. (Scorecard aficionados will love England’s first innings.) There were 10 no-balls in that, a recurring problem in his career and an indication of how he could struggle if his rhythm was not right. He did not have a classical action to fall back on. The locals said he was never the same away from Sabina Park, too, and eventually he ended his career with 93 wickets at 30.90 from 28 Tests. He did produce some more chilling spells, particularly overseas. There was that day in Melbourne, and in 1987-88 he took five-fors in consecutive Tests in India. The dashing opener Kris Srikkanth recalled one evening in Kolkata. “I knew if I got hit by any of his deliveries, I could die on the spot,” he said in 2009. “He walked down the pitch and gave me cold stares and I felt the chill running down the spine. I survived only because of my reflexes.”
Patterson’s international career ended at the age of 31 when he was sent home from a tour of Australia for disciplinary reasons. He became a paranoid recluse, prompting wild speculation about what had happened to him. Some said he was a destitute drug addict; others that he was in an asylum. He was found last month by the Indian journalist Bharat Sundaresan, the culmination of a six-year search. The result was one of the more poignant features of the year.
In England, there was a significant moral panic over the nature of the West Indies’ domination. “The West Indies and the other members of the ICC ought to be asking themselves if this is really what they want cricket to be,” wrote Engel. Suggestions ranged from a longer pitch, a no-ball line halfway down the pitch and a ball made of rubber. The Wisden Cricket Monthly editor David Frith, lamenting “a curse both on the spirit of the game and as a spectacle”, suggested an amendment to Law 42, which eventually happened in 1991. For richer and poorer, cricket was never the same again.
The only people not complaining about the West Indies’ tactics were the England players. They were aggrieved about uneven bounce, not bouncers. “You can easily become a bit shell-shocked, and there were some quiet times in the dressing-room, but I don’t remember anybody complaining,” says Smith. “Would I want to play with any other people? No, not at all. There were some tough cookies in that team, and I was proud to be a part of it.”
England’s top scorer in the series, by some distance, was Gower, who recovered from his desperate start to hit scores of 66, 47, 66, 23, 10, 22, 90 and 21 in the last four Tests. There is more than one way to show character. In context, Gower’s 370 runs were as worthy as his 715 against Australia the previous summer. “Because he was such a languidly classical batsman, it is often ignored that David was full of guts and immense courage when the fast bowling was at its most dangerous,” said Gooch. “It was an understated courage, and would laugh it off later in the evening with a typical quip; but I knew, from the other end, how many times I was witness to his fearlessness and genuine bottle.”
You can’t dress up a 5-0 battering but you can look at it with fresh eyes. In a world that has become almost too health-and-safety conscious to function, the level of courage and skill frequently shown by the England batsmen 31 years ago is almost beyond comprehension. It remains a grisly old tale, but at least they all lived to tell it.
Greg Thomas now runs Legato Legal Services. David Smith is the manager of Lashings All Stars, whose next match is at Roe Green Cricket Club in Manchester on 17 August
When Sebastian Coe wakes up on Sunday morning he will have a 6ft 5in-shaped headache. Usain Bolt, track and field’s greatest weapon as well as its biggest crutch, has run his last race. Mo Farah is heading to the roads. And the question of how the sport can shout loud enough to be heard by casual fans without the great Jamaican or the most successful British athlete in history – or a major global championships on the horizon – will move from a theoretical to an intensely practical problem.
If Lord Coe, the president of the International Association of Athletics Federations, feels this huge weight on his shoulders, he does not show it. He believes London 2017 has highlighted a number of new stars to go alongside established big names such as Wayde van Niekerk, Allyson Felix, Kendra Harrison and Nafissatou Thiam. He just wants them to promote themselves and their sport better.
“The agents and managers are incredibly cloying,” Coe claims. “They say: ‘You don’t want to say this, you don’t want to say that,’ to their athletes. We need to be relaxed about what they say. Look at Conor McGregor, who has got my kids talking about UFC. I’m not saying people should be like him – but I want more of them to give a view on things and to show their personality. “We’ve got to encourage the athletes to be themselves. That will make the media find them more interesting and help the public to become more engaged.”
Coe adds: “Usain Bolt, for whatever reason, was probably a personality the second he walked into his classroom. You are not trying to choreograph that but I do think it is important that athletes realise they are part of the entertainment business. The reason Usain is going to be missed is not because he wins all those medals – it is because he is prepared to give a view about things. He has instincts. He is not looking either side to his handlers.”
Coe believes Christian Coleman of the USA – who has an unbeaten record against Bolt having beaten him in their 100m semi-final and final – can help fill the void. Coleman says: “I have the utmost respect for Usain Bolt when I heard that I am only the only person who is unbeaten against him, I thought: ‘That’s pretty crazy.’ When I get older, that’s something I’m going to tell my grandkids. He pushed the sport along but we have other great athletes coming forward – and hopefully one of those is me.”
Other athletes have shown their personalities at these championships, too. They include the French runner Pierre-Ambroise Bosse, whose exuberance on television having won the 800m gold earned him thousands of new fans, and the Norwegian Karsten Warholm, whose shocked face when he won the 400m hurdles showed that he was more surprised than anyone else.
Coe accepts the IAAF also has to do more to promote its sport and stars. According to preliminary research conducted by athletics’ governing body, 75% of respondents said that track and field has to change – not only in how it does things in the stadium, but how the sport is shown on TV and online.
“There’s more need for us to really demonstrate that we have some incredible talent out there,” says Coe. “If you just look at the youth which has surfaced in the championships – it’s the youngest cohort of medallists, youngest cohort of winners. We had a 21-year-old who won the 400m hurdles and the youngest ever finalists in the men’s 800m. It’s very good out there – we just have to make sure that people know that.”
One of the stars in London this week was the Greek pole vaulter Katerina Stefanidi, who delighted the crowd in dancing to Zorba the Greek after taking gold. She urged Coe to do more to talk to millennials, push field events into the centre of the area to give them more attention, and find ways to make the whole sport move a bit quicker.
“Even little things can make a difference,” she says. “It sounds silly but when I won and they played that music I got 20,000 followers on Twitter. I just wish I could dance better.”
Coe, incidentally, still believes that engaging with young people is the main challenge he faces – not doping. And he knows that Bolt, even as he heads to retirement, plays a key part. “I was chatting to him before the medal ceremony and, slightly tongue-in-cheek, he looked at me and said: ‘So what do you want me to do now, boss?’” Coe says. “And I went: ‘Anything you want to do, really.’” A more rounded answer to that question cannot come soon enough.
Born in West Philadelphia, DJ Jazzy Jeff has been spinning records since he was 10. The skills he developed in his family’s basement soon became the basis for hip-hop duo DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince. As well as winning DMC Championship and American Music awards, he was the first hip-hop artist (together with Will Smith) to win the first best rap performance Grammy for Parents Just Don’t Understand (1988). The group’s second Grammy was earned for Summertime, peaking at No 4 on the Billboard Hot 100. Since then, his work has featured in Boyz n the Hood (1991), Strange Days (1995) and Jersey Girl (2004). Will Smith and DJ Jazzy Jeff will make their first UK live performance at Livewire festival on 27 August.
Supermensch: The Legend of Shep Gordon
This is about Shep Gordon’s life as a talent manager, the things he accomplished and the people he managed, from Michael Douglas to Sylvester Stallone. It’s one of the most special documentaries I’ve ever seen – definitely a must watch. As a character, he’s very funny, with a distinctive laugh. He talks about the passion of business, which isn’t something a lot of people in the entertainment industry do, so that really stuck out. He’s kind of like a modern-day Forrest Gump: he’s done so many different things, you’re left trying to figure out how this can be one person’s life.
Jay Z: 4:44
I am absolutely in love with Jay Z’s latest album. He’s the first artist of our time to have made an adult hip-hop album. It’s very bold and daring, making music that’s not specifically for the club – not everything has to be for the club. What I like most about it is that I don’t have a favourite song – I like them all. You can almost feel that this album was made to be presented as a whole and not split up.
Mogul: The Life and Death of Chris Lighty
[Music industry executive] Chris Lighty was a friend of mine, who unfortunately took his own life. This podcast delves into some of the trials and tribulations that the music industry can put on you, the stresses, and how some people can’t handle those stresses. I felt it took a very delicate situation and handled it very carefully. They go through his life and his journey, how he got started, the different people he represented and the emotional connections he had with a lot of his artists. I didn’t know many people who didn’t like Chris Lighty; he was just a generally good guy. When he took his own life it was a shock to everybody.
The Crab Claw Restaurant, St Michaels, Maryland
I’m a massive blue crab fan and in the summer I have crabs once or twice a week. They’re pretty much from the area that I live in, from Philadelphia to Virginia. I don’t use the hammers – I’ll just break them with my hands. When I went down to St Michaels with my wife to celebrate our anniversary, we stumbled across this restaurant right beside the water. We were the only ones in there, but it was absolutely amazing. It’s a two-hour drive from my house, but if they tell me they have big crabs there I’ll get in my car and drive to get them.
The Defiant Ones, HBO
This four-part documentary looks at [Interscope Records co-founder] Jimmy Iovine and Dr Dre, their past, how they met and what they’ve done. Jimmy was learning how to be an audio engineer and realised he was a producer, while Dr Dre was making iconic records. I really enjoyed seeing how they came to sell Beats to Apple for $3bn with an incredible journey behind them. Dre and I are around the same age, so it’s like looking in the mirror – I had a personal connection. He’s pretty much hip-hop’s first billionaire and we never thought one of us could get to that level, so you really have a lot of appreciation for what he’s done.
Philadelphia 76ers
I am a massive Philadelphia fan, being from there, and I’m incredibly excited about the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team. We have been very, very bad over the past few years and it’s really hard when you’re passionate about your team. But I see a light at the end of the tunnel as I think we have probably the best young and talented team in basketball [at the moment]. There was a point when I’d go to every game and even purchased a streaming device so I could watch them when I was on tour. I didn’t use my season ticket much when they were losing, so I’m excited to go back to some games with the outlook being so bright.
Justin Bua
Justin Bua’s art is similar to Ernie Barnes’s, who did iconic Marvin Gaye artwork with very exaggerated figures. Bua does a lot of hip-hop artwork and I got a piece from him called The DJ which I thought was incredible. The structure of it and the exaggeration almosts tells a story about DJ culture. The colours are very vibrant and rich. When I look at this picture I see myself.
Australia’s Sally Pearson has capped an extraordinary comeback from injury by winning gold in the 100m hurdles at the world athletics championships.
Competing at her first major global championship since 2013 and having overcome serious wrist, hamstring and achilles injuries, Pearson powered away from the field on Saturday to win in 12.59 seconds.
Her long-time rival Dawn Harper-Nelson from the United States was second in 12.63 and Germany’s Pamela Dutkiewicz claimed the bronze in 12.72.
World record holder Kendra Harrison from the US finished out of the medals in fourth place.
“That was bloody hard,” an emotional Pearson said shortly after crossing the finish line. “I’ve worked so hard, I don’t know what has just happened out there.
“I’m so tired but I’m sure it will sink in soon.
“It’s been a long journey back from injury, but to get this moment and go and celebrate in front of my family is unreal.”
It was a third major 100m hurdles title for Pearson, who had previously won gold at the 2011 world championships in Daegu and the 2012 London Olympics.
The 30-year-old joined 400m runner Cathy Freeman and 400m hurdler Jana Pittman as the only Australians to have won two world track and field titles.
Her next challenge will be winning a third successive Commonwealth title on home soil on the Gold Coast next year.
After injury denied Pearson of the opportunity to defend her Olympic crown last year in Rio, she decided to coach herself.
It proved to be masterstroke.
She assumed favouritism for the world title by clocking the fastest semi-final time of 12.53 on Friday evening and carried that dominance into the final.
“I don’t know if it was surprise or what, but the emotion just escaped my body because I was so excited and so happy to have achieved what I have worked so hard for,” Pearson said.
“I love this stadium, I love the people and I’m so happy to have been back here doing the same thing again [winning gold].”
It was the latest instalment of the great rivalry between Pearson and Harper-Nelson, with the American having relegated the Australian into second spot at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, only for Pearson to reverse that result four years later in London.
“Me and Sally have just battled it out for years and it’s been so great to be here with her,” said 33-year-old Harper. “Silver tastes like gold tonight.
“I am really excited to come out of this with a medal for the US.
“At the end, I could see Sally had won and I thought ‘it’s me and Sally again’.”

The 99th playing of the US PGA Championship has sporting parallels. There is, for example, the grim scoreless draw that football hipsters insist is wonderfully entertaining on grounds of defensive performance. Factor in a dour five-day cricket Test that ends without a winner and a fuller picture can be drawn.
Somebody will prevail at this major – eventually – but the event has already triggered a debate. Those seeking spine-tingling entertainment need look elsewhere. On a tense third day, during which standing still was valuable to many of those in the upper echelons of the leaderboard, golf purists insisted this is what major championship play should be all about. It is, though, a hard sell. The margin between good and bad shots has at times been impossible to decipher.
To the basic particulars. Kevin Kisner’s 72 means he leads, by one, at seven under. Chris Stroud, the world No203, and Hideki Matsuyama are those closest.
The latest sign that Matsuyama may wilt under the pressure of trying to deliver a first major win for Japan arrived as he slipped to a 73. He is, though, very much part of this equation. Justin Thomas, who fell short at the US Open in June, afforded himself redemption with a 69 which moved him to five under.
Golf’s administrators probably cannot win. They would be castigated for overseeing a major setup that delivers the kind of target golf and low scores that are common on the PGA Tour. Brutal tests as delivered most commonly at the US Open have also been subject to widespread wailing. Yet surely it is feasible to have something in the middle. Quail Hollow’s treacherous greens, combined with iffy pin placements, have thus far ensured a spectacle which is unlikely to appeal to the broader masses. “On a couple of holes, it has been stretched,” said Jordan Spieth after his third round, in submitting his application to join the diplomatic corps. Exhibit A: the 1st, which did not yield a single birdie from 75 Saturday players.
Of course, whoever walks off with the Wanamaker Trophy will not give a second thought to external opinion. Kisner and Stroud are seeking what would be stunning successes given their positions in golf. The former has never recorded a major top 10. Of those in close pursuit only Louis Oosthuizen, at minus five, has a major to his name. Jason Day was in the same category before encountering comedy chaos on the 18th.
Rickie Fowler played the last three holes in four over, a 73 meaning he sits at one under. Paul Casey had a similarly dire finish, meaning a 74 for even aggregate. Patrick Reed’s 69 moved him to minus two.
Given that Spieth had forcibly insisted there would be no added pressure attached to this, a first go at a career grand slam while seeking to be the youngest player to complete it, he would not be heading for the bottom of a whisky bottle upon realisation victory would pass him by. Spieth started day three at the same figure over par and remained there, a scenario affected in no small part by an ugly double bogey at the last.
“I didn’t have it written in a diary from when I was young that I need to win a career grand slam as the youngest ever,” said Spieth of the broader picture. “That wasn’t the goal. The goal was to try and win them all. The goal was to try and get on the PGA Tour and then from there see what happens. And I will have a lot of opportunities.
“The PGA Championship I think is going to be the toughest for me. If we look historically back on my career, I think I will play this tournament worse than the other three majors just in the way that it’s set up.
“ I feel like my game truly suits the other three majors maybe more than a PGA Championship. But I believe we can play anywhere and can win anywhere. It’s just a matter of having everything in sync at the right time.”
Typically, Spieth will not lack Sunday motivation. “We could break the season into quarters,” he added. “This is the start of the fourth quarter.
“At the US Open on Sunday, I was out of it but I gathered a little something off that round that led to two wins in two tournaments after that including a major. Just one round like that can do that. That’s what I’m looking to do here.”
Rory McIlroy had probably come to terms with the year not yielding another major title even before his third round. The Northern Irishman has suffered all manner of disruptions in recent months, with a rib problem still affecting him. “I’m looking forward to 2018,” said McIlroy with a rueful smile after posting a 73. Hercule Poirot is hardly required to discover the root of the four-times major champion’s problems; 30 putts on Saturday were from a total of just 49ft.
A figure that bothered McIlroy more, and rightly, related to time. “Five hours and 20 minutes out there in that heat was a little too long for my liking,” he said. For tournament organisers to allow such a situation, let alone contribute to it, represents a gross dereliction in respect of raising this sport’s appeal. Of that there can, at least, be no doubt.
A mixed week for British athletes at these world championships in London is suddenly encased in a silver lining. Last year Britain’s talented women’s 4x100m squad took an unexpected bronze in the Olympics. Now they have an upgrade to silver. Given Asha Philip, Desirèe Henry, Dina Asher-Smith and Daryll Neita have age on their side, a global title may yet be next on the list.
True, their time of 42.12sec in the final was not among the quickest. In fact it was nearly two tenths slower than they managed in their morning heat. But they handled the pressure of a couple of rickety changeovers to finish a deserved second behind a US team spearheaded by Allyson Felix and Tori Bowie.
As Philip put it: “At first I didn’t even know where Daryll was on that final leg and I was just screaming, panicking: ‘What’s going on?’ while the crowd was just getting louder and louder. I began to panic more and then she popped out and then we got a silver medal. I’m pretty happy with that.”
It was not smoothest set of baton changes. Philip was at full stretch when she handed over to Henry, while Asher-Smith had to check her stride to get the baton on the third leg. But with the Americans’ handovers also ragged, Neita was in the hunt for first place with 80 metres to go before Bowie, winner of the individual gold, burned away to take gold in 41.82.
Said Philip: “We had a couple of precarious moments. It happens – it’s a relay. But we got it round and we got a medal so doesn’t really matter. We didn’t drop it.”
It also helped they were against a Jamaican team stripped of their biggest names – Elaine Thompson, the fastest 100m woman in the world this year, and those stalwarts Veronica Campbell-Brown and Shelly-Anne Fraser-Pryce. Still, they claimed bronze in 42.19, with Germany fourth in 42.36.
Asher-Smith was left to reflect on a topsy-turvy season that started with her breaking her foot and ended with fourth place in the 200m and her third global relay medal. “I think I’m still in like a dream phase because obviously to me I didn’t even know in February if I was even going to be here, and then suddenly when I started running again it was a bit like: ‘OK, I might not be fast enough be in the team.’ And I’ve gone from that to winning a world silver which is the highest medal that I have ever won. It’s absolutely incredible.”
There was a shock in the women’s 100m hurdles as Australia’s Sally Pearson blasted clear of the world record holder, the American Kendra Harrison, to win gold.
Pearson has fond memories of this track, having won Olympic gold at London 2012. But two years ago in Rome she suffered a wrist injury so serious she feared she would need her lower arm amputated.
Yet she was back close to her best here, leading from the gun to win in 12.59sec. The American Dawn Harper-Nielsen took silver in 12.63, while the Germany Pamela Dutkiewicz grabbed a surprise bronze 0.09 further back. Incredibly, Harrison could only run 12.74 to finish fourth.
Negotiating a way through the robust challenges of British celebrity is seldom an easeful task. Few in the public eye escape censure and even fewer manage to avoid succumbing to bitterness or the kind of acute sensitivity known only to those who have had their inner lives splashed across the outer pages of the press.
A rare exception is Gary Lineker, who returned last night for his 18th season as the Match of the Day presenter. If he has come of age in the job, the former England striker seems to have retained a boyish enthusiasm for life in the spotlight, albeit weighted with a just-so amount of irony and self-deprecation. He also holds the affection of a sizable chunk of the nation. The two are probably not unrelated.
Last month, Lineker found himself at the centre of heated debate when the BBC released figures showing that he was the corporation’s second-highest earner, with an annual salary some loose change under £1.8m.
In these days of wage freezes and belt-tightening, that’s a number that could easily trigger the kind of envy that is often indistinguishable from raging animosity. But Lineker performed a characteristically disarming manoeuvre via the social medium of Twitter. “This whole BBC salary exposure business is an absolute outrage…” he tweeted. “I mean how can @chrisevans be on more than me?”
In one half-cumbersome, half-deft move, Lineker had cleared the air, sent himself up and roped the presenter Chris Evans into the bargain. It’s the same trick he employs in his Twitter bio, which reads: “Once kicked a ball about. Now talk about kicking a ball about. Still flogging spuds”, the latter referring to his long-term and lucrative contract as the face of Walkers Crisps.
All of this ingratiating humility is in a sense not unlike his defining skill as a footballer, which was to score in or around the six-yard box while in the act of falling over.
The effect was to lend Lineker the look of a player who was not fully in control, less than poetic in his movements, but invariably decisive in his actions. Moreover, in the course of a 16-year career, he garnered not so much as a single yellow card. The ungainly finishing and lack of aggression encouraged opponents to underestimate him – at their peril.
It’s a confounding gift that has since taken him to the pinnacle of the BBC big-earner league. While detractors may focus on his mugging expressions and tortuous puns, Lineker has got on with mastering the deceptive art of TV presentation.
He learned from the master himself, Des Lynam, who used to anchor Match of the Day when Lineker started out as a slightly plodding pundit, in 1995. At that time, having just hung up his football boots, he came across as gauche and rather too keen to be liked.
But Lineker studied Lynam’s casual charm and unflustered authority, the manner in which he put others at ease, not least the audience at home. “I used to ask a lot of questions about the little things that he did,” Lineker later recalled, “and picked up some of his nuances.”
Even as a player, Lineker had his eyes on Lynam. At the 1990 World Cup, where he took special notice of how journalists went about their business, some of his teammates dubbed him “Junior Des”.
And after four years of tutelage, in 1999 he replaced his mentor. There’s now a generation of viewers for whom Lineker’s considerable exploits as a player – for England, for whom he scored more goals in World Cups than any other player, Barcelona and Spurs, among others – are little more than history book entries.
So confidently has Lineker scaled the heights of Saturday night television that his second career could be in danger of overshadowing his first. Not least because Lineker, with the help of Twitter, that armchair megaphone, is beginning to lose the sportsman’s natural avoidance of political controversy.
To his Twitter followers (now numbering almost 6.4m) he was a strong advocate for the Remain vote in the referendum, condemned the Brexit result, has been outspoken in defending refugees from scapegoating and, on something of a roll, also called Nigel Farage a “dick”.
For voicing these opinions he was characterised by some tabloids as a member of the lefty luvvie elite, with the Sun, in a moment of pantomime fulmination, going so far as to urge the BBC to sack Lineker.
But just as the provocative attentions of the likes of Vinnie Jones during his playing days failed to intimidate the mild-natured Lineker, he is not the sort of character to wail about the beastliness of the tabloid press or close down his Twitter account in a huff.
Although his views on everything from the snootiness of British golf’s governing body to the “deplorable” corruption of Fifa seem sincere, Lineker is not a man given to taking the world or himself too seriously.
There is a grounded quality, no doubt inherited from his family, hardworking stalwarts of Leicester’s vegetable market. Although it doesn’t carry too much of a satirical punch, his jaunty humour tends to recognise the fundamental injustices and absurdities of life. Of course, somewhere among those head-shaking realities is the fact that an ex-footballer is paid £1.8m for introducing football highlights and discussing matches with other ex-footballers. Without volunteering to take a wage cut, Lineker likes to make the noises of a man who is aware of the delicacy of the situation. He has stated his “total and utter support” for the BBC’s female presenters who are paid much less than him.
But he knows that sending out right-on tweets is not going to change social inequalities or the sense that he leads a privileged existence. “I understand I’m in a little bit of a bubble,” he said last year. “You get called that thing now, the elite, don’t you? I don’t know what that means… Is it because you’re doing all right in life?” Lineker, in fact, is doing more than all right. Having just missed out on the kind of football money that meant top players didn’t have to work again, he is said to be worth £30m.
If that weren’t enough, he looks in youthfully athletic shape, as if he could still take to the field, should England require him. A year ago, he shared his honed physique with the nation, having promised to present MotD in his boxer shorts if his old team Leicester won the Premier League. Again, what could have been embarrassing or silly, Lineker carried off with the aplomb with which he used to slot away penalties in shoot-outs.
Perhaps the only aspect of Lineker’s life that has seemed at odds with the Nice Guy Next Door persona was his marriage (his second) to Danielle Bux, an underwear model 18 years his junior, if only because she appeared surprisingly Wag-like for Lineker’s more waggish style.
They were divorced last year, apparently because Lineker, the father of four boys from his first marriage, felt that he was too old to become a father again. But he remains friendly and supportive, reportedly offering Bux a place to live after she became pregnant by her new partner earlier this year.
The word that comes to mind with this working-class lad from Leicester, whose final school report read: “Must devote less of his time to sport if he wants to be a success”, is “enlightened”. Unlike many footballers, who are cocooned by clubs and agents and fail to develop much curiosity about the outside world, Lineker has not settled into a self-limiting mindset.
He was one of the very few English players to move abroad in the insular 1980s, when Europe was viewed like those territories of legend on old maps that declared: “Here be dragons.” Lineker played for Barcelona, immersed himself in the local culture and quickly learned to speak good Spanish.
It was the same willingness to try new things that took him away from football. He had no wish to become a manager, like so many other former players, believing them to be “either on the brink of madness or deep depression”.
Perhaps the key to Lineker, as he once noted himself, is that he doesn’t suffer from “angst”. He really does appear to be well balanced, open to life and chirpily content to do a good job. That’s a winning combination in most circumstances, but after more than 20 years of working in television, it’s very close to a miracle.
Born 30 November 1960, the eldest son of market traders, Barry and Margaret Lineker. He attended City of Leicester Boys’ grammar school.
Best of times Winning the Golden Boot at the 1986 World Cup and coming within a whisker of the final four years later. Scoring a winning hat-trick for Barcelona against hated rivals Real Madrid. Leicester winning the Premier League in 2016, “the most joyous, magical experience of my sporting life”.
Worst of times His baby son George almost died from a rare form of leukaemia in the early 1990s.
What he says “The funny thing is I don’t regard myself as particularly liberal. I just think I’m kind of humanitarian. I’ve always been interested in politics, I’ve always followed it very closely, but I’ve never really offered my views.”
What others say “I question if the BBC should be employing him when he seems to be using his fame to push out his rather emotive and controversial views.” David TC Davies, Tory MP.
The tank has almost run dry. Mo Farah ended his last major track race with a silver medal in the 5,000m after a desperate lunge in the final few strides propelled him from fourth place to second, coming up just short in his quest for a career-capping win at the World Championships in London last night.
The 34-year-old, legs pumping as he tried to catch the leader, agony etched across his face, was beaten at a major championships for the first time in six years by Muktar Edris of Ethiopia.
Farah collapsed in disappointment, before picking himself up to jog around the track, composing himself and, occasionally, smiling for selfies and autographs with the thousands of fans in the stadium who had chanted his name and urged him on. Yet he was clearly disappointed not to end on a high.
“I thought I could get inside at the end, but my legs had had it,” he said, admitting that the 10,000m win last weekend on 4 August had taken even more out of him than in championships gone by. “London is my home and it has been fantastic to be here again. The last week or so has been incredible. I’ve really enjoyed the journey.”
Usain Bolt’s journey also ended on Saturday, albeit in even more agonising fashion as he pulled up on the anchor leg of the men’s 4x100m relay. The crowd had little time to take it in as Great Britain’s CJ Ujah, Adam Gemili, Danny Talbot and Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake ran a near-perfect race to hold off the fancied US team and take gold in the race, with Japan taking bronze as Bolt collapsed halfway down the home straight.
Farah’s final appearance in the London Stadium at a major competition seals one of the most successful careers any British athlete has ever had. Farah has won four Olympic gold medals in the 5,000m and 10,000m in London and Rio, as well as almost every major championship race at those distances since 2010. He has several other awards and was knighted earlier this year. Sir Mo is a heavyweight British icon, all nine stone of him.
His achievements are underlined by the hardship of his early life. Farah fled Mogadishu as an eight-year-old when civil war hit the Somali capital, coming to live in London with his father, Mukhtar, who was born in the UK.
Yet even when he finally hangs up his running spikes — Farah has two more appearances to make, at Diamond League races in Birmingham and Zurich — he will face one last challenge: to prove in the court of public opinion that he has never been a drugs cheat. There is no case for the prosecution against Farah himself. The taint comes from association with his coach, Alberto Salazar. The Cuban-born American has been under investigation by the United States anti-doping agency (Usada) for two years since a documentary by BBC’s Panorama and ProPublica carried allegations that he had experimented with doping and gave athletes unneeded prescription medicines.
Farah has beaten down questions for so long that he is, unsurprisingly, sick of answering them. He cannot prove his innocence, although even critical voices like Olympic bronze medal-winning heptathlete Kelly Sotherton — who believes Farah can’t be considered a “legend” due to his lack of records — say he has “full integrity” and is honest.
Part of the suspicion has come because he flourished relatively late in his career — although not as late as some middle- and long-distance runners such as Jo Pavey, who became 10,000m European champion at the age of 40, after giving birth to her second child.
Farah’s talent was spotted early enough. His PE teacher in west London, Alan Watkinson, guided him away from a possible footballing career on to the running track. The first test was a cross-country championship. “He literally didn’t know what was going on and ran in the wrong direction,” Watkinson said in 2010. “He had to follow the other kids around and he still managed to finish second.”
Farah’s promise became major success in 2001, when he won the 5,000m at the European junior athletics championships in Athens at the age of 18. Afterwards, he struggled for but won few honours and in 2008 failed to qualify for the 5,000m final at the Beijing Olympics.
His resurgence coincided with the build-up to the London Olympics, when British athletes were showered with money to ensure a bumper crop of medals in 2012. He began training with Kenya’s best runners, living with them, joining them at high-altitude training camps in Ethiopia and Kenya, and focusing harder on his career. Farah was picked as a winner, and he began to deliver. In 2010, he collected golds at the European championships in his two favourite distances, then set a 5,000m national record. A year later, he became world champion over 5,000m — the first British man to win the title. The stage was set for the London Games.
Meanwhile his personal life had also settled. In 2010 he married Tania Nell, whom he met as a student, and moved the following year to the US to work with Salazar on his Nike Oregon Project. Their twin daughters were born in the year of the London Games and Farah was one of Britain’s heroes, winning gold at the London Stadium in the 5,000m and 10,000m. He didn’t stop there. He has won every major championship race since — 13 in a row, including his dramatic 10,000m win last week.
“To have achieved what I have achieved has been incredible. I don’t think there’s enough words to explain the journey,” he said. “Yeah, it is emotional but it has been a long career. You guys have seen me since I was a child, running around, going to the English schools. To come this far has been incredible.”
Olympic Games: Four gold medals – dedicated to his children – in the 5,000m and 10,000m at London 2012 and Rio 2016.
World championships: Double gold medals in Moscow 2013 and Beijing 2015. He also won 5,000m gold and 10,000m silver in Daegu in 2011, finishing with 10,000m gold and 5,000m silver in London 2017.
European championships: Double gold medals in Zurich 2014 and Barcelona 2010 in the 10,000m and 5,000m. He also won 5,000m gold in Helsinki in 2012.
Others: European junior championships, 2001; European junior cross country, 2001; European cross country, 2006; European indoor 3,000m, 2009 and 2011; New York half marathon, 2011; New Orleans half marathon, 2013; Great North Run, 2016.
As Tom Bosworth prepares to hunt for gold on the streets of London on Sunday Britain’s most prominent gay athlete says he doubts that a top-flight English footballer will ever come out because “nothing is changing” in the game.
Bosworth, who has high hopes of a world championship medal in the men’s 20km race walk having led the Rio Olympics before finishing sixth, has been an impressive advocate for LGTB rights since coming out in 2015. However he admits that he is frustrated that some fans still create an atmosphere where footballers daren’t come out.
“There are plenty of gay footballers, there’s no doubt about that,” he said. “I can say that 100% there are, and while they are supported but they are not able to come out. I don’t know whether we will ever see an out English footballer in the current situation because nothing is changing. Something has to be done about it for somebody to feel comfortable enough to come out.”
Bosworth called on clubs to do more to root out the problem, but admitted he was shocked at how some people still felt it was acceptable to behave differently in stadiums than they would elsewhere. “These are your bosses, these are your friends,” he said. “These are still human beings going to a football match. But what is it about that environment that makes them feel so comfortable – too comfortable – in saying things that they would never dream of saying in the work place or down the pub? They wouldn’t hurl abuse or those comments anywhere, yet people free to put it on social media behind a screen and do it in a stadium.”
Bosworth said that he had met with the Football Association chairman Greg Clarke, who had told him about the things they were doing – including a text scheme in stadiums where fans can text in if they hear any abuse with the seat number. But he urged fans to think before they sang homophobic chants. “Stop a second,” he said. “Would you do this to your colleague? Would you say that in the workplace? You would lose your job immediately.”
When Bosworth came out in October 2015 he insisted that he did not want being defined by his sexuality, or for it to change him. However, with two years’ distance, he now believes it has helped him became a better athlete. “2016 and 2017 have been two incredible seasons for me, so maybe it did have a huge impact on my life,” he said. “Because I could be 100% me without any concerns.”
There was no better evidence of Bosworth’s form than in Rio, when he took the lead after 4km and led until after halfway. But, surprisingly, he confesses that at no point did he think he was going to win, medal, or even finish in the top 10. “The only reason I took the lead was because I was sticking to my plan. It just happened that my form at that point had taken me to being at the front of races, not in the middle of the pack. I just loved every moment of that race – absolutely loved it. I wish I had gone into that race knowing how good form I was in.
His strategy this year will be entirely different. He intends to stay ensconced within the pack until as late as possible before producing the speed that took him to the one-mile world record of 5 mins 31.08 sec last month. “ It is important to remember a mile is not 20k, but look at Mo Farah, who has a British record at 1500m and is running 10,000m. But it’s good to have that range. So I’ll be letting other people do the work – I know that off my shorter distances I know I can go quick.
There is another change he has noticed. His rivals see him as a threat too. “I heard one rumour from a medallist in Rio who said they are concerned about me the most,” he says, smiling. “That is a nice compliment to hear.”
Bosworth says he never thought about walking away from his event, even though a number of his competitors – especially from Russia – have been shown to have doped. However he is realistic about where his sport is even now. “There are still probably people doping,” he says. “There’s no doubt about that. But probably it’s on a much smaller scale. But now I am at the front of the pack and I know I’m clean and I can beat them.”
However Bosworth faced controversy of his own, with some people on social media accusing him of cheating during his recent world record by illegally lifting both his feet off the ground at the same time – in effect of running. “People were comparing it to doping,” he says. “I was like, ‘Really? We are going to go down that line – with people freeze-framing every part of the film?’
Yet Bosworth knows he is no cheat, and just hopes that as race walking becomes more popular that more people understand the rules allow some flexibility. “The crucial part of the lifting rule is, if it’s clear to the human eye and you have clearly got both feet off the ground you are disqualified,” he says. “That’s a clear difference between somebody who is running and walking.”
He adds: “The IAAF are working on this chip to put in their shoes to show whether an athlete is off the ground, but what I find quite funny is I’ve heard they are going to allow for this little margin of error. So you are still going to be able to see pictures of us off the ground.”
Meanwhile, Bosworth believes race walking is on the up – whatever happens today. “Walking is the most popular sport in the world,” he says, smiling. “Screw football, walking is – it really is. I want to take the event to places like Park Runs and things like that. Running is easy – running is for people who can’t race walk!”
They tell a story at Manchester United that probably sums up why the previous regime at Old Trafford had a policy never to do business with Tottenham Hotspur and Sir Alex Ferguson once remarked that hip surgery was more enjoyable than trying to find common ground with Daniel Levy when it came to money. It goes back to Luka Modric’s final season at White Hart Lane when Ferguson was tipped off that the Croat would be keen on a move to Manchester to fill the void left by Paul Scholes’s retirement. In ordinary circumstances, Modric would have been the ideal fit. These, however, were not ordinary circumstances. Ferguson had never forgotten what it was like dealing with Levy in the protracted transfer saga he referred to as “the Dimitar Berbatov carry-on” and when he raised the matter with David Gill, United’s chief executive, the two men agreed they didn’t have the stomach to go though the same again. As good as Modric was, they simply couldn’t countenance another negotiation involving the Spurs chairman.
As football administrators go, it is certainly difficult to think of anybody else with Levy’s reputation for driving the people with whom he is negotiating to the point of spontaneous combustion. Ferguson, to put it into context, regarded Modric as one of the finest passers in the business and, five years on, probably still thinks the same. Yet he and Gill preferred to watch the player join Real Madrid rather than reopen lines of communication with Spurs. Gill had been there before with Levy and, to borrow a line from Billy Wilder: “I’ve met a lot of hardboiled eggs in my time, but you’re 20 minutes.”
Not that it is necessarily such a bad thing, bearing in mind it was not so long ago Levy was the subject of acclaim for the way he had managed to combine a healthy balance sheet with a team that could potentially win the league.
His record is of a man who gets a lot more right than wrong. He doesn’t bend for anyone and, if there is one thing we should know about him by now, it is that he won’t have liked one of his own players trying to back him into a corner over the last few days.
Danny Rose has certainly given it a good go and, if nothing else, it has provided an insight into the tactics the modern-day player favours when he fancies a better deal elsewhere and wants to hurry up the process. The key is to read between the lines and in Rose’s case it felt like the start of some prolonged eyelash-fluttering with Manchester United. Romelu Lukaku did something similar last season. Luis Suárez used the same ploy, albeit with far less subtlety, when he was trying to force his way from Liverpool to Barcelona and Philippe Coutinho may have to contemplate adopting the tactic if he wants to go the same route. It is known in the business as “playing the game”. Coutinho may not like the idea but time is slipping away and, as Steven Gerrard has said, at this stage it’s a question of “what type of war he’s prepared to create”.
Rose opted for the scatter-gun approach and he shouldn’t be too surprised that it has landed him in trouble with his employers. Yes, it made a welcome change to read a player interview where a press officer hadn’t scribbled a red line through all the interesting points. From the club’s point of view, however, it has caused considerable disruption on the eve of the new season and the timing was questionable, to say the least. For that alone, Rose can hardly be taken aback that it has cost him two weeks’ wages as a club fine.
At the same time, what he told the Sun did contain a number of home truths and Levy has badly misjudged the situation if he did not envisage a scenario where his players, after successive third- and second-placed finishes, would eventually start to ask these kind of awkward questions.
Put together a league table of how much the current top-division clubs have spent on transfers over the last five years and you may be surprised to find Tottenham actually occupy bottom spot. Spurs spent £253.9m on new signings in that period and banked £321.4m for players sold, making them one of only three clubs (with Southampton and Swansea City) to show a net profit. On average, it’s a £13.5m gain per season.
Looking at the top of that table, compare Spurs’ figure with Manchester City’s average net spend of £110m over those five years, followed by Manchester United (£87.4m), Arsenal (£47.6m), Chelsea (£26.8m), Liverpool (£22m) and, perhaps surprisingly, Crystal Palace (£21.9m). Huddersfield Town, playing in the top division for the first time since 1972, have a higher net spend than the team that finished runners-up in the Premier League last season.
Indeed, Burton Albion, 20th in the Championship last season, have spent more on average than Spurs. Rose’s apology was merely PR perfume. Of course there are players at Spurs thinking the club could do more. Of course they are wondering whether there are greater adventures to be had elsewhere.
It won’t put their minds at rest, either, that they are the only club in England’s top division to begin the season without having made a single transfer. Most clubs prefer to get their business done as quickly as possible. Yet Levy seems to get a strange kick from knowing the price will change if he holds his nerve and waits and waits. Hence he does so much late business. Jon Smith’s book, The Deal, telling the story of his life as a football agent, sums it up rather neatly. “I can remember Daniel phoning at 6am on one deadline day, bursting with enthusiasm and asking: ‘Right, what are we going to do today then?’” Smith did the deal that took Harry Redknapp from Portsmouth to Spurs in 2008 but he and Levy were £50,000 apart when it came to the commission. Levy eventually agreed to pay the extra as long as Smith, an Arsenal fan, bought an executive box at White Hart Lane. It cost him £48,000.
It certainly tells you a lot about Levy’s thinking that in the past 10 summers Spurs have signed 44 first‑team players and 20 of those deals have been completed after the season has started. Seventeen have arrived on deadline day or in the preceding 48 hours and it looks as if this will be the strategy for Ross Barkley at Everton, too. It doesn’t make life easy for the manager or the team as a whole.
Yet the bigger issue, undoubtedly, is that the players have just seen Kyle Walker more than double his wages by moving to Manchester City and are increasingly aware, as Rose pointed out, they are underpaid in comparison to the other clubs at the top end of the league, as well as plenty below that level. Harry Kane is the club’s top earner at £100,000 a week. It is mind‑boggling money but that would be at the lower end of the scale at, say, Chelsea or Manchester United and around a quarter of what Alexis Sánchez will earn – £325,000 a week plus image rights – if Manchester City can persuade Arsenal to let him go. Most of the other Spurs players, including Rose, Eric Dier and Hugo Lloris are in the £60,000-£75,000 bracket. It’s not Skid Row, but you can see their point when Bournemouth, Stoke City and Crystal Palace can pay more.
What does all this tell us? First of all, what we should already have known: that Spurs have been dramatically punching above their weight under Mauricio Pochettino’s guidance. The Argentinian has shown it is possible to take on the super-rich but Levy surely needs to have a long, hard think about significantly increasing the club’s wage bill unless he wants to risk a more widespread mutiny. Something has to give because whatever you think of the players’ motives – whether you agree with their complaints or think it is greed, envy, call it what you will – it is just a fact of life at Spurs that Pochettino’s men are earning a fraction of what they could make elsewhere. Levy should have seen this coming and, now it has finally caught up with him, it would be another mistake to assume this is an issue involving only one player.
Rose is simply the one who dared to put his head above the parapet but Levy is so intransigent in his financial dealings nobody should be surprised if he chooses to do nothing about it. This really is the key point. Do Spurs accept they have been short-changing their players and try to put it right? And can they afford not to, bearing in mind the disaffection that would inevitably create behind the scenes?
All that can really be said for certain is that it is a lousy way to begin the club’s first season away from White Hart Lane and another year of trying to end those opposition songs poking fun at the fact they “won the league in black and white”.
Their first game is at Newcastle on Sunday and maybe this is a good time to remember how Desmond Hackett, bowler-hatted sportswriter in the peak years of the Daily Express, elegantly previewed one season in the Bill Nicholson era with the opening line: “Spurs, once undisputed cock of north London and the whole of England and Europe, still grope uncertainly for vanished glory.” That was 15 August 1970. The same could apply now, coming up for half a century later, and starting the season this way makes it all the more difficult to imagine this could be the year that all changes.
This is shaping up to be a difficult season for the Football Association given the number of court cases that are already under way, at the same time that an inquiry is taking place to see if there was an institutional cover-up in the sexual‑abuse scandal, and it would be good to think we might be able to trust the governing body rather than have the permanent sense that its absolute priority is to protect its own reputation.
Unfortunately it isn’t always easy to give the relevant people the benefit of the doubt and I note the spin doctors have been busy weaving their elaborate patterns again now it has emerged that Eni Aluko received a mysterious £40,000 sweetener before this summer’s European Championship as long as she signed a confidentiality agreement not to discuss an eight-page complaint she had submitted against the England women’s team manager, Mark Sampson, and other members of staff.
Aluko’s grievance cited alleged bullying and harassment and it would be perfectly reasonable, one might assume, to think of this payment as hush money. Not so, according to the FA. It was merely to “avoid disruption” before the championships, not a ploy to “prevent disclosure”. That still sounds suspiciously like hush money to me. And, besides, since when has it been normal practice for the FA to offer cash incentives to make sure disaffected players keep schtum ahead of big games?
Aluko’s case prompted an internal review and a supposedly independent inquiry – if you want to believe an inquiry commissioned by the FA can accurately be described as independent– and neither upheld her complaints, ruling there was no case for disciplinary action.
Yet a thoroughly unsatisfactory tale takes another twist with the added information that the FA also awarded Aluko a £20,000 contract despite her saying she would not play “under his [Sampson’s] management”.
Financially, the people running the sport have been very keen to keep her quiet. The whole thing feels very fishy. And, if there is nothing to hide, what is stopping the FA from coming clean and removing this gagging order now the tournament is done and dusted?
José Mourinho is under a certain amount of pressure this season at Manchester United, albeit pressure he has brought on himself. At his previous clubs he has always managed to win the title in his second season and at his present one there is an expectation of something a little more dynamic than finishing sixth in the table and qualifying for the Champions League via the Europa competition.
Naturally the manager denies it. In fact before Sunday’s opener at home to West Ham he even admitted to looking forward to the season with the quality he now has at his disposal. “The only thing I have to do is work every day like I always do, the only demand on me is the one I put on myself. I don’t put any extra pressure on myself because I always give everything, then normally the results are a good consequence of that work. My dedication to my job is always at the maximum, even more now than when I started, and I believe at the end of the season we will see the results. With these players I am looking forward to the season with optimism, with enthusiasm, I can’t wait for the Champions League to start and the chance to play the top clubs. I am on fire.”
Mourinho can rarely be accused of underselling himself or his clubs, though even in combustible mode he still bore a message for his employers as well as the nation’s back pages, congratulating the United board on securing 75% of the transfer targets he outlined early in the window. The point he is making is that the other 25% of intended business remains to be completed. Mourinho requested four new players, United have bought him three.
Speculation that Danny Rose is the player still at large after United’s expensive captures of Romelu Lukaku, Nemanja Matic and Victor Lindelof only intensified when the Tottenham full-back spoke of wanting to move back north, though Mourinho batted that subject away with a carefully phrased answer. “I think I should not comment because Mauricio [Pochettino] would not be happy if I comment, Mr Levy would not be happy if I comment and because I had nothing to do with that interview,” the United manager said. “I just read it the same way that you did. Danny Rose is a Spurs player and it is not my problem at all.”
What could turn out to be a problem for Mourinho is a lack of width and crossing ability in his present squad, something that a player such as Rose would rectify and provide a more reliable service from the wings for Lukaku. Given that the manager has frequently complained of a lack of balance in the side, and that it took a fee that could reach £90m to prise Lukaku away from Everton ahead of Chelsea, it would not be the greatest surprise to see United spend big again before the end of the month if they are concerned about the striker becoming too isolated.
Manchester City have already outspent their neighbours and may not be finished either, though Mourinho believes all the top clubs are well-equipped to make a title challenge. “Buying good players is important, and generally the better squad win the titles, but money alone is not enough,” he said. “I think Tottenham without any spending is equipped to win the title because they have a fantastic team, a fantastic manager and great stability. Arsenal and Liverpool the same, Chelsea are the champions, it is hard to say which one is better prepared. I just think the competition can be better than ever but I think you will notice a difference in quality with United this season. I think we are ready. We are going to try to win the title.”
One of the reasons Mourinho feels that way is the solidity Matic will bring in front of the back four. The Serbia midfielder was one of the mainstays of the Chelsea side that won the title in Mourinho’s second spell at Stamford Bridge and the manager admitted that until a phone call informed him otherwise, he thought there was no point even trying to wrest him from the champions. “I could see when I first came to United that we needed a Matic-type player,” he said. “But there are not many around and I do not like to go after players where it is an impossible mission. Then I heard that he wanted to join United and could make it happen.
“I am very happy to have him because he is one of those players with no question marks. He doesn’t need time to adapt. He’s not a young guy coming from another country. He’s just turned 29 and he has five years’ Premier League experience. He gives me something I really like which is consistency. He is a fantastic signing for us because I can trust him to perform at a high level.”
It has been a defining week for Football Federation Australia chairman Steven Lowy, and following a hectic few days of negotiation, brinksmanship and ultimately failure, the outcome is not flattering.
The fate of football in this country now rests in the hands of Fifa and a potential normalisation committee after a delegation from Zurich oversaw an exhausting round of discussions with stakeholders but did not witness a resolution to the long-standing governance crisis.
Participants in the talks have indicated the major stumbling block was Lowy’s refusal to authorise a compromise deal. On two occasions most stakeholders were confident agreements had been reached but both were scuppered by 11th-hour interventions from the FFA chairman who convinced state and territory federation representatives to side with his view.
The ability for an elected director to strongarm congress members in this way strikes at the heart of why an overhaul of the body is necessary. The 10 FFA members are supposedly the game’s custodians. They are charged with overseeing the election of the FFA board, and in turn its chairman. According to FFA’s constitution the members are the “supreme electoral body of FFA and the supreme legislative body of FFA”.
Yet, as evidenced by this week’s manoeuvrings, with the exception of New South Wales, the states and territories appear collectively subservient to the board they are supposed to oversee. It is unclear how Lowy was able to convince the wavering members which way to side, but the inference from insiders is very much one of stick, not carrot.
FFA defended its chairman’s position, telling Fairfax Media, “It is entirely appropriate for the FFA board to share its view with the members and any other interested party as to what balance in the congress it believes is appropriate to ensure the interests of whole game are promoted. It is not right to suggest that the FFA board should not be actively involved in any debate about the company where they have been specifically tasked with acting in the best interests of it.”
Stakeholders believed Lowy’s official role in the formal negotiations was as a facilitator but became angry at what was perceived as overt coaching of the state and territory representatives. Such was the interference on one occasion it appears to have forced Fifa’s delegation to sideline the FFA chairman in a bid to foster productive dialogue. A-League clubs are especially furious at the two and a half hour side-meeting that Lowy conducted with state and territories after a compromise deal was brokered, a meeting that precipitated the breakdown of talks.
It begs the question why Lowy is proving so intransigent? Lowy asserted in his missive last week that: “We are involved for no other reason than to serve our country and see football continue to grow, prosper and build on the huge gains of the past 13 years and to honour the legacy of those who served the game for decades before that.” If that is the case, why has this fiasco been allowed to drag out for months only to end in such brinkmanship and make a Fifa intervention all-but inevitable despite stakeholders effectively resolving the situation twice?
There is a suggestion from inside the negotiations that Lowy now believes he can persuade Zurich to lobby for a preferred outcome in the time before a normalisation committee is implemented. But as previously mentioned, this is an administration seemingly without an agenda and lacking the funds to prosecute one if it did. All of this in an environment crying out for leadership and ambition.
The crisis is the product of FFA’s membership – its congress – being deemed unconstitutional by Fifa for representing only a narrow range of interests. Change is therefore mandated, unavoidable, and based on principles of good governance. With no little irony, the process of thrashing out what change might look like illustrated neatly why such changes are required.
The present congress is composed of the nine state and territory federations and one A-League representative (9-1). FFA proposed a 9-3-1 model with clubs gaining two extra votes and Professional Footballers Australia one. This was dismissed by Fifa as not going far enough.
A-League club owners and PFA put forward a 9-6-2 model which was rejected by FFA as it pushed a potential A-League/PFA bloc towards a size that would require only a minority of state and territory federations to align with it to obtain enough voting rights to force through their agenda. NSW, by far the largest state federation, is already out of alignment with the FFA board position.
All of which meant the purpose of the week was to find a middle ground between 9-3-1 and 9-6-2, with the threat of a normalisation committee hanging like the sword of Damocles over Whitlam Square.
It seemed agreement had been reached twice on a malleable 9-5-1 solution, a compromise supported by A-League clubs, PFA, and all state and territory federations to progress. On both occasions late persuasion from Lowy seems to have pulled the rug from under the deal.
The official response to talks gives little indication of the chaos that took place or is scheduled to follow. “A wide range of options has been robustly discussed over the past 48 hours,” Lowy said. “Everyone, including the FFA Board, A-League club owners, member federations and the PFA have shown willingness to move from their original positions and this has been noted by the Fifa/AFC delegation.
“FFA and the Fifa/AFC delegation have agreed not to make public comment on the details of these proposals while discussions continue. FFA is hopeful that an agreement can be reached to enable the necessary procedural changes to achieve an expanded congress by the end of November.”
The pitfalls of a denuded congress can be seen elsewhere with A-League clubs recommitting to pursuing FFA in court to force the disclosure of financial information that might ordinarily be presumed readily available. What is there to hide that they are prepared to go to such lengths to protect? Moreover, where has the oversight been from congress to allow such a toxic situation to fester – especially in light of Australia’s place in the uncomfortable Garcia report.
Adelaide United chairman Greg Griffin is leading this charge, writing to FFA recently: “Not only have these findings [the Garcia report] shamed Australian sport but it causes any fair minded person reason to doubt the integrity of the FFA accounting practices which are not disclosed to any member. Put simply I believe that unless I and any other interested member review the associated figures there can be no formal closure of the matter.”
This is an ugly unbecoming mess and under the current leadership there seems little chance of a positive resolution. The Fifa normalisation committee was originally feared for the uncertainty it represented. Perhaps it should now be viewed as the source of merciful relief?
The cheers have surely not been louder all world championships. But, dramatically and unexpectedly, this time they were not for Usain Bolt, who ended the final race of his career face down on the track and with his hamstring blown. Instead they rang loud and true for the young British athlete Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake, who held off the American Christian Coleman to take the home nation’s second gold medal of the championships in a dramatic men’s 4x100m relay final.
It was a sensational performance that was reflected on the clock. The British team’s time was 37.47 – a national record and the fastest time in the world this year. The United States were second in 37.52, with Japan third in 38.04. Britain has not had the greatest of world championships but suddenly the crowd were off their feet, jumping and hugging and applauding.
But, inevitably, there was sorrow for Bolt too. The Jamaican team were in third place when the greatest sprinter and showman the sport has ever known took the baton. He is older, slower, and greyer now – but he is still a man who can turn the ignition key to his own legs quicker than any other sprinter on the planet.
Understandably he was desperate to win yet another world title in his last race – especially following the tragic death of his close friend Germaine Mason, the Olympic silver medal winning high jumper, in a road accident in April. But as he opened his stride and began to accelerate he suddenly began to hop before collapsing on the track in agony.
This has been a world championships where many of the sport’s biggest stars have been knocked off their perch. Bolt. Mo Farah. Kendra Harrison. Wayde van Niekerk. All have felt the jolting sting of a rare defeat. Yet no one expected this. The Jamaican men’s 4x100m relay team knew they were one of sport’s great bankers, having not lost a global relay on the track since Osaka in 2007. Not this time.
Afterwards CJ Ujah, who made a sensational start and put Britain ahead out of the blocks said: “I just wanted to run a good race and a night like this is fantastic.”
Adam Gemili, who proved his fitness beyond doubt after being controversially left out of the 200m, called it “the best feeling in the world”.
Meanwhile Danny Talbot admitted a hidden truth: “This is what we wanted to do. Everyone knew we wanted to win a medal – but deep down we wanted gold.”
Bolt, meanwhile, hobbled to the line, helped by his team-mates. This is not how he would have wanted it to end. It is over 15 years since athletics insiders started speaking in hushed awe about a young lank Jamaican who had won the 2002 world junior championships in 20.61sec. That time alone, set as a 15-year-old, would have beaten two of athletes in Thursday’s 200m final.
The British team of Asha Philip, Desiree Henry, Dina Asher-Smith and Daryll Neita also lit up the track by claiming a deserved silver in the 4x100m relay behind the United States. Their time of 42.12 wasn’t the quickest – in fact it was nearly two tenths slower than in their morning heat. But no one was complaining.
It helped they were against a Jamaican team stripped of its biggest names. Not only were they without Elaine Thompson, the fastest 100m women in the world this year, but those veteran stalwarts Veronica Campbell-Brown and Shelly-Anne Fraser-Pryce. Still their team of Jura Levy, Natasha Morrison, Simone Facey and Sashalee Forbes were able to claim bronze in 42.19sec, with Germany fourth in 42.36.
In truth it wasn’t smoothest set of baton changes ever seen by a British team. Henry was at full stretch when she handed over to Henry, while Asher-Smith had to check her stride to get the baton on the third leg. But with the Americans’ handovers also ragged, particularly their final exchange to Tori Bowie, the world 100m champion, it meant that Neita was in the hunt for gold with 80 metres to go.
There was a shock in the women’s 100m hurdles as the Australian Sally Pearson, who came close to quitting after serious injuries, blasted clear of world record holder Kendra Harrison to win gold.
Pearson has fond memories of this track, having won Olympic gold at London 2012. But two years ago in Rome she suffered a wrist injury so serious she feared she would need her lower arm amputated. To make matters worse, she also missed the Olympics with a hamstring injury.
Yet she was back close to her best here, leading from the gun to win in 12.59sec. It was her second world title – six years after her first in Daegu in 2011. No wonder she shouted: “Oh my God!” repeatedly after she crossed the line. She was barely any more coherent afterwards, “That was bloody hard,‚“ said Pearson. “It’s been a long journey back from injury, but to get this moment and go and celebrate in front of my family is unreal.
“My husband is in the crowd there somewhere, I’ll try and find him and give him a hug soon. This is just so incredible to be a world champion again.”
The American Dawn Harper-Nielsen took silver in 12.63, while the Germany Pamela Dutkiewicz grabbed a surprise bronze 0.09sec further back. Incredibly, Harrison – who set the world record of 12.22sec on this track last year – could only run 12.74, a time she could normally do in her sleep.
The mood inside the room had turned as gloomy as the dark clouds on view through the windows when someone attempted a joke. “It’s North Korea v the United States,” they said, deadpan. “Just without the nuclear weapons.”
It got a laugh, yet Mike Ashley v Rafael Benítez is a little bit different; less Kim Jong-un v Donald Trump and much more a particularly capricious brand of shortsighted parochialism against a worldly wise grasp of the bigger picture.
Benítez appreciates that the current Premier League transfer-market inflation is “crazy” but believes that if Newcastle United are to prosper on their latest return to the top tier, they must speculate to accumulate.
Very possibly disappointed at his failure to sell the club this summer, the owner is not prepared to banish the threat of a relegation battle by borrowing against future broadcast income. Cue an impasse that has left Benítez fearing a relegation skirmish.
“For us, this summer was crucial,” said Newcastle’s manager, whose side, supplemented by some motley-looking cut-price recruits, face Tottenham Hotspur at St James’ Park on Sunday afternoon. “We needed to bring more players in but we couldn’t get them. This has been a problem; now we have to find solutions.
“We cannot compete against some clubs. Players we were considering buying are going to bottom-of-the-table teams for £20m-25m. To me it’s crazy, but that’s the market. If you want to compete, you have to go into it. We’re in a worse position than I expected, but I still have confidence everything can be fine. I don’t want people panicking if we lose some games at the beginning. We’ll work hard and become better.”
Extraordinarily, Ashley has not spoken to the much-decorated former Liverpool, Chelsea and Real Madrid manager since the pair met in May for their first face-to-face chat of 2017, and this most dysfunctional relationship took another bizarre turn on Friday. While Benítez highlighted his concerns at Newcastle’s training ground, Sky released excerpts from an interview with the Sports Direct owner in which the billionaire said his money was tied up and a lack of “cash in the bank” dictated that he could not bankroll the team.
Benítez never imagined he would be given carte blanche, but did envisage being allowed to spend significantly more than the £30m profit he made on player trading – specifically from Moussa Sissoko’s sale to Spurs – last summer. So far, though, Javier Manquillo, Florian Lejeune, Jacob Murphy, Mikel Merino and Christian Atsu have arrived for roughly that sum, and the manager has been told he must sell before buying again.
Perhaps the biggest mystery is why the 57-year-old remains in his post, but while he is clearly “not happy”, Benítez says he remains fully committed to the challenge ahead.
For the moment at least, an amalgam of loyalty to players, staff and adoring fans is the tie binding him to the peculiarities of Ashley’s regime.
It is the owner’s good fortune that the determination of Benítez’s wife and two teenage daughters to live on Merseyside precludes a move abroad – and that a gifted coach has traditionally performed best when backed into corners.
Yet if his successes at Tenerife, Valencia and Liverpool came at clubs with appreciably smaller budgets and less starry squads than their principal rivals, Newcastle are starting from an infinitely more modest base.
Moreover the increased involvement of Justin Barnes, an abrasive lawyer and long-term Ashley ally, has disrupted the previously harmonious relationship between Benítez and Lee Charnley, the club’s managing director.
Matters came to a head when Charnley failed to secure a loan deal Benítez had arranged for the Chelsea striker Tammy Abraham. Briefly, resignation became an option. “I was working very hard and when we couldn’t do it I was asking why,” Newcastle’s manager said. “Then I said [to myself]: ‘We have this problem and this one and this one, so what do I want to do?’ And I said: ‘I want to stay.’
“We have a whole city behind me and the team. So I said: ‘It’s a pity, but we’ll try our best’ – and we’re still pushing, still trying to change things, to do things in a normal way.”
He is puzzled at Ashley’s lack of faith in his ability to ultimately bring success – and money – to Tyneside. “We want to replicate successful things we’ve done in the past,” said Benítez. “If I’m here and they pay me this salary, it’s surely because they trust me? It’s because I’ve won things and do things professionally.
“We’re not demanding crazy things – we’re just demanding to do things in a professional way, like we did with Liverpool or Chelsea. I was hoping it could be like that here, but, now, it’s not exactly what I was expecting.”
For the moment, though, Benítez’s loyalty remains undimmed – even if his frustration is palpable. “I don’t want to be egotistical,” he said. “But I had two or three players who came here because of me. I can’t let them down.
“I decided to stay in the Championship – a massive risk, because I wanted to be in the Premier League at a massive club like this one and compete at the top of the table. But I don’t know if we can do that now. It’s a problem that teams like Crystal Palace are spending more.”
When Benítez emerges from the tunnel on Sunday memories of a balmy May afternoon in 2016 will come flooding back. After replacing Steve McClaren, he narrowly failed to stave off relegation, but as his doomed side thrashed Mauricio Pochettino’s Spurs 5-1, St James’ serenaded him, nonstop.
“Rafa, we want you to stay,” they chorused as the watching Ashley prepared to give his Champions League-winning coach the same message. “It was a massive day,” recalled Benítez a tad wistfully. “It was the day I was talking with Mike about the future – and it was all so positive.”
Sebastian Coe has insisted the IAAF is right to go to the courts to ensure that Caster Semenya and other athletes with hyperandrogenism are not allowed to compete unless they take action to suppress naturally high testosterone levels.
Semenya is a strong favourite to win 800m gold on Sunday night, with her two closest rivals – Burundi’s Francine Niyonsaba and Kenya’s Margaret Wambui – also both subject to the kind of innuendo that Semenya herself experienced in 2009.
Lord Coe confirmed on Saturday the IAAF will go back to the court of arbitration for sport in September or October to continue the arguments over the case of the Indian sprinter Dutee Chand, who accused the organisation of discriminating against her by setting an upper limit for the testosterone levels of female competitors. That led to Cas changing the rules – while giving the IAAF two years to prove its case.
The IAAF will argue that athletes with hyperandrogenism, such as Semenya – who was reportedly born with no womb or ovaries but internal testes – have a huge advantage over rivals because of their high testosterone levels. Coe admitted he understood the sensitivities around the case but added he had to do the right thing by his sport.
“This is an incredibly sensitive subject,” he said. “We are all fathers and brothers. I don’t want athletes being demonised but it is the responsibility of the federation to create a level playing field in female sport. We don’t want to turn this into a witch hunt. Nobody is choosing to cheat here. This is not an anti-doping issue – it is a biological one. I have to protect the sport, and of course we have done this carefully. But inevitably there is going to be conjecture and people will feel very strongly about it.
“I don’t want our sport to enter or emerge from this process as being rabid or intolerant of the situation or the condition,” added Coe. “But my ultimate responsibility is to make sure this gets resolved.”
Speaking after winning bronze in the 1500m, Semenya said that she is unconcerned about what the IAAF would do and was concentrating instead on winning 800m gold. “I really don’t have time for nonsense,” she said. “I do not think about something that might happen in eight months. I don’t focus on the IAAF. It’s not my business. My business is to train hard and see what I come up with in competition.”
Coe also confirmed he would like to see the Russian team return in time for the world championships at Doha in 2019. “I would,” he added, “because it will mean that we are satisfied their athletes have come from a clean environment.”
Only 19 Russians have competed in London as neutral athletes, with Mariya Lasitskene taking gold in the women’s high jump and three winning silver medals, including Sergey Shubenkov in the men’s 110m hurdles, Darya Klishina in the women’s long jump and Valeriy Pronkin in the men’s hammer.
“The guiding principle for me was separating the clean athletes from the tainted system,” said Coe, “Which is why we have had our doping review board go through every application. There are signs of good progress. If we get them back next year, or the year after, it will be because they have met the criteria.”
Coe also said he would like to see the World Athletics Championships come back to London sooner rather than later. “I don’t think anybody in the sport would set its face against thinking ‘We can’t be back here for 30 or 40 years’. There has to be a recognition that this stadium has been full of people morning, noon and night, and that’s a massive advantage to have.”
Block by block the crowd inside the London Stadium rose like an advancing Mexican wave as Mo Farah sprinted past in pursuit of the Ethiopian duo ahead. So often they have seen him win from this position but after 10 straight global titles and four double golds, finally, he could not find a way.
Body heaving with adrenaline and emotion, he curled into the foetal position at the finish, beaten in a major final for the first time in six years. Silver on this occasion stung like defeat and salt was rubbed into open wounds by his conqueror, Muktar Edris of Ethiopia, performing the iconic Mobot at the finish.
This 5,000m was billed as the 34-year-old’s perfect farewell. Those wearing “Go Mo!” face paint and waving “Run, Farah, Run!” banners were expecting one last gold on the track before he moves to the road next year. But his rivals set the tone even before the race began. Paul Chelimo of the USA, who pushed Farah all the way at the Rio Olympics, also did the Mobot and a throat-slitting gesture when the camera panned to him at the start. “It is what it is, I just meant that I was going to take Mo down,” said Chelimo.
They seemed empty threats as the race unfolded at a sluggish pace, apparently playing into the hands of Farah, who usually relishes a sprint finish. The 17-year-old Ethiopian Selemon Barega, an unknown quantity, briefly went to the front but soon fell back. The Australian Patrick Tiernan also stretched his legs at the head of the pack but was unable to continue the assault.
As the bell rang, the real contenders stood up. Ethiopia’s Yomif Kejelcha accelerated to the front with Edris on his shoulder and Farah straining every sinew to stay with them. It took a 52-second final lap to overcome the Briton, as it had for Ibrahim Jeilan to beat Farah over 10,000m at the world championships in Daegu in 2011, his most recent major defeat before Saturday night.
“The better man won on the day but I gave it my all,” said Farah, “I didn’t have anything left at the end.”
Down the home straight it seemed likely Farah would miss out on the medals altogether as he found himself in rarely charted territory, boxed in on the inside lane. But he picked off a tiring Kejelcha and eventual bronze medallist Chelimo in the dying metres to take silver in 13:33.22, with Edris winning the title in 13:32.79.
“You have to give credit to Edris,” said Farah. “They had a game plan and it was three against one. They had to sacrifice one of them and it was Kejelcha, who didn’t get a medal. Edris sat at the back, and did as little work as possible to then hit me on the last lap. As an athlete when you get in the race, you want to cover every move but I spent quite a lot of energy making sure I was in the right place.”
Disappointment etched on his face, Farah completed a farewell lap draped in the Union flag. There were kisses for his young family in the crowd including twins Aisha and Amani, weeks away from their fifth birthday. Farah has not lost a major championship race since they were born. “I’ve made a lot of sacrifices in terms of time away from my family,” said Farah, “It’s been a long journey but it’s been incredible, I need to have a couple of moments to myself to appreciate it.”
Farah ran with three stitches in his leg, a reminder of a spike from another runner’s shoe puncturing his skin during his victorious 10,000m a week ago. He did not display any obvious ill effects but admitted he was drained. “To be honest the 10,000m, it takes so much out of me, more out of me than I realised,” he said, cradling toddler son Hassan.
For all the disappointment, this was still an eighth world medal to go with his four Olympic golds at home in Oregon. It remains to be seen how long Farah will keep his base in America, with his next major target presumed to be the London marathon. “There’s no place like home and I’ve really enjoyed this journey,” he said. “I’ve got a few more races planned but in terms of track this chapter is closed.”
Farah remains the only individual British medallist at this Championships so far.
Katarina Johnson-Thompson narrowly missed out on a high jump medal with a best clearance of 1.95m seeing her finish fifth. Had she cleared that height during the heptathlon last week she would have won gold.
“I won’t give up on the heptathlon,” she said. “I know I will eventually get there one day. Unfortunately these championships weren’t meant to be but there is always next year.”
Morgan Lake, who will soon decide on whether her future is as a multi-eventer or a specialist high jumper, finished sixth after clearing 1.95m with her second attempt. The 20-year-old said: “Last year I was just absolutely ecstatic to make the final in Rio and this year I came sixth, so I think that just shows how much I’ve moved and in an environment where I’ll hopefully be challenging for medals in years to come.”
Antonio Conte denied that his team sheet was intended as any kind of message to the Chelsea hierarchy after a lineup stocked with kids on the bench and a 20-year-old making his first start lost to Burnley on the opening day of their title defence.
“You don’t know me very well,” Conte said, replying to the suggestion he might have intended to highlight the club’s lukewarm summer recruitment. “You can see that in every friendly game I always played the best formation and I did the same today. My choice was to put out the best players that we have in this moment. I don’t like this type of idea, someone sending a message. I wanted to win today, not to send a message.”
However, Conte did point the finger of blame at his players, accusing his team of losing composure after the sending off of the captain, Gary Cahill, in the 13th minute
“It was a key moment because after that red card we conceded three goals, but we must pay attention because there is the whole rest of the game to do your best. Despite this we also saw the great spirit and great commitment of my players and we must be very proud of this.
“I saw two faces today: one positive in the second half, one negative in the first half.”
Asked about the referee Craig Pawson’s performance in sending off first Cahill and then Cesc Fàbregas, Conte offered a long pause before saying: “I prefer not to comment on the referee’s decisions or the performance of the referee. The coach can make mistakes the players can mistakes, the referee – yes.”
There was at least one positive aspect for Chelsea in the performance of Álvaro Morata, who scored his first club goal, although Conte also warned that his record signing still has much work to do on both his fitness and fitting into the system.
Meanwhile, Sean Dyche was generous in victory, with the Burnley manager swatting aside the suggestion his players might have sensed some vulnerability in the champions at the start of the match. “No, not at all. The sending-off made a big difference to them. I thought the referee was very good – he had a tough game to handle.
“They’re a top-class side, with some fantastic individuals, 3-0 down is not normal for them so they had to respond, which they did. It’s a big win for us, even with 10 men they’re a fine side. In fact, they opened up the pitch more with 10 on the pitch. I’m really pleased with my players.
“In the second half we were in that awkward predicament – do you attack or hold on to it? They scored two, there were a couple of maybes, we hit the post. I think by the end you’d have to say we deserved it.”
Jürgen Klopp has made it clear that any decision about Philippe Coutinho leaving Liverpool is out of his hands, with the manager claiming his “bosses” have the final say on any players going in or out of the club.
Coutinho is desperate to join Barcelona and the Brazilian submitted a transfer request on Friday to try to force the move through, yet Liverpool remain adamant he will stay.
Speaking after Liverpool’s 3-3 draw at Watford, where Miguel Britos scored a 93rd-minute equaliser to darken the manager’s mood further, Klopp outlined how things work at Anfield when it comes to transfers, in particular the fact that he does not have total control when it comes to players’ futures.
Asked about Coutinho’s transfer request, which was emailed to Michael Edwards, Liverpool’s sporting director, Klopp said: “I didn’t get it but I can say something that is maybe more important. As a manager of a football club I have bosses, and if bosses decide, for example, just in general, if we sell a player or we don’t sell him, then I have to accept it. I cannot say anything about it [the transfer request]. I work with the players I have – that is what I’m always doing.”
Liverpool are disappointed with the way Coutinho has handled things, especially as the club had previously made it clear to him in face-to-face meetings that a move to Barcelona would not be entertained at the moment.
Klopp, who pointed to the statement Liverpool issued on Friday when asked whether anything had changed from the club’s perspective, chose his words carefully. Asked whether he was upset with Coutinho’s conduct, the manager said: “First of all, if I would be upset with the player, I would tell him.”
The manager’s mind was more engaged with Liverpool’s dramatic draw at Vicarage Road, where the visitors thought they had the game won when they scored twice in two minutes in the second half through Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah to take a 3-2 lead. Watford snatched a point in controversial circumstances, however, when Britos, from an offside position, bundled home in injury time. “We had our moments then we conceded an offside goal,” Klopp said. “That’s really not fun. Difficult to accept.”
It was the second goal that Liverpool conceded from a corner, after Stefano Okaka’s opener exposed familiar shortcomings in a team that were vulnerable when dealing with dead-ball situations last season. Liverpool’s defending on Watford’s other goal, which was swept home by Abdoulaye Doucouré after Sadio Mané had equalised for Liverpool, was also desperately poor. “Of course we knew it before but after this game we have a lot of things to do,” Klopp added.
For Brighton & Hove Albion, this was one of those scenarios when the age-old saying about sport’s value being in the taking part rang true. It was never likely to be about the winning, not against Premier League favourites with all the massed qualities that Manchester City bring. In some ways it is no bad thing this one is ticked off now. Brighton can get on with the task in hand with a different kind of focus.
City were not at their slickest but still possessed more than enough finesse to dominate, cruise through the game and pick up three points thanks to two late goals.
Pep Guardiola’s satisfaction to begin the campaign with an exercise in control and a straightforward win was clear. They did everything required, with gallons of potential in the tank. But do not go reading too much into it now.
“Last season I was sitting here after the Sunderland game and you said: ‘You are the favourites, most beautiful, handsome and nice guys in the league.’ And after, you know what happened last season? Chelsea killed us,” he said. “OK, we accept what the people say but all we have to try is to improve and improve.”
The speed of their attacking patterns is an area he wants to tweak, and it was notable how many dynamic players were in reserve. What a bench – Bernardo Silva, Leroy Sané and Raheem Sterling came on for late cameos.
Guardiola was pleased to see his defence was relatively untroubled. The presence of Vincent Kompany always makes a difference, Kyle Walker slotted in comfortably and his fellow summer signing, Ederson, in goal, had only one nerve-wracking moment to contend with.
Brighton could have been handed a gentler first course at English football’s top table. Perhaps a Watford or Huddersfield or Burnley or so the stereotype would have it … As it turned out the highly tuned and luxuriously reinforced ambition of Guardiola’s City ensured the excitement was mixed with an understandable dose of trepidation.
The chasm in terms of resources was made plain by the fact City’s new collection of full-backs cost more than the funds raised to construct the Amex Stadium, but it was the football gap Brighton were keen to mind.
First of all they had to master their own nerves. The sense of heady occasion, the mark of history, all the anticipation that had gripped this part of the south coast seemed to weigh heavily on the Brighton players for the first 20 minutes. Chris Hughton was conscious that this was a special day, and a tricky one for his players to manage calmly.
“It’s understandable,” he said. “Today was very much a club day. This club had a very difficult history – there were a lot of supporters here who were not able to come not so long ago. Our first game in the Premier League was going to be a big occasion but the fact Man City were coming made it even bigger.”
The return of top-flight football for the first time since 1983, and the depths of their plummet in the meantime, meant emotions were charged as this boisterous crowd rubbed their eyes and welcomed this big step with spine-tingling noise.
Making inroads against City was not the priority. Containment was. Their illustrious opponents hugged the ball, retaining possession for long stretches.
David Silva’s creative spark shone. Gabriel Jesus had flashes in the spotlight in search of a breakthrough. On one occasion the Brazilian caught the ball at speed and it bounced off his leg and scooped off his arm and in. Michael Oliver, the referee, immediately spotted the infringement and there was no question of a goal.
City stepped up a gear after the break and the crowd held its collective breath for an Agüero-must-score moment. He opened up his body and looked set for a deadly finish but his shot was strangely off beam.
Then Brighton found another gear of their own. Shane Duffy stabbed in a shot. Lewis Dunk came close and when the ball pinballed out to Davy Pröpper the Dutchman lashed wide.
The pendulum swung back as City regained momentum and began probing again. De Bruyne carved room for himself to strike with ferocity. The ball hit Dunk’s hand and despite City’s protestations the official showed no inclination to award a penalty.
The visitors would not wait long to clinch the points, though. When Dale Stephens lost possession City broke with clinical precision. Kevin De Bruyne clipped the ball to Silva, whose cute first- touch pass was threaded perfectly for Agüero. The ball was guided past Ryan with unerring cool.
There would be no way back for Brighton when City doubled their lead three minutes later as Dunk turned Fernandinho’s cross into his own net.
All in all it was a lesson for Brighton. How much they take on board, and how quickly, will be the focus for Hughton. “Now we dust ourselves down,” he said. “It’s a very tough league.
“You have to be able to park these defeats very, very quickly. We have to make sure we have a squad to compete in this league by the end of this window.”
• Aston Villa continue to search for their first win of the season after they were well beaten 3-0 by Cardiff City in south Wales. Kenneth Zohore powered down the wing brilliantly before crossing for Junior Hoilett to slam in on the hour, a goal which came between two Nathaniel Mendez-Laing strikes on his full debut to leave Neil Warnock’s side with maximum points from their opening two games and top of the embryonic Championship table.
• Cardiff are joined at the summit by Nottingham Forest after a thriller unfolded at Griffin Park. Forest came from behind to lead Brentford 3-1 before eventually holding on to clinch a 4-3 win, with the Greek midfielder Andreas Bouchalakis on target with two sublime strikes. Brentford’s fellow west Londoners both picked up a point on the road: Fulham’s Lucas Piazon equalised late for a 1-1 draw at Reading, and QPR earned the same result at Sheffield Wednesday.
• Hull City took advantage of Jackson Irvine’s red card, only four minutes after he had equalised for Burton Albion, to rack up the goals at the KCom Stadium and secure Leonid Slutsky’s first win in charge. Abel Hernández slotted a well-taken hat-trick in the 4-1 victory and Kamil Grosicki added the other.
• Bobby Reid handed Bristol City the lead at Birmingham within a minute of kick-off but despite 24 further attempts at goal the Robins could not add to their tally, and goals from Craig Gardner and Jacques Maghoma sealed the comeback for Harry Redknapp’s team. Barnsley also struck early, at home against Ipswich Town through Tom Bradshaw, but David McGoldrick and Martyn Waghorn turned the game in the visitors’ favour to win 2-1 and continue their perfect start.
• Wolves needed no such powers of recovery, playing well throughout at Pride Park to beat Derby 2-0 in another show of quality by one of the summer’s big spenders. Promoted sides Millwall and Bolton shared a 1-1 draw at The Den while Leeds and Preston drew blanks at Elland Road, with Ben Pearson’s sending off on the hour the major talking point.
• Pep Clotet’s start to life as a manager continued in perfect fashion with Oxford United’s 3-0 victory over Portsmouth at the Kassam. Wes Thomas slammed home Christian Ribeiro’s cross barely a minute into the second half and late strikes by Gino van Kessel and Joshua Ruffels ensured maximum points to go with two clean sheets from their opening two games.
• It has been a terrible start to life in the third tier for Blackburn, however, who lost again, going down 3-1 at Ewood Park to newly promoted Doncaster. The game was goalless at half-time but Tony Mowbray’s side conceded immediately after the break and were losing 3-0 with fans heading for the exits before Dominic Samuel’s late consolation.
• Rotherham have not enjoyed many big wins in the past three years of struggle in the Championship, so their thrashing of Southend will have been a welcome treat, blitzing Phil Brown’s team in a first-half flurry with Kieffer Moore wrapping up his hat-trick just before the break, before Ryan Williams rounded off the 5-0 rout.
• Bradford City, who lost the play-off final to Millwall in May, illustrated their intent to challenge at the top end again this season with a 1-0 win over 10-man Gillingham, Dominic Poleon scoring after 19 minutes before Conor Wilkinson’s late red to register Bradford’s second win from two. Also with perfect starts are Fleetwood Town, who won at Northampton Town 1-0 thanks to Devante Cole’s late goal, Peterborough via a 4-1 win at Bristol Rovers and a fine Jack Marriott hat-trick, and Shrewsbury Town who saw off AFC Wimbledon with Alex Rodman’s eighth-minute goal.
• The smallest player in the Football League, Erhun Oztumer, popped up at the death for Walsall to complete an important comeback win over Oldham. Two Jake Jervis goals saw off Charlton at Plymouth, Sean Longstaff’s early strike was enough for Blackpool to beat MK Dons, and Rochdale drew a nip and tuck game 1-1 with Scunthorpe.
• The remarkable statistic that Coventry City have not finished in the top six of any division for 47 years looks in danger of going no further judging by the early signs this season. An opportunistic finish by Marc McNulty and a Jack Grimmer header downed Grimsby Town 2-0 and ensured a second win and clean sheet for Mark Robins and his side – the only team in League Two on six points.
• Port Vale were on the end of fast start by Wycombe Wanderers who raced into a 3-0 lead with goals by Paris Cowan-Hall and an Adebayo Akinfenwa double – at 35, the Beast shows no signs of slowing down. Vale bagged two very late replies but couldn’t get the all-important equaliser. Fans at Huish Park were equally entertained as Yeovil Town beat Accrington Stanley 3-2, with the Southampton loanee Olufela Olomola twice on the scoresheet.
• A 1-1 draw was the most popular result of the day, shared by Swindon and Exeter, Lincoln and the dogged Morecambe, 10-man Crewe and Newport, and between Colchester and Stevenage despite Mikael Mandron’s first goal for United. Cheltenham edged Crawley 1-0 thanks to Mohamed Eisa’s header, Carlisle won 2-1 to hand Cambridge their second defeat on the spin, Jack Taylor’s injury-time winner ensured a 1-0 win and three points for Barnet against Luton, and two second-half goals in six minutes helped Mansfield defeat Forest Green 2-0.
William Buick was injured and his mount, Permian, had to be destroyed after a nasty incident at the end of the Secretariat Stakes in Chicago on Saturday night. The colt, trained in Yorkshire by Mark Johnston, had just crossed the line at Arlington International Racecourse in a disappointing last of six when he stumbled, unseating Buick.
It was immediately clear that Permian had broken his left foreleg so badly that he could not be saved. Known in Britain as one of the toughest Flat horses of the year, he was having his eighth race since mid-April and had won three of those, including the King Edward VII Stakes at Royal Ascot.
Buick was reported by the British journalist Nick Luck to have full movement in his limbs. Charlie Johnston, Mark’s son and assistant, later added that the jockey was conscious but in pain as he was taken to hospital.
“We’ve lost the horse,” said Johnston. “He suffered a catastrophic fracture of his left fore. I was with him on the track for 30 seconds. He was in the process of running a very disappointing race and I believe it was when he was winding down that it happened. I am with William and he is conscious, but complaining of back pain.”
Arlington’s Twitter account later reported that Buick had been “sitting up, talking and moving” before he left the track. He was reportedly due to undergo “precautionary” scans.
Buick’s injury came on a winless night for European raiders on the Arlington Million card. However, Fanciful Angel, trained in Newmarket by Marco Botti, plugged on gamely to be second in the big race under Daniel Muscutt, bagging £162,000 in prize money.
The grey was last seen beating one home in a Listed race at Sandown. The US punters made him a 73-1 shot but he belied those odds in finishing a length behind Beach Patrol.
The main Saturday action in Britain was Ascot’s Shergar Cup, where a timely double by Fran Berry helped his ‘Britain and Ireland’ team to victory and reminded everyone of his skills just a couple of months after his split from the trainer Ralph Beckett. It was Berry’s second success in the Silver Saddle for top jockey at this international competition, putting him alongside Richard Hughes and Gerald Mosse as the only riders to have done it more than once.
In his quiet way, Berry pointed out that it was only the third time he had taken part in a Shergar Cup. It is a novelty event rather than a precise measure of riding ability but Berry’s achievement is noteworthy just the same and he is surely right to hope, now that he has decided to remain in Britain as a freelance, that this will have attracted the notice of potential employers.
The job with Beckett was a big one, offering the chance to ride classy animals in Group races, so Berry must feel its loss, especially after only 18 months in the role.
But it lasted long enough for him to make connections in Britain and he has now ridden winners for 20 different trainers this year.
“Fantastic day,” the Irishman said. “I didn’t realise we’d won the competition until after the line. Great to get the call-up, very thankful to get the call-up and even better to ride a couple of winners.
“It’s a big day, you see the crowd here today and you get a kick out of it. You put your head down and work hard through the week but there’s something about riding nice winners on Saturdays. It was such a tight competition going into the last, any one of three teams could have won it and to be in front and hold on was great.”
While he acknowledged an element of luck in being drawn on horses that can win, Berry said coming out on top was “a feather in my cap”. “They might have me back next year,” he added.
It remains to be seen whether Michelle Payne will be asked back next year. The Australian was expected to be the star of this show but dropped out early on Saturdaymorning, saying she was still suffering from a virus, the effects of which she began to feel soon after her arrival on Wednesday.
“I find I am unable to ride in the Dubai Duty Free Shergar Cup competition today,” Payne was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the racecourse, which made her sound as stiffly spoken as the lady who owns Ascot.
The news came as no great surprise, Payne having left early from a media event on Thursday, complaining of illness.
A mischievous few have decided to hold Payne’s withdrawal against her. They may possibly include ITV’s Matt Chapman, who, acting as Ascot’s MC, introduced her replacement, Hollie Doyle, to the crowd with the words “this girl is no diva”.
However, Payne came across well during the hours she spent with the media on Thursday and Ascot officials report that she was genuinely and obviously “gutted” about having to stay in her hotel. She has been told her virus will take five to seven days to shake off, which may yet allow her to ride Kaspersky, who she was aboard in the Queen Anne Stakes at Royal Ascot, at Newbury next Saturday.
Briefly during the first race, Payne must have imagined she had missed a winner as Doyle surged to the front on the 10-1 shot Sir Robert Cheval. But he was collared close home by Jamie Spencer on Stake Acclaim and the day got no better for the Girls Team, who finished tailed off last behind the other three teams.
Hayley Turner, the leading points earner among all jockeys at the Shergar Cup, added just three to her career tally and finished last of the dozen jockeys here.
The ride of the day went to Holland’s Adrie de Vries for his last-to-first effort on Euchen Glen, though in truth it was a good day for hold-up tactics, recent rain having made this track more testing than usual.
“It’s one of those instructions: ‘Drop in last,’ that’s quite easy to translate,” said the Glasgow-based trainer, Jim Goldie. “I said to Adrie: ‘You’re either going to be clever or a villain.’ He appeared very clever. It’s a long way to Scotland [from] down here but some of the jockeys come a lot further.”
Leicester
2.10 Lightoller 2.40 Vuela (nb) 3.10 Red Trooper 3.45 Pennsylvania Dutch (nb) 4.20 Algam 4.50 Fastar 5.20 Kings Academy
Windsor
2.25 Firenze Rosa 2.55 Regimented 3.25 Paradwys (nap) 4.00 Angel Down 4.35 Major Valentine 5.05 City Ground 5.35 Razzmatazz
The Qualifiers may be only two games old but there is already a familiar pattern developing for Hull Kingston Rovers. As the wild celebrations ensued in the sunshine among the travelling supporters after this nerve-jangling victory, it was hard not to cast one’s mind back 12 months when the club were relegated in scarcely believable fashion.
That day, in the Million Pound Game against Salford, KR were arguably the better team before somehow surrendering an eight-point lead in the final three minutes and then succumbing to a drop-goal in extra-time. A year ago, many suspected the Robins were too good to go down and, at times, they played well enough to back up that theory before losing games they should have won.
This year, however, it is evident that they are better prepared for the rigours of the Qualifiers and the battle to get into the Super League next season. KR, while not playing quite at their potential just yet, are winning games and that is all that really matters.
“It’s another foot in the door, isn’t it,” said the Hull KR coach, Tim Sheens, after a victory that could have huge ramifications for both clubs come the end of the season. Rovers now know three wins from their final five games will guarantee a top-three finish and an instant return to the Super League without going through the drama of the Million Pound Game.
Here, led superbly by their two-try captain, Shaun Lunt, they had enough to maintain their unbeaten start to the Qualifiers and take another step back towards the sport’s promised land. “We’ll enjoy it but we need to make sure we back it up again next week,” added Sheens.
For Leigh, victory would have represented a major step towards preserving their top-flight status but the defeat leaves them where many suspected they would be at the start of the Qualifiers: as one of the Super League sides looking most vulnerable to be replaced by KR.
The Centurions played their part in a thrilling contest in which the lead changed hands throughout but their coach, Neil Jukes, was unhappy with KR’s match-winning try from Lunt.
“I have to watch my mouth but it’s a big game and you can’t get some things wrong but some officials did,” he said. “100%, the ball was not played correctly [in the buildup].”
At that stage Leigh led 16-14. A try from Daniel Mortimer and two goals from Josh Drinkwater had opened up an 8-6 half-time advantage before the two sides exchanged tries from Ryan Shaw and Atelea Vea to put Leigh back ahead.
The pivotal moment came when Lunt dived over – with Sheens admitting KR were “lucky” officials did not spot an error from Nick Scruton in the buildup. Leigh rallied again late on but KR survived more pressure on their line in the closing moments to hold on for a vital victory they may not have recorded 12 months ago.
A point earned with 10 men at a bloodthirsty Elland Road would normally be a source of pride but Alex Neil, the Preston North End manager, left West Yorkshire with a scowl on his face for a variety of reasons on Saturday.
On the pitch, his ire was reserved for Ben Pearson, whose brainless second-half dismissal opened Preston up to a last half an hour that they somehow survived and Pearson certainly owes Chris Maxwell, the goalkeeper, a rather large drink after a succession of brilliant late saves.
Off the field, it was the price of matchday tickets for Preston’s visiting supporters that provoked Neil into a clear-cut damnation of the value and values of modern football and he hopes it brings back into focus the cost of attending a game.
“It’s frustrating and disappointing for us and it’s naivety,” Neil said of Pearson’s dismissal after 60 minutes. “If you make silly decisions you will pick up silly bookings and you will be punished in the long term for it. I want him to play with his brains more. We stood up to the pressure and when we needed the saves from our goalkeeper he did it.”
Pearson should heed his manager’s words and football should also sit up and take notice at the wider source of Neil’s disenchantment.
“The fact [Preston’s supporters] got charged £44 for a ticket is a disgrace,” he said, clearly irked. “As far as I’m concerned it’s wrong. I don’t know if Preston have complained about it but I’m happy to complain about it just now.”
Neil can do little about Elland Road’s pricing structure but he has to do something with Pearson if he is to get the best from him. Before his first yellow card for a challenge on Eunan O’Kane, the former Manchester United academy player had already provoked the home supporters by physically picking up Pablo Hernández under his armpits after he felt the Leeds player was milking a strong challenge. His afternoon soon went downhill from there.
The first half was boisterous but ultimately fruitless although early on Chris Wood showed the occasional glimpse of why he is wanted elsewhere. Burnley offered £12m for Wood on Friday evening but Leeds rejected the request; a comforting indicator that the unruliest club in English football might finally be trying to get focused, get organised and once again get suitably ambitious.
“Chris is very important and that is why he will not leave,” Leeds manager Thomas Christiansen said.
“Many bids can come, of course, he is a good striker. But if we want to achieve something this season, you cannot sell your best players. If we want to go up, we need to keep good players.”
After the interval, it remained a contest of sustained and mutual muscle until Leeds were saved by the assistant referee’s flag close to the hour after Greg Cunningham’s close-range volleyed goal was ruled out for offside.
A minute later, Pearson then received his second yellow card for another blunderbuss challenge, this time on Kalvin Phillips, and the match was transformed as Leeds sensed it was now there to take.
In a fascinating, full-blooded finish, Maxwell produced a wonderful low save from the galloping Wood and then kept out two quickfire efforts from Stuart Dallas and Hernández before Preston nearly snatched it as Josh Harrop hit the bar in the 95th minute. It was one of those kind of games. Pearson has to avoid it becoming one of those kinds of careers.
The Olympics have traditionally been cast as a respite from from politics, danger and strife, an opportunity for the world to come together in the spirit of peaceful competition and a reminder that what brings us together as a union of five continents is stronger than what deigns to pull us apart.
Those noble ideals have been at the fore throughout the build-up to next year’s Winter Games, which kick off six months from now in the sleepy resort town of Pyeongchang, South Korea, clustered in the Taebaek Mountains – a scant 50 miles from the demilitarized zone (DMZ) that has divided the Korean peninsula for more than six decades. Even as the ever-present tensions between the countries escalated amid North Korea’s two intercontinental ballistic missile tests last month and two nuclear bomb tests last year, Pyeongchang loomed as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to bridge the divide between the neighboring nations.
No one can blame the organizers for a lack of ambition. As recently as last year, a potential co-hosting agreement that would move a number of the skiing events north of the border was put forth. There were even talks of fielding a unified team, a proposal turned down by a top North Korean sports official as unrealistic in the current political climate. Still, Do Jong-hwan, the South Korean sports minister, who has repeatedly cast Pyeongchang as a “peace Olympics”, has remained adamant in his desire to leverage the Games toward symbolic reunification.
But after a week that’s seen a pair of mercurial nuclear-armed leaders trading apocalyptic threats and fiery rhetoric in increasingly unnerving 140-character increments, it’s become clear the Pyeongchang Games will offer no refuge from geopolitics and the specter of nuclear war.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said it was “monitoring the situation on the Korean peninsula and the region very closely” and would discuss the implications of the security challenges at next month’s session in Peru, but Pyeongchang will hardly be the first Olympics to be held against the backdrop of saber-rattling and political turmoil. Proxy conflicts during the cold war between the United States and Russia prompted a series of boycotts during the 1980s, while concerns over terrorism dominated the headlines in the build-ups to Athens 2004 and Sochi 2014.
When the Olympics first came to South Korea, three decades ago in Seoul, there were fears the North would destroy a newly built dam to allow its rivers to flood the southern capital, a threat likened by military analysts to the Cuban missile crisis in the United States. Those fears proved unfounded.
While North Korea has traditionally punched above its weight in the Summer Olympics, its track record at the Winter Games is poor, with only two medals in eight appearances. No athletes from the country have qualified for Pyeongchang, with only pairs figure-skating remaining as a prospect for traditional entry at September’s Nebelhorn Trophy Olympic qualifier in Germany.
But Choi Moon-soon, governor of Gangwon province, revealed plans in June to appeal to the IOC to allow North Korea a special wild-card entry into the Games. Other plans have involved a combined North-South ice hockey team and cooperation in public performances. Said Choi: “The Olympics is a very good opportunity, so we cannot let this once-in-a-generation moment slip by.”
The South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, said last month his country’s northern neighbor would be given until the very last minute to decide on its participation, with organizers having given assurances that North Korean athletes would be allowed to travel through the DMZ into the South as a peace gesture. Said the organizing committee chief, Lee Hee-beom: “Symbolically, to maintain peace in the Korean peninsula, their participation is very important, and for the success of the Olympic Games.”
All this comes at a time when Moon, a staunch advocate for engagement with the North, has floated the possibility of a joint bid for the 2030 World Cup. John Delury, a professor at Yonsei University’s Graduate School of International Relations, stressed this end in an interview with CNN.
“The whole point of the Olympics is to use sports as a way to bridge even the most acrimonious political divides,” Delury said. “Given President Moon Jae-in’s underlying belief in the need for dialogue, reconciliation and cooperation between the two Koreas, it certainly makes sense that South Korea would try some form of co-hosting. Whether Pyongyang is capable of being engaged is a question that can only be answered by trying.”
For all the heart-stopping moments and stupefying displays of athleticism on offer at last year’s Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, it was the simple image of the South Korean gymnast Lee Eun-ju snapping a selfie with her North Korean competitor Hong Un-jong during a training session that offered us the most powerful reminder of why the Olympics still matter. The countries they represent are technically at war, but never before had a conflict that began decades before either was born seemed less significant – nor had the dream of reunification ever felt more within reach.
But as the joint brinksmanship of Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un persists, one can’t help but feel an exceedingly rare opportunity is being squandered. At the current rate, perhaps we’ll be fortunate to have an Olympics at all.
Hibernian came from behind to beat 10-man Rangers 3-2 in a pulsating but at times ill-tempered Scottish Premiership match at Ibrox.
It was first meeting between the two teams since the 2016 Scottish Cup final, when David Gray scored a stoppage-time winner to give Hibs victory by the same scoreline. Afterwards a pitch invasion had led to clashes and several arrests, and there was no little drama in this encounter.
Rangers’ Colombian striker Alfredo Morelos headed in a Daniel Candeias free-kick with only two minutes played before the striker Simon Murray levelled for the visitors.
The Rangers midfielder Ryan Jack was shown a straight red card in the 35th minute following a melee and Hibs took the lead soon after with a James Tavernier own goal.
Vykintas Slivka drove in a third in the 65th minute before Tavernier reduced the deficit with a header, but Hibs held firm for the victory.
It had promised to be so different for Pedro Caixinha’s men when Morelos, who had scored two in the 6-0 win over Dunfermline on Wednesday to open his account for the club, leapt to head in a Candeias free-kick from wide on the right, sparking wild scenes of delight among the Rangers supporters.
The stadium was still rocking when an attempted clearance from the Hibs goalkeeper, Ofir Marciano, rebounded off the Rangers captain Kenny Miller and slipped past a post.
The Hibs striker Anthony Stokes, a former Celtic player, and Tavernier of Rangers were both booked for a spat as tempers frayed.
The Easter Road side steadied themselves and began to work their way back into the game.
Miller almost made it two for the home side when his left-foot shot from 10 yards, from a Josh Windass cut-back, hit a post but Hibs raced up the pitch and Murray jinked easily into the Rangers box before sending a low drive past Wes Foderingham.
The goal was enjoyed by the Hibs manager Neil Lennon who, the last time he was at the ground in 2012 as Celtic manager, watched from the media room having been banned from the dugout for the second half by the referee Calum Murray.
This game erupted again when the midfielder Graham Dorrans reacted after a foul by his Hibs counterpart Slivka and when the referee brought some order to the chaos it was Jack who was sent packing, perhaps for raising his hands at Dylan McGeouch.
Moments later Hibs took the lead when Tavernier, in attempting to stop a Slivka shot, could only turn the ball into his own net with Foderingham clawing desperately to keep it out.
Hibs were on top and only a fine save from Foderingham from a John McGinn drive kept out number three.
The half-time interval gave everyone a welcome respite. Caixinha reshuffled into a 3-4-2 formation and the striker Eduardo Herrera and defender Danny Wilson replaced Candeias and Hodson for the second half.
However, it was the excellent Murray who came close for the Edinburgh club with two efforts on goal, a shot then a header, before Slivka increased the visitors’ lead with an excellent drive from the edge of the box.
Carlos Pena replaced Morelos to make a competitive debut for Rangers but it looked a forlorn hope for the home side.
With 10 minutes remaining Wilson’s cross from the left was headed in by Tavernier from 12 yards to give Rangers some hope but they just could not muster a third goal and it was the travelling support who cheered at the final whistle.
Speaking to BBC Scotland radio post-match, Lennon highlighted his side’s assured performance after getting over a poor beginning to the game and conceding with three minutes played.
“We didn’t start very well at all. Rangers came out of the blocks very well. I was really disappointed with the first goal we conceded from the set play,” he said. “But once we found our feet in the game we were excellent. I think we thoroughly deserved to win the game.
“We scored the equaliser and grew into the game. The red card for Ryan Jack put us in the ascendancy and we made the most of the numerical advantage. My only criticism is that we didn’t win the game by more.”
ROUNDUP
Michael O’Halloran scored two goals as St Johnstone beat Motherwell, who finished the match with eight men, 4-1. Goalkeeper Trevor Carson, captain Carl McHugh and Charles Dunne were dismissed in the second half at McDiarmid Park.
Saints secured an early advantage from Steven MacLean, and a double from on-loan Rangers forward O’Halloran could have been a hat-trick, but he missed a late penalty before Murray Davidson netted St Johnstone’s fourth goal after 90 minutes. Andy Rose scored for Motherwell after 28 minutes.
Aberdeen fought back to win 2-1 at Ross County, recovering after conceding a second-minute header from Craig Curran to come out on top with goals from Mark Reynolds and Shay Logan.
Esmaël Gonçalves almost turned from Saint to sinner as he scored the goal that earned Hearts their first victory of the new season at Kilmarnock only to be sent off after 69 minutes.
Hearts interim manager, Jon Daly, welcomed highly rated young defender John Souttar back to the fold, making his first league appearance since rupturing his achilles tendon in January.
Gonçalves was also returning to the starting lineup after coming off the bench last weekend to hit a late consolation at Celtic Park, in the 4-1 defeat. The 1-0 victory was secured in the sixth-minute with an impressive 20-yard strike from Gonçalves.
He was sent off midway through the second half after a tussle with Kilmarnock centre-back Kirk Broadfoot, who was also dismissed in a hard-fought and scrappy contest.
Hamilton also secured their first win of the season with a comfortable 3-0 victory over Neil McCann’s Dundee at New Douglas Park.
After back-to-back defeats against Aberdeen, the home side were anxious to kick-start their campaign with three points and got their reward after 24 minutes when Darian MacKinnon struck a low volley into the net beyond Scott Bain.
Steven Boyd’s flighted finish made it 2-0 on 36 minutes. Dundee’s Scott Allan passed up the opportunity to get his side back in the game by striking a penalty over the bar 12 minutes from time, before Dougie Imrie showed how it should be done from the spot to seal the home rout.
In the Championship, Dundee United beat Queen of the South 2-1 and sit top of the league with two wins, while Inverness suffered their second consecutive defeat after being thrashed 5-1 by Dunfermline. Joe Cardle scored their third and fifth goals.Nial Briggs
Southampton had hopes of welcoming a new era under Mauricio Pellegrino but this stalemate with Swansea City felt all too reminiscent of his predecessor’s reign. They had a stupendous total of 29 shots on goal but only two were on target. Playing at St Mary’s has been Southampton’s achilles heel for too long, all of last season in fact, and this was a record sixth successive home league match without scoring in front of their own supporters. It is more than 545 minutes since they last scored here, against Crystal Palace on 5 April.
The absence of any goals did little to prevent the Southampton manager’s first competitive match in charge being overshadowed by those missing parties. Neither Virgil van Dijk, the Saints captain, nor Gylfi Sigurdsson, the Swansea midfielder, featured as questions rumble on over their immediate futures.
Van Dijk was present in the stands, at least. “It is good news that Virgil was here, like all the team-mates,” Pellegrino said. “Because when you are outside the team you have to be behind them and supporting them. Hopefully he can change his point of view to be with us in the next few weeks. I’ve talked with him twice and the club was clear with him. We will repeat again the same.”
Swansea were totally devoid of any creativity and their own frustrations revolve around Sigurdsson’s elongated, but expected, transfer to Everton. “I do not think it is far [away],” Paul Clement, the Swansea manager, said. “What would be a better situation would be if the window closed before the start of the season. I don’t really understand why it goes to the end of August. You should know who you’ve got and who you haven’t got.”
There was a swell of anticipation at a sold-out St Mary’s about a new era under Pellegrino while before kick-off there was a touching tribute to the former Southampton owner Markus Liebherr, with last Thursday the seventh anniversary of his passing.
Pellegrino made one change from the Southampton team that started against Stoke City in May – Claude Puel’s final match in charge – with Manolo Gabbiadini preferred to Charlie Austin in a familiar 4-2-3-1 formation. Both of Pellegrino’s summer signings, Mario Lemina and Jan Bednarek, were on the Southampton bench. Clement, meanwhile, handed Tammy Abraham his full Swansea and Premier League debut, with Fernando Llorente absent with a broken arm. It was an encouraging start for Abraham but he was left isolated throughout.
Puel’s ultimate undoing was Southampton’s dreadful home performances last term, in which they scored only 17 league goals at St Mary’s. And while Saints seemed to have rediscovered their buzz under Pellegrino, the Argentinian was left scratching his head at Saints’ usual profligacy in front of goal. Gabbiadini grazed the bar in the opening minute before Dusan Tadic fired wide from Ryan Bertrand’s low cross.
The lack of conviction against a vulnerable Swansea backline was painful, verging on comical. James Ward-Prowse was guilty of trying to walk the ball into the net, by which point Swansea had 10 bodies defending in the box. He was, though, only one of several Saints culprits. On the brink of half-time, Ward-Prowse vented his frustrations on Martin Olsson, sending the Swansea left-back tumbling over the advertising hoardings with a brisk shoulder barge.
With Southampton’s tally of shots well into double figures with nothing to show for it, Pellegrino summoned Charlie Austin in place of Gabbiadini after 68 minutes. Tadic then let fly from distance, before Maya Yoshida spurned another great opening. Steven Davis’s whipped cross was helped on by Oriol Romeu but lurking at the back post was not Austin, but the Japanese defender who headed over. Swansea retreated deeper and deeper. Abraham’s withdrawal was met by anger from the away supporters, with the defender Kyle Bartley brought on to shut up shop. By the end, Yoshida was curling free-kicks wide of goal and Cédric Soares blasting wide from distance.
Here was a match to buck the new trend for slipshod defending and goals raining in every 10 minutes, but Tony Pulis will not be losing any sleep over that. The only goal came from a set piece, and the West Bromwich Albion manager will not have any objection on those grounds either.
His side have three points in the bag, their first win since March, and in Jay Rodriguez and Ahmed Hegazi the Baggies appear to have found a couple of players who will liven up Saturday afternoons at The Hawthorns.
Rodriguez slowed up after a lively start, ending up being booked for a foul on Ryan Fraser, though Hegazi was impressive all the way through.
A craggy centre-half on loan from al-Ahly, the Egyptian defended and distributed well, in addition to scoring the winning goal, and – considering this was his first taste of the Premier League – he could easily emerge as a cult hero with a few more games under his belt.
“He made a great start,” Pulis said. “I watched a couple of games in the African Cup of Nations and was impressed by Egypt, so we followed it up and took a chance.”
Albion supporters probably need a little more excitement in their lives, judging by the way they greeted the new season with a chant of “there’s only one Gary Megson”. Pulis’s new assistant spent four years here as manager and received a royal welcome back.
West Brom made the more spirited opening, with Rodriguez prominent in most of their attacks. The striker set up Matt Phillips for the first shot of the game, then brought the first save of the afternoon from Asmir Begovic with a crafty effort on the turn.
It took a well-timed tackle by Steve Cook to stop Rodriguez bearing down on goal after Jake Livermore’s pass had set him free, then the former Southampton player headed too high from Chris Brunt’s corner.
It was the other debutant who opened the scoring, however, when Hegazi met Brunt’s well-flighted free-kick at the far post to nod down and under Begovic. It was not a great goal for the Cherries to concede; Brunt’s delivery is usually reliable but there was little pressure on Hegazi as he reached the ball and Begovic might have reacted more decisively.
The big defender almost had a second a few minutes later, shooting hurriedly over the bar when the ball unexpectedly broke to him in a forward position, but Pulis will have been pleased to note his new acquisition continued to cause havoc at set pieces. He reached a corner first just before the interval to set up a chance that Brunt put narrowly wide, before resuming his defensive duties to clear from Benik Afobe.
The only brief chance Bournemouth had of drawing level before half-time was when Ben Foster came a long way off his line for a ball he could not quite reach, but Josh King slipped in trying to take advantage and Claudio Yacob was able to tidy up.
After 18 uneventful second-half minutes of the home side retreating into defence and the visitors struggling to break them down – now known in these parts as Walking in a Megson Wonderland – Eddie Howe did the obvious thing and sent on Jermain Defoe for the last half-hour. The 34-year-old would dearly have loved a goal on his latest debut but was not allowed a sniff. You have to work hard to force openings against West Brom at this stage of the season, and with Bournemouth not forceful or creative enough, the home defence was never really in trouble.
“They killed the game in the second half; they are tough to break down when they are in front,” Eddie Howe said. “We dominated possession but didn’t do enough with it. We were too slow and predictable.”
The nearest thing to a second goal came when Salomón Rondón brought a stoppage-time save from Begovic. While there was still time left for Foster to have to make one from Fraser, nothing ever looked like changing the scoreline. The Bangles’ Walk Like an Egyptian rang out as the players left the pitch. The same friendly sort of welcome bestowed upon Megson, but just that little bit more upbeat.
The moment Wayne Rooney craved, the reason he came home to Everton. With his sons looking on the 31-year-old marked his return to his boyhood club with a fine winner against Stoke City and an influential performance for Ronald Koeman’s new-look side. An ugly game was elevated by the romantic script.
“To score the winning goal at Goodison is a special moment,” said Rooney. “To play for this football club again is a huge deal for me and to score the winning goal at Goodison in the first Premier League game; it doesn’t get much better.”
England’s all-time leading goalscorer converted a thumping header on the stroke of half-time - as Mark Hughes feared he might - and was a quality, wily influence on the second half as he eased himself back into the old routine in royal blue. Rooney’s 199th Premier League goal was also his first for Everton since April 2004, not that he has endured a 13-year drought, of course, and he was not the only debutant to impress for Koeman. The most expensive British goalkeeper in history, the £30m Jordan Pickford, produced an excellent save to prevent Xherdan Shaqiri equalising with a 25-yard bullet in stoppage time.
“There was one player in an Everton shirt today who, from the first second to the last, was comfortable on the pitch,” said the Everton manager on his summer acquisition from Manchester United. “Every decision he made was the right one and he scored a great, great goal from a great cross by Dominic [Calvert-Lewin]. In difficult moments of the game he showed his experience, he was clever, comfortable on the ball and that was different to some other players on the pitch. That’s why we signed him.”
Everton and Rooney prospered after a pedestrian start. Stoke, with two new signings in the starting line-up, settled quicker than their unbalanced hosts with Darren Fletcher enjoying an assured debut alongside Joe Allen in central midfield.
Koeman’s decision to deploy Calvert-Lewin and Leighton Baines as wing-backs flanking a three-man central defence did not produce the pace or width he envisaged - with the notable exception of the all-important goal - and his team laboured in a tedious first half. Goodison had fallen into a stupor when Rooney suddenly illuminated the contest.
Sandro Ramírez, Everton’s other attacking recruit of the summer, released Calvert-Lewin into space on the right. The young striker was an odd choice at wing-back but he vindicated his manager’s selection with an inch-perfect cross into the penalty area. Rooney rose majestically to steer a fine header back across Jack Butland and into the same net that received his first league strike for the club, against Arsenal in 2002. The forward broke Sir Bobby Charlton’s goalscoring record for United against Hughes’ Stoke side last season and revelled in his latest punishment, sliding to his knees in front of the Park End stand. His influence grew thereafter.
Koeman switched to a four-man defence for the second half, replacing Ashley Williams with Cuco Martina and pushing Calvert-Lewin into the attack. The changes brought immediate improvement from Everton who, with greater awareness from the England Under-20 World Cup-winning striker, could have established a more comfortable lead. Twice he went for goal when team-mates were free and better placed. Rooney made his feelings clear.
“I expected to get space on the right so put a winger there instead of Tom Davies, Mason Holgate or Cuco,” the Everton manager explained. “That wasn’t how it went but that wasn’t Dominic’s problem. That was my fault. Even at 1-0 after 45 minutes I decided to change and we were much more comfortable with four defenders and had more control. It was not the best performance but we know we can do much better.”
The introduction of Peter Crouch for the anonymous Saido Berahino gave Stoke a presence and menace they previously lacked and it needed several last-ditch interventions by Everton to preserve their clean sheet. Pickford dominated his penalty area too when called upon and his late save from Shaqiri showed the value of investing between the posts.
Hughes lamented: “It was not the result we wanted but I thought the performance was fine. We had a lot of control in the first half. We needed to get to half-time but probably the only chance Everton created in the first half was a quality ball into the box for you know who. He was always going to be part of the story today. That was always the worry.”
There are title defences. And then there are Chelsea title defences. As an exercise in exploring how quickly a steamrollering champion team can be reduced to a frazzled, meandering rabble, Chelsea’s opening 45 minutes of the Premier League season here against Burnley is likely to take some beating.
A red card for the captain, Gary Cahill, on 13 minutes was followed by goals from Sam Vokes, Stephen Ward and Vokes again as Burnley produced a performance as controlled and incisive as Chelsea were flaccid.
Reduced to 10 men and 3-0 down at the break against a team they had not lost to since 1971, Chelsea did rouse themselves in the second half, Álvaro Morata scoring his first goal for the club before Cesc Fàbregas was also sent off, shown a second yellow card for a lunging challenge.
David Luiz pulled back another to make it 3-2 at the end and draw a roar of defiance around Stamford Bridge. But really this was a disastrous start for the champions, and an opening day defeat that some will suggest came heavily trailed.
It is no secret there has been discontent around the place, not least friction between manager and club hierarchy. So profound was the ambient gloom during a summer when Chelsea replenished rather than expanded their squad that casual observers might have assumed Antonio Conte’s team would start here already trailing on minus five points, or with the kit-man squeezed into a spare pair of shorts at kick-off.
The Chelsea team sheet did have an air of shoulders being shrugged towards the directors’ boxes. Jérémie Boga made his debut in midfield, nine years after joining the club as an 11-year-old and moving from Marseille to New Malden. Antonio Rüdiger started in a three-man defence and Michy Batshuayi led the attack, albeit only in name during 59 largely feeble minutes on the pitch. On the bench Kenedy emerged from his doghouse to sit alongside an assortment of kids, a record signing No9 and the substitute goalkeeper.
For Burnley Jack Cork made his debut as Sean Dyche packed the centre of the pitch. And Burnley were hugely impressive here, starting in a rush and pressing hard and high up the pitch. Albeit the game had barely got out of second gear when Cahill received a straight red for a challenge on Steven Defour. Cahill overstretched as he missed the ball. His studs were visible. Craig Pawson produced the card instantly. Modern precedents suggest it was fair, although it was hardly a vicious foul.
Moments later Vokes had the ball in the net from an offside position after a bout of headed pingpong as Chelsea struggled to rejig. And on 24 minutes Burnley went ahead via another soft goal on the weekend the world forgot how to defend. Matthew Lowton advanced unimpeded down the right and floated in a cross that was missed by David Luiz and Vokes beat Thibaut Courtois with a faint contact that dribbled perfectly into the far corner.
The Burnley end rejoiced, Dyche punched the air and Chelsea continued to play like a team still sleepwalking through the dog days of summer, astonishingly short on passing rhythm or any kind of combinations going forward without Eden Hazard on the pitch.
In the shakeup after Cahill’s red, Conte had taken off Boga and brought on Andreas Christensen to keep his defence the same shape but there was a striking feebleness to Chelsea’s right side as Burnley went 2-0 up five minutes before half-time. Not that anything should take away from the quality of Ward’s goal after a short free-kick, the left-back weaving into the area then spanking a wonderful shot into the far corner.
Things fall apart. The centre cannot hold. At least, this often seems to be the case when David Luiz is involved. Within three minutes it was 3-0: another simple cross from the right by Defour, another terrible piece of marking by the Brazilian and another headed finish by Vokes in hectares of space.
Chelsea came haring out early after the break and to their credit they rallied. Alonso had a fierce free-kick well saved by Tom Heaton. Morata added some guile, holding the ball up well and producing a neat finish after Willian’s cross from the right.
And by the end Stamford Bridge was in uproar for the right reasons as Chelsea pressed hard, Burnley hung on with great heart and the home crowd could at least cheer their bloodied champions from the pitch at the end of a wild season’s opener.
In your faces, forecasters! After a 45-year absence, Huddersfield Town strode back into the top flight of English football and immediately served notice of their intention to stick around, despite their widespread billing as certainties for relegation.
David Wagner’s team played with clever vibrancy as they heralded their return to the big time with a deserved victory at Selhurst Park, which, coincidentally, had been the scene of their last match among the elite in 1972.
If anyone resembled Premier League impostors it was Crystal Palace, who floundered in their first match under their new manager, Frank de Boer.
As the home team struggled to adapt to the style and shape being introduced by the Dutchman, who arrived only six weeks ago, Huddersfield performed with the same dynamic enterprise that gained them promotion from the Championship last season, but with extra deadliness thanks to the predatory skills of Steve Mounié. The Benin striker became the club’s record signing when he joined in the summer for £11.5m from Montpellier, and he scored two fine goals here.
“I said beforehand we will not change our identity just because we are in the Premier League,” said Wagner. “If you think you have a strength and you trust in what you are doing, then you have to do it, even at the highest stage of football.”
About 20 minutes into the game, Huddersfield were playing with such boldness that the 2,900 fans who had travelled excitedly from West Yorkshire began taunting the fretful home crowd with chants of “Where’s your famous atmosphere?” If that was the first sign that the visitors realised the Premier League might not be all it is hyped up to be, a more enjoyable one came moments later when Huddersfield took the lead by exploiting clueless defending.
Chris Schindler flicked on a corner by Aaron Mooy at the near post, Mathias Jorgensen met it just beyond the back post, and Joel Ward inadvertently nudged the ball over his own line.
Huddersfield did not get carried away celebrating; instead, they exposed the hosts’ vulnerability anew, doubling their lead three minutes later. Mooy was involved again, crossing from the left after being released by Chris Löwe and neglected by Palace’s defence. Mounié, similarly free in the middle, expressed his gratitude for the slovenly defending by banging a header into the net from seven yards out, as Patrick van Aanholt stood watching in bemusement.
Confusion was the defining characteristic of Palace early on. Some of De Boer’s selections seemed particularly awkward: Van Aanholt struggled on the left side of a three-man defence, while Ruben Loftus-Cheek looked lost on the right wing, which made the exclusion of Andros Townsend seem perverse.
The manager rectified that at half-time by introducing Townsend for Luka Milivojevic and redeploying the on-loan Chelsea player to his customary position in central midfield. Palace improved, but not enough.
Huddersfield, by contrast, were smooth, even with four debutants. Their cohesion made the home side seem all the more disjointed and their smart pressing sabotaged Palace’s attempts to swagger out from the back. One of their summer signings, Tom Ince, could have opened the scoring in the second minute but volleyed straight at the goalkeeper after being teed up by Tommy Smith.
Ince had another chance just after the quick-fire salvo that gave Huddersfield their lead but Ward thwarted the attacker with a superb last-ditch tackle. Jorgensen then headed wide from a corner as Wagner’s side threatened to rack up a humiliating scoreline.
Palace got better after the break, with Wilfried Zaha tormenting Smith so much that Wagner made a change at right-back. Early in the second half, Christian Benteke forced Jonas Lossl into his first difficult save, the summer signing from Mainz diving well to turn away a header. Actually, Lossl had also got a touch to a dangerous shot by Zaha just before half-time, but the referee did not spot it and failed to award a corner. A lack of luck was another of Palace’s problems on a dispiriting day.
Dann should have given the hosts renewed hope 13 minutes from the end but thrashed a shot over the bar after a corner. Moments later, Mounié finished a swift counterattack by guiding a shot into the net from 10 yards.
“Nobody expected that, it was a harsh lesson,” said De Boer, who attributed his team’s defeat to “wrong choices” by players during 15 first-half minutes.
Wagner burst into laughter when asked afterwards how it felt to be top of the league. “I cannot take this question seriously,” he replied in giggles.
“Let’s just focus on the performance, which was good. We were clinical today and it was a great debut for Steve Mounié – and we had a great goalkeeper, and that helped massively. This makes for a wonderful afternoon.”
It was a good time to meet Palace. And it is a great time to be a Huddersfield fan.
Ten tries to kick off the competition but 10 changes for England’s second match of the Women’s World Cup against Italy – the head coach, Simon Middleton, proving as good as his word after pledging to rotate his squad before the knockout stages.
Emily Scarratt comes into the side at outside-centre and assumes the captaincy with Sarah Hunter dropping to the bench, while four of the five players who did not feature at all against Spain last Wednesday – the lock Tamara Taylor, the scrum-half, Natasha Hunt, the flanker Marlie Packer and the livewire wing, Amy Wilson-Hardy – come straight into the starting lineup.
The hooker, Vicky Fleetwood, is the only player still to miss out – she only arrived in Dublin on Saturday because of a recent knee injury – but Middleton’s message is clear with Katy Mclean, the star performer in the 56-5 opening victory against Spain, also dropping to the bench for the Pool B match. “We have options available to us in terms of selection and running different combinations,” said Middleton.
“We want to take full advantage of the depth, talent and experience in the squad. Our aim is to continually build and improve on performance; the team have recovered well and have been working hard over the past two days to ensure we are fully prepared for the next challenge.”
The other five changes to the starting XV see Alex Matthews come in at No8 in place of Hunter and Amber Reed will start at fly-half, while Rochelle Clark is part of a new-look front-row and wins her 126th cap. Amy Cokayne and Justine Lucas get the nod at hooker and tighthead respectively. Izzy Noel-Smith, who moves from openside flanker to the blindside, is among the five to keep their places, along with Rachel Burford at No12, the second-row Zoe Aldcroft, Lydia Thompson on the right wing and the full-back Danielle Waterman.
In total there are seven survivors from the side that defeated Italy 29-15 during this year’s Six Nations, recovering from conceding an early try to Sofia Stefan. “We are expecting a tough and physical encounter,” Middleton added. “Italy have caused us plenty of problems in the past and are an incredibly talented side.”
Middleton has made no secret of the fact that he wants to keep changing his side during the pool stages – Italy lost to the USA on the opening day and England are expected to claim another comfortable victory on Sunday. Indeed, Mclean hinted after victory over Spain that Middleton’s differing starting lineups have been chosen for some time as he sets about preparing the defending champions for the latter stages of the competition in Belfast.
“The biggest message to us is that this is a 28-strong effort,” said Mclean. “And to be honest, playing five games in a World Cup, you’re going to have to because no one can be at their best all the way through. We know the turnaround and we know the order of games. It’s about making sure the recovery is good, everybody is ready to go. And making sure we’re very smart in our actions.”
In Pool A, the Wales head coach, Rowland Phillips, has made two changes to the side that lost 44-12 to New Zealand for Sunday’s clash with Canada. Things get no easier for Phillips’ side with Canada, losing finalists three years ago, dispatching Hong Kong 98-0 in their first match. “We’ll be looking to cut out the unforced errors against Canada, who are a well-organised, strong and very athletic side,” said Phillips, who has brought in Sian Moore at scrum-half and Jess Kavanagh-Williams on the wing.
“We’ve spoken a lot about taking positives out of the game against New Zealand, and that’s something we’ve been working on. As soon as we came off the pitch on Wednesday we started looking at what we needed to do to challenge what is clearly a very good Canada side”
England side to face Italy: D Waterman; L Thompson, E Scarratt (capt), R Burford, A Wilson-Hardy; A Reed, N Hunt; R Clark, A Cokayne, J Lucas, T Taylor, Z Aldcroft, I Noel-Smith, M Packer, A Matthews. Replacements: H Kerr, V Cornborough, P Cleall, H Millar-Mills, S Hunter, LT Mason, K Mclean, M Jones
The expression on Jürgen Klopp’s face as Watford celebrations broke out all around him said it all. A testing 24 hours for Liverpool, dominated by Philippe Coutinho’s emailed transfer request, ended with the sort of injury-time equaliser that drives managers insane. Miguel Britos, looking at least a yard offside, bundled the ball home from a corner in the 93rd minute, denying Liverpool the victory that would have brought some much-needed respite during the Coutinho saga.
Looking on with a mixture ofincredulity and bemusement, Klopp could have been forgiven for thinking that the world was conspiring against him as a spirited Watford side found parity. The fact that the goal should not have stood and also arrived from a corner – Liverpool’s achilles heel last season and also the source of Watford’s opener – deepened the sense of frustration.
Two points slipped through Liverpool’s fingers in the process on an afternoon when Klopp’s team missed a commanding figure in central defence much more than their absent Brazilian playmaker. What a difference someone like Virgil van Dijk – one of Liverpool’s prime transfer targets – could have made in a defence that never looked comfortable throughout. “We know we can do better and we have to do better,” Klopp said of the goals Liverpool conceded.
Stefano Okaka exposed those all too familiar shortcomings with Watford’s first, the striker’s free header from close range flashing beyond Simon Mignolet, and the defending in the lead-up to the second goal, shortly after Sadio Mané had equalised with a superb solo effort, was every bit as calamitous. New season, same old Liverpool rather sums it up in that respect.
The good news for Klopp is that Liverpool looked menacing at the other end of the pitch once they got their act together in the second half, scoring two goals in as many minutes to turn the game on its head. Roberto Firmino got the first via the penalty spot to haul Liverpool level after Mohamed Salah was brought down, and those two also combined for the third, with the Egyptian marking his debut with a goal.
Liverpool were dominant in that period and had enough chances to put the game to bed, yet their failure to take one of them – Alberto Moreno and Dejan Lovren were denied by Heurelho Gomes either side of Joël Matip heading against the bar – proved costly when Britos plundered that equaliser.
Klopp, understandably, was reluctant to criticise his players too heavily, making the point that the opening day of the season was no time to look for perfection. He admitted, though, that he was disappointed with the way that Liverpool were second best to Watford physically in the first half, and also with the lack of direction in his team for spells.
Watford deserve credit for starting so well. Okaka, in particular, caught the eye during a bright period from Marco Silva’s side. Snapping into tackles, they denied Liverpool the time and space to impose themselves and took the lead after only eight minutes. José Holebas delivered an inswinging corner from the right and the shortcomings of Liverpool’s zonal marking system were there for all to see as Okaka, with Lovren caught in no-man’s land, drifted into the six-yard box to head home.
Although Liverpool were struggling to play with any fluency, their equaliser was a beauty. Moreno, who was given his first Premier League start for 10 months, swapped passes with Mané on the edge of the area before sliding a low ball into the feet of Emre Can. Mané ran in behind, adroitly stepping over the ball before accepting Can’s first-time lay-off and curling a splendid shot into the far corner.
It was a moment of brilliance that should have had a calming effect on Liverpool, yet 161 seconds later Mignolet was picking the ball out of the back of the net again. Tom Cleverley got away from Jordan Henderson in the inside-right channel and delivered a low centre that pinballed between Trent Alexander-Arnold and Matip, gifting Abdoulaye Doucouré Watford’s second.
The pattern of the game changed after the restart as Liverpool attacked with much more conviction. Firmino dispatched his spot-kick with the minimum of fuss after Salah, racing on to the Brazilian’s pass, was clumsily brought down by Gomes. When Salah nudged the ball over the line moments later following a lovely piece of skill from Firmino, Liverpool were in total control, yet victory was snatched from them courtesy of that controversial Britos goal. “Offside,” said Klopp. “That’s really not fun.”
Sunday is Laura Muir’s so-called “fat day” when she is allowed to have the calorie-laden foods she denies herself the rest of the week. This Sunday any treats are to be saved until after the 5,000m final but will be well-earned after five races in 10 days and even more so if she manages to win a first senior global medal.
After the 5,000m heats Muir was writhing in pain metres from the finish, lactic acid crashing through her limbs. Head bobbing and arms swinging, she had willed the line to come sooner, eventually qualifying as a fastest loser.
Muir narrowly missed out on a medal in the 1500m in the week, and earlier in the season British Athletics had tried to persuade her not to double up at these championships. But Muir’s mettle has been proven beyond doubt in London, a physical and mental fortitude forged during gruelling training sessions in harsh Glasgow winters. “We do a session where you go full out for 300m, take a short break and do it four more times,” she said. “The fifth one you’re just trying to make your legs move but I guess I’ve just got quite a high pain threshold.”
Her diet, too, is punishing. “I’m quite strict in the summer, when you’re not training around races as much as you would at other times of the year,” she said. “I have to be very disciplined. But during the winter, when I’m running a lot, I have what I call my ‘fat Sunday’. I allow myself whatever treat I fancy, which is pizza or chocolate.”
There will be no let-up after the championships as Muir heads back to Scotland almost immediately to complete a placement at a local veterinary surgery. The 24-year-old is part way through a veterinary degree at the University of Glasgow, and claims the balance helps her running.
“It takes a certain personality to do both,” she said. “It’s pretty much train, school, train, school, so you have to be quite driven. A lot of athletes nap during the day and I’ve never had a nap during the day, I don’t have time, I just have to keep going.
“In high school I was more driven by veterinary because I knew how competitive it was. I got a couple of Bs in my exams but pretty much everything else was As. I got advanced higher biology and chemistry and higher in all the sciences. It means that I can understand all the science side of running.”
Muir will be joined in the final by a fellow Scot, Eilish McColgan, who ran a personal best to finish fourth in her heat. Kenya’s Hellen Obiri was the strongest qualifier but is likely to face a stern challenge from Ethiopia’s newly crowned 10,000m world champion Almaz Ayana. “The most pressure I get is from myself,” said Muir. “I know I’m better than what I ran in the heats and hopefully I can show it in the final.”
Caster Semenya, who beat Muir to the bronze in the 1500m, is a hot favourite to win Sunday evening’s 800m to add to the Olympic gold won in Rio last summer. Her continued success here is uncomfortable for the IAAF, athletics’ world governing body, which is presently trying to implement a rule that could force the 26-year-old to have hormone replacement therapy or quit the sport.
Lynsey Sharp was reinstated into the 800m final after being disqualified from her semi for what officials claimed was an illegal shove on Charlene Lipsey of the USA. “I’ve been in a lot of scrappy races this year and would put my hands up and say I did something,” the Briton said, “but I honestly can’t remember anything.”
Eight years ago, when I was sports news correspondent for this newspaper, I found myself hastily dispatched to Helskini to speak to England’s women footballers. They had reached the final of Euro 2009 and, a successful England team being a welcome novelty, we wrote of the hope that their success would change perceptions of women’s sport in this country.
Similar predictions were made after Heather Stanning and Helen Glover took Britain’s first gold during that shimmering London 2012 summer, when the Lionesses came third in the 2015 World Cup in Canada, or after nine million people watched Britain’s heart-stopping hockey victory to win gold in Rio. Yet change remained incremental rather than incredible.
But, just as the expectations of England’s women footballers were worlds apart in 2009 and 2017, so this summer has felt different.
First the ICC Women’s World Cup was clinched by Heather Knight’s side against India in front of a capacity crowd at Lord’s. Then, Mark Sampson’s England team swept to the semi-finals of Euro 2017 before coming a cropper against the swashbuckling Dutch hosts, who went on to win an entertaining final that captivated the country.
On Sunday, ITV1 will air England’s clash with Italy in Dublin, as Sarah Hunter’s side attempt to retain the women’s Rugby World Cup, having thrashed Spain in their opening match.
In a summer without an Olympics or a men’s football World Cup, these events have been able to elbow their way into the public consciousness. They have done so entirely on their own terms — and not just in Britain.
At the opening ICC Women’s World Cup dinner, the ambition was not only for full stadiums and decent viewing figures but for an ignition of interest in India - the biggest cricket market on the planet. By the final, Indian media were trumpeting huge television audiences and the Guardian’s own over-by-over live blog was hitting 600,000 page views — the majority coming from India.
The Guardian has always been more committed than most to covering the big female sports events, but the volume of our coverage, both online and in print, has visibly grown this summer. And with it, the readership.
National newspaper coverage of women’s sport was estimated, in the most recent study in 2015, at just 2% of total sport coverage. This summer, women’s sport has featured as the main article on the front page of the sports section nine times in the past three weeks, and has consistently been prominent on the sport section of the website, amid the usual transfer talk and men’s Tests.
But as the Guardian’s head of sport, the question I find myself wrestling with is: how do we ensure that continues into the autumn, as the juggernaut of Premier League football starts rolling?
There are several, intertwined, issues here. One is that all sports have to compete for media coverage, and some are more popular than others. A second is that the Guardian’s resources and space are finite. A third is that the domestic game is at a much more nascent stage — in football, cricket and rugby — than the international one.
The FA-backed Women’s Super League (WSL) has never really quite taken off in the way that its most fervent supporters hoped. But some big clubs — Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester City among them — are now fully committed and attendances are slowly growing. Yet still they remain more analogous to county cricket than even non-league football. It is a long game.
Louise Taylor, who covered Euro 2017 and the 2015 World Cup for us, reflected on her return from the Netherlands: “It felt significant that people were debating Mark Sampson’s tactics rather than whether women should be playing football, or the quality on offer. The tougher challenge for the FA though is to generate interest in the weekly slog of the WSL, particularly now it’s a winter game.”
We have made a firm editorial commitment to promote women’s sport where we can and, in particular, to make the absolute most of those big moments when the nation is engaged. But we’re also part of a patchwork that includes governing bodies, sponsors, broadcasters and fans. No part of that eco-system can manufacture interest – it has to be organically built.
But within that there are encouraging signs that momentum is building. Advertisers and sponsors are realising that backing women’s sport takes them to new and different audiences. Sport’s once stuffy governing bodies – not least the three largest in the FA, the ECB and the RFU – are realising warm words won’t be enough to turbo-charge growth and unlock major investment.
The Guardian is doing its bit by committing to more regular coverage – we recently launched a weekly women’s football blog helmed by Suzanne Wrack – and trying to prioritise women’s sport where we can. We also devote our best people to finding the most interesting stories and interviewing the most engaging, talented personalities.
But we can’t necessarily manufacture an audience for this work. One of the disheartening things about this debate is the extent to which it is still measured in old media money. Because it’s easier to measure, surveys will often take into account the number of articles and photographs in print.
That, however, discounts our hugely engaging and popular over-by-over and minute-by-minute live blogs, which are just as important – if not more so – in terms of engaging large readerships.
Our Euro 2017 coverage, in which we live blogged all of England and Scotland’s matches plus the final, was read by more than 1.8 million users. Our online women’s cricket World Cup coverage topped more than two million. We live blogged La Course and, of course, Johanna Konta’s run to the Wimbledon semi-finals.
There may be a danger that we spend more time wringing our hands over the problems than getting on with finding a solution. As Anya Shrubsole, one of those victorious cricketers, told Andy Bull earlier this summer: “Yes, we need to win, and we want to win, but the more we play in a way that people want to watch, the more of that coverage we’ll get. So I think there is responsibility for both sides, for the players and the press.”
Viewers, consumers and readers need to do their bit too. In a world where every click and interaction can be measured by publishers and advertisers, it is incumbent on those who want to read more about women’s sport to make their views known, click on the stories and vote with their feet.
“There is an old adage that says ‘you can’t be what you can’t see’ and for too long we’ve had to rely on a two-week window every four years to inspire generations of girls to want to play sport,” says Alex Danson, another of that impressive group of hockey players who won gold in Rio.
“This is clearly now changing but we still have a huge amount of work to do to make women’s sport of interest and relevance 365 days of the year, every year. Responsibility for that lies with athletes, governing bodies, the media, broadcasters and sponsors – but if we get it right everyone wins.”
That is hard to argue with. And while the numbers are encouraging, there is something else about this summer’s boom that inspires a strange sort of confidence.
In the backlash that followed England’s exit from Euro 2017, followed by more than 120,000 people on our live blog, discussions about Sampson’s tactics and the way the players appeared to freeze on the big stage contained a tacit recognition that this was nothing to do with gender – but simply about the soaring highs and crushing lows of all sport.
Usain Bolt’s final day of competition began with him anchoring Jamaica to victory in the 4x100m heats as Great Britain breezed into the final with their second fastest time ever.
The Bolt retirement party was already in full swing by 11.04am at the London Stadium when the 30-year-old took to the track for his penultimate race. He applauded the crowd after bringing the baton home in 37.95sec, to advance to the final third fastest.
“There were no added nerves,” said Bolt. “I enjoy relays more than anything. For me the energy and vibe is wonderful, it’s just brilliant. There’s no words to explain the energy the crowd gives me.”
Bolt also paid tribute to Mo Farah before the Briton had run his last ever track race in the 5,000m. “Mo has proven himself over and over,” he said. “He’s done well for his country. I’m shocked he’s going because I think there’s a lot more years in those legs.”
Adam Gemili proved his fitness beyond doubt as the British quartet finished second in their heat in 37.76sec.
CJ Ujah ran the first leg and handed to Gemili. The 23-year-old, a proven championship performer, was overlooked for selection in the 200m after begging for more time to recover from injury. But he ran a superb leg to hand to Danny Talbot with Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake – who finished fourth in the 200m – bringing the baton home.
“We really want a medal but it is the 16 best teams in the world all after a medal so we know it will be tough,” said Gemili. “But the crowd will help and this has helped put us in pole position. We are very lucky to have this crowd here in London.”
Less than 12 hours after finishing fourth in the 200m final Dina Asher-Smith returned to the London Stadium to help Britain qualify for the 4x100m final.
The 21-year-old ran the third leg, handing over to Daryll Neita who anchored the team home in a season’s best time of 41.93, just behind the USA.
“I’m always here for the team,” said Asher-Smith. “If I’m needed in here, there is no hesitation. I was fine to run after the 200m so I was happy to run again with these girls.”
Laviai Nielsen burst into tears in the call room before qualifying for the 4x400m final as memories of London 2012 flooded her mind. Five years ago the 21-year-old was a kit carrier for Jessica Ennis-Hill and the emotion of competing in the same stadium at a world championships was overwhelming.
“I just started bawling my eyes out,” she said, “I have so many memories of walking underneath the stadium at 2012 and I just realised all my dreams were about to come true.”
The Nielsen family home is only a 20 minute walk from the stadium in east London, so close that with the windows open they could hear the 2012 opening ceremony taking place. Nielsen ran a 50.5sec split on the second leg to put Perri Shakes-Drayton in a strong position with Emily Diamond bringing the baton home in a season’s best 3:27.74.
Shakes-Drayton was competing at a major championships for the first time in four years after suffering a horrible knee injury at the Moscow world championships in 2013.
“I love being back,” she said. “This is where I’m happy, I’m glad able to perform at a world class level again.”
Mystery surrounded the circumstances of Matt Hudson-Smith’s late withdrawal from the men’s 4x400m heats. Martyn Rooney anchored the team home in a season’s best 3:00.10 to qualify for the final in a fastest loser spot but later revealed Hudson-Smith had pulled himself out of the team but may be reinstated for Sunday’s final.
“As far as I’m aware Matt’s taken himself out of the team,” said Rooney. “He’s got his own issues to sort out and it’s a massive shame because he’s a super talent and has had a great championships but he needs to get his head right.”
It seems we have some dewy-eyed romantics as selectors. From Hampshire they have plucked the young wrist-spinner, Mason Crane, whose bowling average is twice his age. A fresh-faced novice of 20 is on the verge of playing Test cricket after 25 first-class games.
It is an eye-catching selection and a heartwarming story and – who knows – might have a happy ending. Whether Crane actually plays in Birmingham against West Indies is debatable. This is England’s first ever day-night Test with the devious pink ball, which sometimes gets up to tricks when the sun goes down. During the twilight hour it is the seamers who usually prevail. So Crane may not make the final XI.
But the intent has been shown and this set of selectors like pecking orders. If not Birmingham, then Headingley or Lord’s could be the venue of a captivating Test debut for the latest English leggie. When that first match comes along everyone will wish him success – against the odds.
For there is no doubt that the odds are against him. The catalogue of English leg-spinners over the last 50 years does not compare that favourably with our efforts in the Eurovision Song contest. The most successful wrist-spinner at Test level in that time was probably Bob Barber, whose primary job was to open the batting with Geoffrey Boycott. He took 42 Test wickets at 43 apiece.
Soon after Robin Hobbs, all effervescence from Essex, gathered 12 wickets in seven matches that were spread over four years at 40.08. In the 1990s they willed Ian Salisbury to succeed but, after an encouraging first outing against Pakistan at Lord’s in 1992, he ended with 20 wickets from 15 Tests at an average of 76.95. At the turn of the century, Chris Schofield of Lancashire was in the first batch of cricketers to receive a central contract. Selected mainly because he propelled the ball from the back of the hand, often a source of infatuation among selectors and pundits, he played two Tests, but went wicketless.
Then comes Adil Rashid, who took the last of his 38 wickets (at 42.78 apiece) in Chennai in December. Currently it seems that there may not be any more. He has been banished from the red-ball game having played all 10 of his Tests overseas, which surely threatens some sort of record.
Rashid has proven far more productive for England in limited-overs cricket and that is the way with wrist-spinners in the modern era. The shorter the game, the more effective they are. The most obvious example of this trend is South Africa’s Imran Tahir, who took 57 wickets in his 20 Tests at 40.24 apiece. He has long since been discarded from the red-ball game – to be replaced by the impressive finger-spinner, Keshav Maharaj – but Tahir is still a member of both their white-ball sides. In Test cricket it is not possible to bowl with four men on the boundary for any length of time.
All of which demonstrates the challenge facing Crane. The above is not designed to be curmudgeonly but to manage the expectations of a talented young cricketer. There is an element of wish fulfilment in this selection redolent of the Salisbury years. There will be those who cite the early introduction of Shane Warne to Test cricket (in fact Warne might offer up that argument himself) as an easy justification of Crane’s selection. There is a simple and obvious response to that: Warne was a one-off genius.
So, as Sir Humphrey used to say in Yes Minister causing considerable alarm along the way, this is a “brave” decision. In one sense it is, however, a well-timed one. West Indies do not possess the most powerful of batting lineups; meanwhile England have their bristling all-rounders, even more of them now that Chris Woakes is back in the squad, which gives them the flexibility to experiment with a luxury spinner. Moreover it is obviously easier for a novice to prosper in a dominant side and that is what we expect England to be against the West Indians.
By the same token this may be a good time for Mark Stoneman to make his debut – and he will definitely be in the starting XI at Edgbaston. Facing Morne Morkel, Vernon Philander (when fit) and Kagiso Rabada was a trial for Alastair Cook, let alone Keaton Jennings. Even though pace bowling may be one of the stronger suits of West Indies they cannot match the expertise of the South Africans. A couple of scores in less taxing conditions would be enough to take Stoneman to Australia and any disappointment on his part about missing out earlier in the summer would quickly evaporate.
This West Indies team is not burdened by high expectations – although they have two Hopes (Shai and Kyle) in their squad. Kraigg Braithwaite, a craggy opener who blocks diligently, is their most experienced batsman at 24 years of age. They have proven pace in the form of Shannon Gabriel and Kemar Roach. Jason Holder goes about the tricky task of leading them with composure and maturity. And they have a handy leg-spinner too, Devendra Bishoo. But at 31 he has had time to learn a few survival techniques. He might need them on chilly nights in Birmingham.
A quarter of a century has passed since ITV offered the new-fangled Premier League an outlandish £262m for the rights to continue producing Elton Welsby vehicle The Match. At which point agitated Spurs owner and set-top-box mogul Alan Sugar nipped out of the negotiating room, bellowed “Blow them aht the water!” into a nearby payphone, a Sky apparatchik appeared in a puff of smoke carrying an extra £42m, and Super Sunday became a thing. All together now: “Here we go! Hee-ee-eere we go! Here we go, here we go, here we go, here we go, this is it!”
OK, so Stephen Sondheim wasn’t available to do the lyrics. But in retrospect, that theme tune wasn’t too bad, was it? Preposterously pompous, yes, and those pounding drums at the end took longer to fade away than Hey Jude. But it got the blood pumping, whipping up anticipation of good times ahead. At which point Richard Keys would prick the bubble, informing us that we’d be in his company for a whole two hours before kick-off. Nothing personal, Richard, we just weren’t used to it. Elton had the 1989 title decider between Liverpool and Arsenal up and running within 13 minutes.
In his introduction to the very first live Premier League transmission, contested in the knowing post-modern style by Football League tribute acts Nottingham Forest and Liverpool, Keys described the host city as being blessed with “a sporting tradition stretching all the way back to Robin Hood”. A hot-topic archery joke there, Great Britain having won a couple of bronze medals in the posh darts at the Barcelona Olympics a fortnight earlier. Teddy Sheringham’s super screamer settled an otherwise soporific Sabbath, and, well, there’s always Monday Night Football to look forward to, isn’t there?
Keys guided us through that particular epoch by claiming “start-of-the-week depression” was a thing of the past. Monday was now officially “part of the weekend”, a time for “a few smiles” and some “family fun”. That wholesome entertainment included the unveiling of the Sky Strikers dancing troupe ahead of Manchester City versus Queens Park Rangers. The women cavorted to order before Niall Quinn, Ian Holloway and co did their little turn. The presenter promised “more formal introductions a little later in the programme”. Idle late‑in‑the-evening banter between Keys and 14 women in cheerleading skirts? Good luck getting that segment off the drawing board in 2017.
To be scrupulously fair to Keys, the man knew how to conduct an interview. The most famous post‑match footage of all time was the result of one simple interjection, exquisitely timed and perfectly pitched. “That’s part and parcel of the psychological battle isn’t it, Kevin?” The nuclear codes in chat form, right there. Love it.
A decade on, Sir Alex Ferguson took the eternal dialectic between artist and critic up a notch, dismissing the garden-variety probing of Geoff Shreeves as “absolute bollocks”. Shreeves had the unenviable task of nervously ordering Fergie to tone it down on the basis that kids might be watching. Any kids watching were, of course, rolling around on the carpet in front of the telly, holding their sides, unable to breathe.
The most bravura performance was given in late 2015 by Chelsea manager José Mourinho after his misfiring champions lost at home to Southampton. Responding to the staple question of the tired interviewer who just wants to get home for his tea – “What did you make of that?” – Mourinho launched into a seven‑minute Shakespearian soliloquy. “I don’t run away ... if the club wants to sack me, they have to sack me ... I want to carry on, no doubt, no doubt.” A passionate defence of his position, which no one had previously questioned, containing enough ambiguous motivation to make Iago sound like Cillit Bang’s Barry Scott. At least Keegan required a little prodding.
The Sky studio is now the domain of Gary Neville and Jamie Carragher, whose whip-smart analysis and righteous rants have made the Monday night show depression-lifting telly at long last, even if the Lancastrian rivals shtick is trotted out to a degree that Frank Randle might have found a tad too parochial.
Contemporary dance at Maine Road, the interview as psychodrama, green tactics tables, half-cut hacks shouting at each other across a table in a darkened room ... for all its faults, Sky kept pushing the envelope during the first quarter-century. But the rate of innovation has understandably slowed up. Perhaps it’s time for the new kids at BT Sport to shoulder some of the load? Its only notable contribution to date has been to fill the commentary box to bursting point, so much so that when the gantry door is opened, Darren Fletcher, Glenn Hoddle, Steve McManaman, Michael Owen and Howard Webb spill out in homage to the cabin scene from the Marx Brothers’ A Night at the Opera.
But we cut Sky enough slack. Give it another 25 years, and BT is statistically likely to come up with a few smart suggestions over the piece, too. Perhaps it could begin with one analyst interjecting with a single observation every 30 minutes or so, and only then if there’s actually something to say, much like Kenneth Wolstenholme’s sporadic sidekick Walley Barnes used to do on the BBC back in the 60s. Fashion is cyclical, everything comes back around eventually, and they can have that idea for free.
People talk about hitting the wall: the point where you exercise so hard, your body can do no more. I really wanted to hit the wall – in fact, I wanted to knock it down with a sledgehammer. Because I had been staring at this particular wall, in my kitchen, for two hours through a stream of my own eye-stinging sweat.
It was 7am and I was sitting on a race bike attached to a device called a turbo trainer that turns a normal bike into a static exercise machine. I had been sitting there, pedalling and looking at the wall, since 5am. My two daughters wandered in, unfazed by the sweaty, crazed-looking woman in the middle of the kitchen. “Morning, Mummy. Can we have letters for breakfast?”
My vest and bike shorts were sodden with sweat, the windows and back door were steamed up from the heat I had generated. I served the letter-shaped cereal, poured on the milk, kissed my children, fed the dog and popped the kettle on before walking off for a shower, grunting “Good morning” at my husband as we passed in the hall.
That is the reality of Ironman training with toddler twins, a house to run, a demanding job and a husband with an equally demanding job. And that was just the beginning of my training. It got so much tougher than that.
I have only two rules: never miss a training session or a bedtime story
There was the 18-mile training run on a hot August day on the back of a 10-hour day at work, and the day after a 105-mile bike ride and 30-minute run. And let’s not forget the 620 miles of biking, 115 miles of running and 12 hours of swimming in the four weeks before that.
Ironman is one of the most demanding and gruelling events in the endurance catalogue. A long-distance triathlon, it involves swimming 3.8km, biking 180km and running a marathon, back to back, often in very challenging conditions. Every year, a world championship is held in Hawaii and qualifying races take place around the world, though most competitors are aiming just to complete the challenge. The average time it takes is 12½ hours.
But taking on Ironman isn’t really about the race to the finish, it’s about the race to the startline. It’s about the six months of training that will test your limits mentally and physically. About making it through 4.45am starts when you have to drag yourself out of bed in the freezing cold, get on your bike and pedal 16 miles to work. About your alarm going off at 6am on a Saturday morning and your husband kicking you out of the bed, yelling, “If you don’t go and swim, you will be unbearable all day. That’s all of the day. All of it. Get out.” (He’s a very good cyclist and runner himself, so he gets it.) And the ensuing 4km swim followed by a two-hour run. Before breakfast.
It’s about doing a half-Ironman “warm-up” event a week after covering the EU referendum result (I am a political journalist – we were supposed to vote remain and it was supposed to be an easy week in the office), and the week before holding a birthday party for twin girls. It’s about pouring 19 hours of exercise into a week that is already filled with children, work and running a household, without torpedoing family life.
That is what it takes to transform yourself from a ramshackle mother of twins, hulled out by the early years, into an Ironman athlete. And the woman who transformed me is triathlon coach, former European and world champion triathlete, and nine-time Ironman finisher Fiona Ford.
Everyone is doing it. All the mums at the school gate are doing some kind of Ironman or extreme boxercise or something
We first met to discuss my chances of taking on the big one when my daughters, Grace and Amelia, were only 18 months old. I barely looked likely to make the run for a bus. I had carried twins, delivered one daughter naturally and the other by an emergency C-section that pretty much brought Kingston hospital’s maternity ward to a standstill, and was suffering from my 27th cold of the season.
I told Ford I was constantly ill, and had a full-time job, but I did swim a lot, biked to work sometimes, had run in the past and done a handful of Olympic-distance triathlons before the children. But I wanted to do something big before I was 40 – what were my chances? Unexpectedly, she told me I was in the perfect demographic.
Her first move was to get me to wear a large slab of technology on my wrist to monitor my progress by measuring heart rate, distance, time and pace during exercise. The second was to put together a training plan. Apart from my one rest day, there was never less than two hours of training.
The hardest sessions were “long ride day” (a bike ride of up to 120 miles at the highest levels of training, followed by a 30-minute run) and “long run day” (up to three hours, after a 90-minute swim). The days had to be back to back to simulate the levels of fatigue of an Ironman race.
The training itself wasn’t a problem; the challenge was fitting it in. I have only two rules: never miss a training session or a bedtime story. Train commutes were replaced with biking or running, and swim and strength sessions were done mainly after the children were in bed. The long rides and runs were done early, so I was around to do the children’s parties and activities that make up the weekend.
There were difficult moments when I simply had to lose something. On one particularly tight day, I had a five-hour bike ride, a haircut and colour booked in, and needed to be ready to pick up the children by 4pm. In the end, I had my haircut, asked the stylist to put on the colour, shoved the foils in a beanie and rocked up to the playground looking ridiculous. One pick-up and a children’s swimming lesson later, I finally washed out the dye.
Ford says my case is not unusual. She has noticed an increase in the number of women in their late 30s and 40s signing up with her coaching company, Triathlon Europe. “The Mamil [middle-aged man in Lycra] has been the main demographic in the last seven to 10 years,” she says. “But in the last three to five, it has been FMIK [fit mums in kit] that have been on the increase. It’s usually about wanting a challenge that non-sporty people will massively respect, and Ironman is regarded as an extreme sport. It’s a way for many to feel good about themselves and raise self-esteem.”
Ford also believes it’s linked to the desire to compete on a level playing field with men “in a world that increasingly hasn’t moved on to acknowledge or recognise female achievements in the ways that men take for granted”.
The Ironwoman is on the rise. And we have come a long way since 1979, when Lyn Lemaire became the first woman to line up alongside men – she came fifth at the second Ironman in Hawaii. In the past 10 years, there has been a five-fold increase in the number of women taking part in the sport and 48,718 women worldwide did an Ironman last year. The number who took part in the Ironman World Championship last October was the highest ever: 30% of the field.
At the 2016 annual Ironman UK in Bolton, 14% of the competitors were women (in 2005, it was 9%). When I lined up at Ironman Vichy last year, there were 45 women racing in my age group (40-44, the most popular group for women in Ironman competitions); in 2011, there were five.
Ford says women are at their endurance peak in their 40s, but they can also be at their busiest – as I was – so why take on the challenge?
Our generation grew up thinking women could achieve anything they wanted. Margaret Thatcher was running the country
Fellow Ironman finisher Sophie Timms, 42, also started training when her daughter was two. As head of public affairs and corporate responsibility at Zurich Insurance, she admits it was an “odd decision, because at the time I was incredibly busy”. But she acknowledges there is something of “I’ve still got it” about taking on a challenge like Ironman: “I may be 42, but I am happy my body still behaves like it’s in its late 20s or early 30s. And there is an element of feeling quite proud of yourself when people say, ‘How do you do it?’”
Timms’ story is similar to my own. She ran cross-country at school and was the county under-11 champion. I ran for my school, and then nothing. Then, in our late 20s, we both picked up running again. She ran the London Marathon in 2005; I ran it a couple of years later. We each did a few triathlons, then children happened – and after them, the urge to step up the training. “Everyone is doing it now,” Timms says. “All of the mums at the school gate are doing some kind of Ironman or extreme boxercise or something.”
Our generation grew up thinking women could achieve anything they wanted. During our school years, Margaret Thatcher was running the country. We ladetted our way through university, out-drinking and out-partying the boys, then we voted for Tony Blair’s meritocracy and his “Blair Babes”. We were going places and had high expectations for our careers.
But then we found there were still glass ceilings, pay inequality and maternity damage. For some, although by no means all, having children means a nose-dive in career prospects. I suffered a sharp readjustment post-birth, and although I did return to another demanding job, the experience was certainly the “prove yourself” trigger for my Ironman entry.
Psychologist Dr Marcia Reynolds, who wrote about the female midlife crisis in her book Wander Woman, describes how, “As [women] cope with the ongoing inequality in the workplace, their disappointments of dreams unmet and continually feeling misunderstood and mismanaged, they begin to drop off the corporate ladder.” It is then that women look for other goals to fill the void of corporate advancement. “For smart, goal-driven women, a midlife crisis isn’t about recovering lost youth,” she writes. “It’s about discovering the application of their greatness. The problem is that no one has defined what greatness looks like, so the quest has no specific destination.” She calls this phenomenon “the burden of greatness” and says it could explain the increasing numbers of women choosing to take part in extreme sports.
There’s not much that says greatness quite like a big shiny Ironman medal on the bathroom wall. And race day is like nothing else: from vulnerable to invincible, impossible to possible, all in the space of 12 hours. You hit the water before most people have had breakfast, are biking through lunchtime, and finish your marathon at about teatime.
Nothing makes me smile more broadly than when people see the medal in the loo and ask when my husband did the Ironman
I lined up at the start of Ironman Copenhagen for my first race in 2014, with my daughters’ names scrawled on my forearms in permanent marker for inspiration. As I walked down to the beach I was shaking and longing to go home, but I was the fastest swimmer in my age group and headed out on to the bike feeling great. And then the high winds picked up and I struggled to hold my bike to the road. As I came into transition to the run, by now in seventh place, the thunderstorm started. The rain was torrential, the commentator helpfully telling the crowds, “We’ve never had weather like this.”
The run was a world of pain. I wanted to stop during the first kilometre, but by the fourth had accepted this was how it was going to be. I held on to my seventh place in the group, and was 70th out of the 412 women taking part. I completed the course in 11 hours nine minutes, far faster than I imagined I could go.
I had done it. I achieved something great. But the problem with a little bit of greatness is that it wears off, and it’s not long before you need another fix. And so I did another Ironman last year at Vichy. The race was much tougher. It was 32C and I was nearly knocked off my bike first by a crazy male competitor and then by a flying water bottle. I was battered in the swim, and had serious stomach pains during the run. I had never wanted to quit anything more than that run. Ever.
But I was stopped by a high-five from one of my twins out on the run course. It was enough to keep me going. I was seventh (again) in my age group, but I was, crucially, 20 minutes faster. The field was strong. In all, I was the 30th woman out of 232, including the professionals. It was enough to earn me bronze All World Athlete status, which means I am in the top 10% of Ironman athletes in the world for my age group.
It’s success of sorts. I’m a hero behind my own front door. I love it when I hear my children role-playing mums and dads, and the mum says, “I’m just off to do an Ironman.” Nothing makes me smile more broadly than when parents at the children’s parties return from the downstairs loo to ask when my husband did the Ironman. Or when I am holding a child in each arm with a medal around my neck while my husband rolls his eyes. Because he, above anyone else, knows there will be another Ironman just round the corner.
As a good friend of mine put it, Ironman is like having children. You know when you’re done. I’m not done yet.
Get a coach You cannot wing an Ironman – you need someone who knows what they’re doing to get you to the startline in one piece. Look for British Triathlon Federation qualifications and testimonials. Better still, speak to the last two athletes they trained for Ironman.
Use time wisely If you have children, get used to training late when the children are asleep or if you work long hours. Train during your commute: in my case, biking 16 miles to work was quicker than taking the train, and running halfway home added only 10 minutes to the journey.
Get down with the tech Get yourself a decent training watch and some software; I used TrainingPeaks. My coach input my training plans and I would upload my exercise data from my watch when the sessions were completed so she could monitor my progression. I use a Garmin Forerunner 920XT, which has settings for swim, bike and run.
Sleep when you can Exercising late and getting up early for work means you won’t get much sleep, but rest is as important as training, so learn to snatch sleep when you can. If you have 30 minutes, set an alarm, lie down and kip. Don’t worry – it won’t be a struggle to drop off.
Walk everywhere Walking is a brilliant way back into fitness. Try getting out for 30-60 minutes three times a week. Do a longer walk at the weekend.
Try a parkrun This is a fantastic community running event, and it’s free. It’s a 5km run, and you can walk for a bit if you get tired. There will be some very good club runners there, but in the main it’s a family event filled with people just giving it a go. And it’s early Saturday morning, so doesn’t take up much of the weekend. Go to the Parkrun website to find an event near you.
It’s all about the core Get to a yoga or pilates class. Core stability and flexibility are key to preventing injury and protecting your back, especially as you get older. Find a class that runs early in the morning or in the evening, and go once or twice every week.
• Commenting on this piece? If you would like your comment to be considered for inclusion on Weekend magazine’s letters page in print, please email weekend@theguardian.com, including your name and address (not for publication).
José Mourinho, still living Partridge‑style in a Manchester hotel, has time on his hands. Last month he trolled Antonio Conte over his hair transplant, then tried a mind game on Jürgen Klopp. Klopp bristled back: “I’m not interested in what José Mourinho says. José is talking about us. Why should I talk about Manchester United?” Nine more months of this.
When Alf Common joined Middlesbrough for £1,000 in 1905, the press warned of an immoral slave trade “which might one day see transfer fees reach £2,000”. 112 years later, £53m Kyle Walker isn’t fazed to have raised the bar in England that bit higher. “It’s out of my hands. Whatever the two clubs decided to pay, that’s nothing to do with me.” The summer window shuts on 31 August, winter’s on 31 January. Expect last season’s spends of £1.194bn (summer) and £215m (winter) to be dwarfed.
Barcelona to Milan to Thornton Heath: #WelcomeFrank. So what to expect from Frank de Boer at Palace? Most likely three at the back, Dutch imports, youth‑team graduates, and news outlets using photos of twin brother Ronald by mistake – as Palace’s own Twitter feed managed when he joined. Other new faces this season: Mauricio Pellegrino at St Mary’s, top‑flight returns for Chris Hughton and Rafa Benítez, Marco Silva swapping one glamour job at Hull for another at Watford, and a media star in waiting: Huddersfield’s David Wagner, never shy of a set-to.
While non-league clubs get to experiment with sin-bins this season, top-level law tweaks are modest. It’s all essential knowledge, though. Among the main edits: a kick-off taker can now stand in the opposition’s half; divers can be retrospectively banned; “verbal offences” earn an indirect free-kick; an offside player can be penalised if the ball rebounds off an official; and a player who concedes a penalty with a genuine attempt to play the ball is not automatically booked. And there’s a new line in Law 5, concerning “Decisions of the Referee”. It reads: “The decisions of the referee, and all other match officials, must always be respected.” We’ll see.
Some choice new outfits this season – including a £70 third kit from Manchester United, who took the dullest elements from 1995’s “invisible” grey strip and made them more dull. The second strip has more about it, though: black with 90s-vintage graphic imprint. Arsenal, Palace, Leicester, Newcastle and West Ham also have black options – but the most debated new take is from Huddersfield: stripes with bubbly fades. When it was leaked it split the crowd: the club’s commercial manager took to Facebook to appeal for calm.
New season, new ball. This year’s is the Nike Ordem V: “a performance-orientated piece of design”, reckon Nike, featuring “Nike Aerowtrac grooves and a micro-textured casing”, “3D ink” and “Distorted Motion Graphics to flicker as the ball rotates.” Yours for £100.
That £450,000 Match of the Day salary will weigh heavily on him this year. Savour every word.
Last season’s crowd-funded £750 banner-dragging planes at away games changed nothing, and the global meme – Wenger Out banners appearing at a Singapore Coldplay concert, at Wrestlemania in Orlando, at a basketball game in Saudi Arabia, on an entrance at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, at the Ultra Music Festival in Miami and, doubling down, at a Trump Out rally in London – has fizzled. So what’s in store this season? Renting a banner plane over London airspace is prohibitively expensive; the Red Arrows are booked up. But whatever’s coming, Wenger’s relaxed. “I retain my focus. I keep my distance from criticisms.” Expect a contract extension some time in May 2018.
Three different south coast trips to enjoy this season, now with added end-of-the-pier entertainment. The Brighton experience isn’t what it used to be, though: the out-of-town Amex Stadium is slick but it’s impossible not to miss the cramped, raucous old Goldstone. It was demolished in 1997 – if you want to pay homage, it’s now a Nando’s off the A270.
Ever wanted to see more of those “bet in play now” adverts? Good news: Sky’s souped-up output this year features new dedicated, nonstop football channels launched to coincide with their big anniversary: 25 years since they invented football. It started with the live curtain-raiser – Arsenal v Leicester – in that most traditional of slots: Friday night at 7.45pm.
It’s a season compressed to make time for the World Cup – meaning a winter run of eight full rounds of league fixtures in 31 days – including 23 December, 26 December, 30 December and 1 January. Festive.
Wayne Rooney at Everton, Javier Hernández back in England, Gary Megson at West Brom, and Zlatan at Old Trafford in January. Also watch out for Sam Allardyce taking a short-term £3m contract at whichever club is 17th in February.
Critics said Mike Ashley’s 2012 payday lender shirt deal promoted irresponsible financial conduct to fans. So this season he’s gone with a casino brand instead. Clubs made a combined £280m on this season’s deals – nine of the 20 with gambling firms – and topped it up by selling new sleeve logos to secondary sponsors. Among them: Chelsea’s Alliance Tyres logo, Liverpool’s Western Union badge, and Palace’s green on red-and-blue patches promoting a Chinese football app, Dongqiudi.
The Countdown star won’t be returning to Friday Night Football after social media’s finest reacted as they do to her calling Tottenham’s loss to West Ham in May a “bottle job”. She responded: “Banter is fun, abuse is not, whoever/whatever/wherever #respect.”
Among other regulars dropping out this season is David Moyes – at least until jobs start freeing themselves up. Current favourite to be first to leave his post is Benítez on 10-3; Mark Hughes and Slaven Bilic are both 6-1.
It is not uncommon for athletes contractually obliged to address the media to sound like disciplined hostages being paraded by their captors: name, rank, serial number, monosyllables, grunts. When Wayde van Niekerk attended his press conference after winning the 400m on Tuesday night, he sounded more like a hostage with Stockholm Syndrome. “How does it feel to be the most well-known person in track and field?” an American journalist asked.
“It’s always an honour … massive responsibility … continue performing … continue winning medals … continue the great legacy … important for each and everyone to build a positive image for our sport … a massive honour and I thank the Lord every day … it’s a journey, it’s life … embrace every moment … thank the Lord.”
Nothing has epitomised the sense of desperation that lies close to the surface of the World Athletics Championships so much as the ludicrous attempt – not only by the press but also by officialdom – to anoint Van Niekerk as the new Usain Bolt. Perhaps nothing quite so mad has been seen since Australian cricket spent about half a century trying to unearth the next Don Bradman.
There was no next Bradman and there is no next Bolt, whose combination of freakish physique, focused determination and PR genius has been matched only by Muhammad Ali. Van Niekerk is a lovely mover, a seemingly honourable and sweet young man and someone whose physical and mental vulnerability is being tested beyond reasonable endurance, as if he were a real hostage.
By Thursday night, having come within a blink of an eye of completing the 400m-200m double, he needed a live-TV hug, lasting about 20.09 seconds in itself, from the BBC reporter Phil Jones before he could jabber again, and this time the desperation had fallen entirely on him: “I worked for tonight [sniffle] … just as hard as every other competitor [sniffle] … I show everyone else respect [sniffle] … I think I didn’t get respect tonight … I feel it is very unfair.”
Then he thanked God and walked sadly away. In due course he may thank God for the defeat. It may do something to deflect unrealistic expectations and allow him to chart his own course without having to do Sebastian Coe’s job and save this benighted sport from its own outrageousness.
Football’s corruption, like the Great Wall of China, can be seen from space. But at least as the season starts we can be confident that on the field there will be fair cheating all round. At these championships officials and pundits have been thanking God for the absence of world records as a sign that perhaps the sport is becoming a little less doped up. It is a sort of motif for a planet on which progress has been abolished.
London hoped for a mini-reprise of the 2012 Olympics. But athletics, served singly, cannot provide it. JB Priestley described marriage as “a long, dull meal with pudding as the first course”, a quote that came to mind on day two when the schedule, having served up Bolt and Mo Farah in the first 48 hours, had little left to offer, which explains much of the pressure that was heaped on poor Van Niekerk.
This is not easy to remedy. You cannot easily Twenty20-ise athletics: “Hey, the 100m is way too long – can’t we make it 25?”
Much of the narrative has revolved around exotic gastric viruses, as in the tropics. Yet the weather has been parodically British: 2012 took place in a fine spell after a dismal midsummer; this time the reverse has happened. I have had wetter sporting experiences than Wednesday night in the stadium (Pontypool rugby, Folkestone races, where you could get drenched at the back of the stands); I have been colder (Nottingham Forest). But it is hard to remember wet and cold combining quite so malevolently, at least not in August.
The crowd trudged through the beckoning lights of the shopping centre, past a joint called Potbelly and a branch of Fatface, getting damp even under the roof, out on to a route that was like the steeplechase course in reverse – one long watersplash with the occasional island. If there was an Olympic-style party scene round that windswept and dystopian open space known as the park, then I never found it this week (story of my life) but colleagues assured me they never found it either.
Nonetheless, the turnout has been very good, if not quite a sell-out (£155 Sunday night tickets were still gettable through the official website on Friday). This should ensure the event is not a financial disaster, as will the price of the wretched stadium food: not very hot dog + not very hot Bovril = £8.50.
I first realised that Londoners were now willing to put up with, and turn up to, absolutely anything at Will and Kate’s wedding in 2011. It became obvious, talking to the crowds on the streets, that this was not a massive outpouring of support for royalty: it was an expression of an urgent need, by people who experience life through screens, to be part of something, no matter what. They would have been just as happy to watch the monarchy overthrown.
This was followed, most obviously, by the mass suspension of disbelief that constituted the Olympics as well as the vast numbers who stood all day to watch several seconds of the Tour de France in 2014 and the huge crowds that support American football’s increasingly frequent invasions of the capital. The public manifestations of Corbynmania may fit the same template.
The BBC coverage of the week started at peak hysteria (“We’ve got the rights to something! How special is THAT?”) but seems to have become more measured. The commentariat have still been at pains to praise the knowledgeable crowd, and indeed the spectators do seem to have grasped the essentials: that the medals are normally won by those who travel the fastest, jump the highest or throw the furthest, and any variation on that usually comes to light only after they have all gone home.
Frankly, athletics is either very simple or exceedingly technical, and there is not much scope for the kind of halfway-house knowledge possessed by followers of most sports.
The shortage of British medals has obviously been a calming influence: “It’s another fourth for Great Britain!” This takes one back to the balmy days of Olympic reporting when it was possible to go out for a dinner that did not comprise tepid dogs and Bovril without fear of missing yet another British gold.
Is there perhaps a growing realisation of the extent of the con-trickery that lay at the heart of the entire London Olympics phenomenon?
On Friday the Directory of Social Change, a charity that services the voluntary sector, issued a press release to mark the 10th anniversary of what it called “the Big Lottery Fund raid”, the diversion of £425m earmarked for charities to finance Olympic costs. This was supposed to be repaid by the sale of Olympic assets after 2012. “So far,” said Rachel Cain, senior researcher at the Directory, “little has been sold off to reimburse the Lottery.”
The middle-class takeover of the East End was happening anyway. And we now know the fate of the promised post-Olympic boom in sporting participation.
The age of Blair and Cameron, the PR PMs, is over and the country is notionally governed by a woman who has some trouble grasping public relations at all. One advantage of this may be the end of an era when Britain treasured gold medals for their own sake, and funded elite sport and stadiums at the expense of necessary facilities.
Every time I have looked at a medals ceremony this week, the honours were being handed out by a member of the IAAF council. Lord Coe and his No2, Sergey Bubka aside, they tended to look exceedingly well-fed: no stadium grub for them. Perhaps they worry about their deeply troubled sport, perhaps not too much.
Over the weekend we can all sit back and say a final farewell to Bolt and Farah. And that is unmissable. West Ham can then return to their stately home, a gift from a generous nation. And the rest of us can return to watching something else on our multiple screens, and paying occasional visits to Potbelly and Fatface.
The joy of Newcastle United’s return to the Premier League with Rafael Benítez appears tarnished by Mike Ashley’s puzzling parsimony while Tottenham’s Mauricio Pochettino has transfer market problems of his own. No matter; this remains an enticing, and intriguing, fixture, particularly as Spurs will presumably want revenge for their 5-1 thrashing here in May 2016. Given the chasm in quality between the two squads few are respecting a repeat of that scoreline; indeed Benítez would probably be happy with a point in front of another full house. Louise Taylor
Kick-off Sunday 1.30pm
Venue St James’ Park
Last season n/a
Live SSME/SSPL
Referee Andre Marriner
Last season G28, Y97, R2, 3.61 cards per game
Odds H 4-1 A 4-6 D 3-1
Subs from Darlow, Krul, Colback, Hanley, Lascelles, Lazaar, Hayden, Diamé, Aarons, Mbemba, Haïdara, Gámez, Mitrovic, De Jong, Murphy
Doubtful None
Injured Sterry (groin, 26 Aug), Yedlin (hamstring, Sep)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y80 R3
Top scorer (last season) Gayle 23
Subs from Vorm, Son, Carter-Vickers, Janssen, Wanyama, Wimmer, Loft, Son, Walker-Peters, Maghoma, Harrison
Doubtful Wanyama (knee), Son (broken arm)
Injured N’Koudou (foot, 26 Aug), Rose (knee, Sep), Lamela (hip, Oct), Trippier (ankle, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y62 R0
Top scorer (last season) Kane 29
Manchester United lost only once at home last season but 15 draws meant they finished sixth. One of the draws was November’s 1-1 with West Ham so what José Mourinho does not want is a repeat. Losing to Slaven Bilic’s side would be unthinkable but having spent £75m on Romelu Lukaku, £31m on Victor Lindelof and around £40m on Nemanja Matic this should not occur. Jamie Jackson
Kick-off Sunday 4pm
Venue Old Trafford
Last season Manchester United 1 West Ham United 1
Live SSME/SSPL
Referee Martin Atkinson
Last season G27, Y90, R3, 3.56 cards per game
Odds H 1-4 A 12-1 D 4-1
Subs from J Pereira, Romero, Blind, Tuanzebe, A Pereira, Lindelof, Martial, Smalling, Lingard, Carrick, Fellaini, Mata, McTominay, Mitchell
Doubtful None
Injured Shaw (ankle, Sep), Young (hamstring, Oct), Rojo (knee, Jan), Wilson (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y78 R2
Top scorer (last season) Ibrahimovic 17
Subs from Adrián, Collins, Byram, Snodgrass, Fonte, Masuaku, Fernandes, Haksabanovic, Henry, Pask, Browne
Doubtful Lanzini (knee)
Injured Antonio (hamstring, 19 Aug), Sakho (back, 26 Aug), Carroll (groin, Sep), Kouyaté (knee, Sep), Feghouli (hamstring, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y78 R5
Top scorer (last season) Antonio 9
Briefly, the principle of bouldering is, there is a wall about five metres high. And you are a person, without ropes or harnesses, your only specialist equipment the shoes (which you can hire). The wall has knobbly bits poking out, colour-coded by difficulty. It is wildly exhilarating to reach the top, then – always – there’s a flash of panic when you realise, like a dog that’s run into a field of bulls, that you’re now five metres up a wall.
I started doing it a year ago because I was in love (it could have been worse; it could have been motorcross). It’s a good novice wheeze – you can get to the top on your first go – but it’s not intuitive, so I stalled at “totally rubbish, enjoying self” for a long time. There was a really experienced climber there, Louis Parkinson, who did lessons, but he was so good that it seemed disrespectful to ask, like asking Galileo to be your idiot children’s maths tutor. He’s just set up a coaching network, Catalyst Climbing, whose mission is to make it more accessible, so I sometimes have lessons now and don’t feel so bad about it.
The first thing I learned is that every move is sacred, as it all takes energy; a move you could do at the start of a climb would be utterly beyond you after you’d been clinging on for five minutes. You have to plan it from the ground before you start, which is like turning a high-pressure hose on your brain. All the moss and gunk, the to-do lists, the anxieties, it all vanishes. The climb itself demands a kind of gymnastic strength, balance, coordination, and builds muscle in the weirdest places: your shoulders but also your thumbs; your thighs but also the backs of your calves. There’s just enough risk to make you feel heroic, and the jeopardy makes you push yourself way beyond anything you could manage with willpower.
I’m not an elegant climber, but in some moments I feel like Spider-Man. Louis, 25, looks like Spider-Man – insanely strong and long-armed, he can hang off a wall apparently for ever. He loves the movement, and the excitement, and the imagination. “It’s almost completely open to all. The two people pushing the boundaries of the sport right now are a 15-year-old American girl and a 40-something British man.” Try it, I implore you: it’s like doing a sudoku with every square inch of your mind and body.
Climbing gives you muscles in the weirdest places – my thumbs have never been so strong
Western Bulldogs coach Luke Beveridge believes his side is still right in the AFL finals hunt despite a 48-point loss to Greater Western Sydney.
The coach conceded Friday night’s 16.9 (105) to 7.15 (57) loss at Etihad Stadium could prove costly, but with 11 wins, he feels the Dogs are still in control of their own destiny.
“Maybe (it could be costly), but if we win the next two we’ll be pretty close,” Beveridge said.
“But tonight would have been a pretty handy one just to get us that leg-up.”
The Dogs were on a four-game winning streak going into the match, but were soundly beaten in the second half by the rampaging Giants.
The Giants led a see-sawing contest on Friday night by four points at halftime then surged to a win on the back of six unanswered goals in the third quarter.
Jonathon Patton set the tone early with three first-quarter goals - he finished with four - as the visitors established a 10-point lead at the first break.
The Bulldogs managed to snatch the momentum back in a blistering opening to the second quarter, but wasted their dominance with wasteful kicking for goal.
Luke Beveridge’s men led the inside-50 count 18-1 at one stage, but only managed 3.6 for the term to trail by four points at halftime.
Dylan Shiel (30 possessions), Josh Kelly (25 disposals and two goals) and Stephen Coniglio (25 touches) were important as the Giants made their move in the third.
Tony Greene, who was loudly booed by most of the 30,672 fans throughout, booted his second goal shortly after his clash with Dahlhaus.
Kelly added two of his own in the telling quarter as GWS leapt out to a 38-point lead at the last change.
With the sting out of the game, Tory Dickson scored the Bulldogs’ first goal of the second half, 24 minutes into the final term, but it was far too little too late.
“I don’t feel like we’ve regressed ... we’re still hanging in there,” Beveridge said.
“The boys have had to put up with some challenges, and they’re doing their best, but it’s not going to help if we don’t use the Sherrin well enough.”
The Dogs enjoyed a lopsided 65-34 inside-50 count and Beveridge bemoaned his side’s inability to make the most of that dominance.
“Their strike rate going inside 50 was off the charts and ours was the polar opposite,” he said.
“We played with reasonable method at times, but (poor) skill and decisions really hurt us.
“We were encouraged by some of our play but ultimately the margin tells a story ... we’ve just got to move on.”
The Bulldogs will look to get their finals campaign back on track when they host Port Adelaide in Ballarat in round 22.
Even if they beat the Power they will most likely need to defeat Hawthorn the week after in what is likely to be the last game of Luke Hodge’s career.
Meanwhile, Greater Western Sydney coach Leon Cameron has leapt to Greene’s defence after the forward was reported in the Giants’ big win.
In his first game back from a two-match ban, Greene faces his third suspension of the season after he was reported for rough conduct in a third-quarter incident with Luke Dahlhaus.
Greene’s right boot caught Dahlhaus in the face in a marking contest, sending the Bulldogs’ midfielder off with blood streaming from a cut.
“I understand there’s going to be a lot of hysteria about Toby,” Cameron said after the match.
“But clearly he has got his eyes on the ball so what he’s done is protected himself. He’s got his eyes firmly placed on the footy.
“These little unfortunate things happen in footy.
“Obviously the powers that be will look at it ... but they need to judge Toby Greene on his merits.”
Greene has been fined twice this year and missed a total of four games through suspension - two games for striking the Dogs’ Caleb Daniel in round six and another two for striking Richmond’s Alex Rance.
The latest incident was a rare lowlight in a strong second-half performance from the Giants, who strengthened their hold on second spot.
“It was a terrific win,” Cameron said. “I’m really proud of the players because they haven’t experienced much Friday night footy in Melbourne when the spotlight is right on you.
“No doubt our form has been up and down, but we’ve won our last three games now, which is pleasing.”
GWS take on West Coast at Spotless Stadium in round 22.
Arsène Wenger expressed his relief that Olivier Giroud, widely considered this summer to be either on the move or a player destined to be not much more than a supersub, remains very much at the heart of life at Arsenal.
The Frenchman’s thunderous header completed a thrilling comeback for Arsenal on the opening day of the season, and the idea that any suitors might lure Giroud away was met by “a determined no” from Wenger. “He’s fantastic,” the manager added. Giroud had been linked with an exit during the summer, and Wenger admitted he considered allowing his most authentic target man to leave but the 30-year-old resisted the idea.
“I opened the door for him at some stage as I had many strikers and it’s important for him to play but I don’t want him to go. In the end he decided to stay and it was one of the great days of the recent weeks for me. I know how important he is not only as a player – he’s a fantastic player – but also in the group he has a big weight. It was a relief for me he decided to stay. Giroud in his prime is at the top of his game.”
Giroud’s matchwinner crowned a breathless game to kick off the new season. The combination of brute strength and balance to hold his position while he was being pulled plus the technique to steer in a thumping header was the kind of action not many of his Arsenal team-mates are capable of. The arrival of Alexandre Lacazette for a club record fee was supposed to spell the endgame in north London for a player who has divided opinion, but Wenger was pleased to imagine room for both – plus a handful more – in his attacking crew.
Lacazette scored on his debut against Leicester City, but Arsenal needed four goals in total to win a wild game shaped as much by loose defending as attacking brio. Craig Shakespeare described it as “hard to take” to be on the receiving end of a 4-3 defeat having contributed so much to the encounter. “At the moment I have a dejected dressing room,” he said. “To come here and score three has to be pleasing but it doesn’t feel like it. When we get back and reflect on the goals we scored and how compact and disciplined we were and the game plan, I thought it worked very well. We want to be as competitive as we can in a tough Premier League.”
José Mourinho takes so many swings at so many perceived enemies that it is easy to forget there are times that he may be right. As his final season at Chelsea spiralled out of control, Mourinho flailed in all directions: at referees, at his medical staff, at opponents, at the media and eventually at his own players.
But with retrospect a couple of his jabs look well-directed. “I gave my club the report of the season projection on 21 April,” he said after the defeat by Crystal Palace in August 2015. “This is a moment for everybody to assume their responsibilities,” he added during his seven-minute monologue after the loss to Southampton. He had highlighted targets and the club – specifically the transfer committee comprising the director of football Michael Emenalo and the directors Marina Granovskaia and Eugene Tenenbaum – had failed to deliver them.
Nobody expects a similar collapse from Chelsea this season but now, as then, they begin their defence of the title after a Community Shield defeat by Arsenal following a summer of barely explicable stagnation and frustration. It is two and half weeks since Antonio Conte landed in Beijing on Chelsea’s pre-season tour and explicitly outlined how thin he felt the squad was. Since then no further players have been signed and even Gary Cahill, the image of the uncontroversial solid club pro, was moved after the Community Shield to point out the disparity in the length of the squad lists on the back of the programme.
The players who have arrived – Álvaro Morata, Tiémoué Bakayoko and Antonio Rüdiger – essentially replace players who have left (or are apparently leaving). A tight squad worked last season because Chelsea were lucky with injuries and had no European football. They cannot hope to get away with it again.
Chelsea have excelled in recent years at selling players at a profit, often when they have barely made an appearance and the aim to make the club self-sufficient is a laudable one. But their strategy clearly has flaws. The squad might look rather healthier had Nathaniel Chalobah and Dominic Solanke not become so disillusioned their lack of game time that they left, and had Tammy Abraham (among a host of others) not been sent out on loan, but given their departures, there is a clear lack of cover at wing-back, in the creative midfield positions and at centre-forward.
A small part of the mess, it should be acknowledged, is of Conte’s making. Had he not sent Diego Costa that text in June telling the striker he was not in his plans for next season, then he would at least have the option of the 28-year-old. Costa burgled late goals in both Chelsea’s first two games of last season to get them off to a decent start; with Eden Hazard injured and Morata settling in, that sort of streetwise opportunism might have been quite useful this time round as well.
As it is, Costa remains in limbo, his probable transfer to Atlético on hold because of their transfer ban. But in a sense of more long-term significance than the specifics of who will conjure goals for Chelsea is the issue of why Conte sent that text in the first place. Perhaps it was just clumsy diplomacy, a desire to make a clean break. The striker’s level, after all, had dipped significantly after January when a mooted transfer to China didn’t materialise – only five of his 20 league goals came in the final four months of the season.
Even then it seems strange that Conte, who does not seem a man to shirk confrontation, would choose to text rather than meet face-to-face or phone.
There is a danger with Chelsea of seeing Machiavellian games at every turn, of assuming the spirit of Mourinho has so permeated the walls at Stamford Bridge that nobody does anything without an ulterior motive, but it does not seem a ridiculous explanation to suggest the text may have been meant to force the club’s hand. The text leaked, as Conte must have known it would, and once it did, it became all but impossible for Costa to remain at Chelsea. Even then, Chelsea allowed themselves to be gazumped for Romelu Lukaku.
Conte is clearly unhappy about transfer policy. His comment, “You have to ask the club about this,” when asked last Friday about the sale of Nemanja Matic to Manchester United made clear what he thought. He followed that up this week by describing Matic as “a gross loss, a great loss”.
His post-Community Shield performance, meanwhile, was a masterpiece of passive aggression, refusing to take questions about the make-up of the squad on the grounds he had answered the same questions two days earlier. If all managers refused to answer questions they have recently addressed, most clubs could probably get away with two or three press-conferences a season, as Conte must be well aware: a point was being made.
With Hazard and Bakayoko ruled out for the start of the season, and with Chelsea facing Tottenham, Everton, Arsenal and Manchester City before the end of September, the deficiencies in the squad have been brought into sharp relief. Conte is clearly unhappy, and the squad at the moment looks frankly inadequate. As and when new signings arrive, there will be enormous pressure on them to settle instantly.
Once again Chelsea begin a season as champions far closer to crisis that seemed possible in May. And this time, Mourinho cannot be blamed.
Today’s Shergar Cup has lost its star attraction, following the announcement that Michelle Payne is still too ill to compete. The Australia, who gained worldwide fame in 2015 as the first woman to ride a Melbourne Cup winner, had reported herself as feeling ill since shortly after arriving in Britain on Wednesday.
She tweeted: “ Devastated I’m not well enough to compete in the Dubai Duty Free Shergar Cup. Medical advice is a 5 day recovery. Had been a massive goal.”
“It is with great disappointment that because of a virus I have contracted since arriving in England, I find I am unable to ride in the Shergar Cup competition today,” Payne said in a statement released by Ascot racecourse.
“I saw the doctor yesterday and we had both hoped the medication prescribed would kick in, but unfortunately that has not been the case and I am not well enough to compete today.
“I had been looking forward to being part of this special event for a long time. Joining the girls’ team had been had been a major goal of mine over the last 12 months, since missing the opportunity due to injuries sustained in a fall last year. I would like to thank everyone for their support and encouragement and would love to return another time.”
Newbury racegoers may still get a chance to see Payne in action next Saturday, when she is expected to ride Kaspersky in the Summer Mile. She rode the horse to be fifth at big odds in a Group One at Royal Ascot this summer.
Anthony Delpech, who recently became South Africa’s champion jockey for the third time at the age of 48, could prove the star of this Shergar Cup and has live chances in both the last two races at Ascot. The pick of his five mounts is Lualiwa (4.00), who has an excellent chance in the Sprint race that closes the novelty card.
While this counts as a very belated British debut for Delpech, he has racked up vast experience at home and in Hong Kong, where Vengeance Of Rain was among the winners he rode. Nothing in these six handicaps would match that one for class but Lualiwa is at least progressive, having won his last two for the resurgent trainer, Kevin Ryan.
Versatile as to ground, Lualiwa was last seen making all the running at York under the apprentice Lewis Edmunds. An extra 6lb should not stop him.
1.05 Ascot: Stake Acclaim did not cope as well as his stablemate, Lancelot Du Lac, with a poor draw in last weekend’s Stewards’ Cup. But he had been in fine form before that and may be seen to better effect in this much more winnable heat, with Jamie Spencer up.
1.40 Ascot: Some cut in the ground seems to help Swashbuckle, whose defeat of Sternrubin at Salisbury looks like good form in this context. His jockey is Neil Callan, who used to be one of the busiest jockeys in Britain but is based in Hong Kong these days.
1.55 Haydock: Having broken a long losing run last time, Dance King still looks handily treated and might now be one to stick with.
2.15 Ascot: Hayley Turner has landed a right chance in Mukhayyam, who comes here as the winner of his last two. Tim Easterby’s charge is almost back to his peak rating but has been finishing as though there is more to come.
2.30 Haydock: Unbeaten in three, Laraib is the sexy one here but this is a significant step up in class from handicaps. The relatively late-blooming Autocratic might be a better bet at a bigger price, for all that the form of his Brigadier Gerard success has not worked out brilliantly.
2.50 Ascot: Michelle Payne’s best chance comes aboard Early Morning, a winner under Turner at the last Shergar Cup. The grey can be forgiven his Royal Ascot flop, as he seems to do better in smaller fields.
3.25 Ascot: Delpech gets the leg-up on an interesting outsider in the Classic. Glenys The Menace bumped into a good one when held by Time Chaser at Sandown on Thursday but had won her previous two.
3.40 Newmarket: Silvestre de Sousa is an interesting booking for Richard Fahey’s extra-speedy Dance Diva, whose unbeaten run was halted only by the extremely good Nyaleti. She can pay a compliment to that rival by landing this Sweet Solera.
Ascot: 1.05 Stake Acclaim (nb) 1.40 Swashbuckle 2.15 Mukhayyam 2.50 Early Morning 3.25 Glenys The Menace 4.00 Lualiwa
Redcar: 1.30 Silverlight 2.05 Bassmah 2.40 Questo 3.15 Our Charlie Brown 3.50 Ventura Secret 4.25 Polar Forest 5.00 Vindicator
Haydock: 1.55 Dance King 2.30 Autocratic 3.00 Briyouni 3.35 Sea Of Grace 4.05 Fire Brigade 4.35 Gabrial The Tiger 5.05 Show Palace
Newmarket: 2.00 Peace Trail 2.35 Gold Town 3.05 Anythingtoday 3.40 Dance Diva 4.15 Khamaary 4.50 Plutonian 5.20 Rolling Maul
Lingfield: 5.10 Hats Off To Larry 5.40 Ocean Drive 6.10 Global Exceed 6.40 Global Wonder 7.10 Velvet Charm 7.40 Glenamoy Lad (nap) 8.10 Ptarmigan Ridge
Ayr: 5.50 Haymarket 6.20 Dr Richard Kimble 6.50 Hamidans Girl 7.20 Fast Act 7.50 Maulesden May 8.20 Dark Crystal 8.50 Schmooze
To the certainties in this world being death and taxes, maybe weather delays should be added when it comes to the US PGA Championship. Perhaps the upcoming switch of this event to May is a smarter idea than anybody has given the PGA of America credit for. Someone, somewhere appears deeply against the tournament in its current position.
Suspension of play, shortly before 5pm local time on Friday, ensured a sixth such scenario in a row at this championship. Menacing skies delivered the predicted storm, with tournament officials encountering their latest organisational headache as they seek to conclude this major on time. At least they have been in this movie before. A wider danger resonates in more ominous forecasts on Saturday and Sunday.
Spectators were urged to evacuate Quail Hollow on the halting of play as lightning approached. Golf did at least resume, 100 minutes after being stopped.
Only the elements could – briefly – halt Hideki Matsuyama. Japan has surely never been closer to hailing a male major champion, a matter emphasised as he charged through the second-round leaderboard. The man who shot 61 to win at Akron on Sunday produced six birdies in 15 holes, including four in a row, in moving to seven under par, one adrift of Kevin Kisner. Matsuyama returned to the course to better that position, tying the lead with a birdie at the 17th before taking four at the last to complete a 64.
Matsuyama was not alone in making progress, even if his was the most striking. Jason Day, who offered such a grim analysis of his golf before striking a ball here that it sounded impossible he could compete, instead blasted himself into contention. Another major champion, Louis Oosthuizen, also lingers promisingly behind the leaders. Matsuyama, though, is the clear and present danger to all as he pursues national history while in the form of his life.
What Rory McIlroy does not know about this venue is probably not worth bothering about. His assessment of what will or, more pertinently, will not transpire over the weekend is therefore telling. “A low round here used to be a 61 or a 62,” he said. “A low round now is a 66 or a 67. You’re playing your ass off to get that. I’d say if I shoot two 67s over the weekend, I’m going to have a really good chance.” McIlroy has posted both 61 and 62 here in previous tournament play.
“This is not the Quail Hollow we have gotten to know over the last 10 years,” he added. “It’s a completely different golf course. Even if they didn’t do anything else with the golf course and just changed it to full Bermuda [grass] like it is now, all of a sudden it makes the golf course two shots more difficult.”
The popularity or otherwise of alterations to this course will be a matter of future debate. It is highly unlikely any player will enjoy a procession towards the Wanamaker Trophy despite the early touch of Kisner. The 33-year-old, who has never recorded a top-10 major finish, signed for back-to-back 67s for an eight under par total.
If McIlroy’s matching 72s look uninspiring, the Northern Irishman was in grave danger of missing the cut after four bogeys in five back-nine holes. The two-shot recovery emphasised McIlroy’s willingness to battle.
As McIlroy scrapped, one of his playing partners flourished. Rickie Fowler, who is yet to add a major title to his otherwise stellar CV, posted a second round of 70 to move to three under. His prominence is all the more impressive given a triple bogey seven in the early stages of day one, which threatened to derail his challenge.
“You don’t want to get ahead of yourself,” said Fowler. “This week I’m going to have a good chance. The thing is I have got to manage that properly.
“I have to stay patient. I have to go through the process, make sure we’re making the right decisions on each hole with each shot. With the way I’ve been playing, how I’m swinging this week and last week going into it, I know I can win this week. It’s more in between the ears, and not get ahead of myself. If we do that, it will be all right.”
There will be no successful defence byJimmy Walker. His 69 could do no more than get him back to plus eight. Phil Mickelson also departed North Carolina earlier than he would have hoped, at 11 over. This was his first missed US PGA cut since 1995. “I’m not really focused out there,” said a despondent Mickelson. “I’m having a tough time controlling my thoughts and not letting them wander to what I don’t want [to] happen.” Amateur golfers the world over know the feeling.
Darya Klishina was accused of being a traitor to her nation when she was the only Russian athlete allowed to compete at the Rio Olympics. A year later she became her country’s darling again as she ended a compelling long jump competition with a silver medal. The Russian’s leap of 7.00m was a season’s best but it was agonisingly short of the American Brittney Reese’s 7.02m that brought her a fourth world championship gold medal.
“I’m really glad and I’m really happy,” said the 26-year-old Klishina, who is one of 19 Russians competing as neutral athletes in London. “This is my first medal from a world championships and, for me, it’s my most important result. I didn’t jump seven metres for six years and I just missed those longer jumps.”
She was not allowed to wear Russian clothing or celebrate with her country’s flag, due to IAAF regulations, but her smile at the end of the competition showed her delight. “I wanted to show this result in an Olympic Games but I did not have a chance with the whole situation around me,” she added. “Now it was the right time, at a world championships, to jump this. I had no nerves – for the first time in my life. It was good for me and I could be focused on just my result.”
The top four athletes were separated by only six centimetres, with the American Tianna Bartoletta taking bronze in 6.97m, one centimetre ahead of Ivana Spanovic. Britain’s Lorraine Ugen, who had been talked up as a medal chance, was frustrated after fouling four of her first five attempts and ending up in fifth place with 6.72m, the same placing she earned in 2015. “I wanted to come out here and get a medal,” she said. “Throwing away so many jumps by fouling and not getting everything together is disappointing. My runway just wasn’t quite clicking.”
There was more disappointment for Britain in the men’s hammer where Nick Miller could finish only sixth in the final behind the Polish gold medallist, Pawel Fajdek, despite a throw of 77.31m which was close to his personal best.
Better news for the home nation came when Lynsey Sharp successfully appealed against what looked a harsh disqualification in the women’s 800m semi-finals when she was accused of pulling back the American Charlene Lipsey. She qualified for Sunday’s final as a fastest loser. But there was frustration for Adele Tracey and Shelane Oskan-Clarke, who both missed out after finished sixth in their respective heats.
In the semi-finals of the men’s 1500m Chris O’Hare looked to have plenty in the tank in making it through to Sunday’s final after finishing fourth. “It’s the most deeply rooted confidence I’ve ever had,” he said. “I talked with my psychologist at the start of the year to develop what we call Matthew Centrowitz confidence – confidence beyond belief. Previously it’s been superficial.”
There was chaos in the women’s 3,000m steeplechase when the Kenyan Beatrice Chepkoech forgot to take the water jump early in the race and had to run back. The mistake cost her any chance of a podium place and the race was won by the Olympic bronze medallist, Emma Coburn, a 33-1 underdog, who powered away to become the first US woman to win a global steeplechase championship.
Dina Asher-Smith has endured her fair share of pain this season with a gruelling recovery from a broken foot but the agony of missing out on 200m bronze by seven hundredths of a second should not cloud the scale of her comeback.
The 21-year-old would surely have won her first global senior medal had her season not been decimated by a fractured navicular bone in February. But she lowered her season’s best by half a second to finish fourth in 22.22sec as the Dutchwoman Dafne Schippers defended her title. In another couple of steps Asher-Smith would have run down Shaunae Miller-Uibo, the Bahamian. And with another couple of months’ training under her belt, who knows what might have transpired.
“I was coming down the home straight thinking, ‘Oh my god, I didn’t know I was in this sort of shape’ but then to see I missed out on bronze by seven hundredths of a second is gutting,” said Asher-Smith. “In sprinting terms that’s quite a lot but not when you’ve broken your foot. I’m quite frustrated but on reflection I’m pleased to have run a 22.2 on very little training.”
Rain started to fall just as the women entered the London Stadium and Asher-Smith got a characteristically flying start, rounding the bend in third. Miller-Uibo, who suffered a Devon Loch style collapse metres from the line in the 400m final, pulled ahead but Asher-Smith began to claw back the ground.
“I didn’t even have placings in my mind in the blocks,” said Asher-Smith, who broke her foot in a freak training accident and spent six weeks on crutches. “I know it sounds so silly but I was honestly just so happy to be here. The crowd were getting louder and louder when I was coming down the home straight and I thought ‘That probably means it’s going quite well, so just keep going.’ It’s my best finish ever in a world final but so close.”
Asher-Smith is the fifth British athlete to have finished fourth in these championships, more than any other nation. Callum Hawkins, Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake, Kyle Langford and Laura Muir are the others to have suffered medal near misses. It means Great Britain languish equal 13th in the medal table, with only Mo Farah’s 10,000m gold to fill the cabinet, but Asher-Smith sounded an optimistic note.
“We’ve had a lot of fourth places but most of those have been by people who are so young who probably have another decade in them,” she said. “They might not have got a medal now but they’re definitely going to be ones to watch in the years to come.”
Alongside recovering from injury, Asher-Smith completed her history degree at King’s College London, graduating last month with a 2:1. She paid tribute to her team, especially her coach, John Blackie, afterwards. “They’ve believed in me every step of the way and I honestly wouldn’t have been able to bang out a 22.22 if it wasn’t for them,” she said.
Schippers never looked like relinquishing her title, crossing the line in 22.06. Marie-Josie Ta Lou of the Ivory Coast took silver in a national record 22.08 with Miller-Uibo’s time 22.15.
“It is very special,” said Schippers. “I fought for it and worked very hard this season and chased everything, I had to dip on the finish line because it was difficult to see where Ta Lou was from two lanes away. There were so many Dutch fans in the stadium, all wearing orange. To do it two times in a row is brilliant.”
Well, that escalated quickly. On a wild, ultimately triumphant night at the Emirates Alexander Lacazette’s first three touches in the Premier League went as follows: kick-off, goal, kick-off. At the end of which Arsène Wenger’s latest club record signing had been treated to an uncut hit of pure, unfiltered Arsenal-dom, the very essence of late Wengerism crushed into the space of 270 giddy seconds.
By the end a match that might have finished nine-three or 12-all and which contained every Arsenal emotion from giddy, brittle hope, to giddy, brittle collapse had ended in a rollicking 4-3 home victory marked out by a carefree disdain for the prosaic disciplines of defending. And all of this on a deep blue north London evening before the season has even started for 90% of the Premier League. Hello Arsenal my old friend. I’ve come to talk with you again.
Take a long look, Alex. There is more of this, much more. Stage one: the hope. There are dream centre-forward debuts. And then there is scoring with your first touch in open play as Lacazette did after 90 seconds here.
All it took was a smart little shimmy away from Wes Morgan and Harry Maguire and the coolness to stop and wait in his own small square of Emirates green as Mohamed Elneny curled a cross in from the right.
Lacazette flexed his neck and flicked a poacher’s header into the corner past Kasper Schmeichel’s flailing hand. The home crowd erupted, luxuriating in a deep gurgling bath of welcoming applause as the new man – who cost £52m from Lyon, £10m more than Mesut Özil – emerged from beneath his team-mates’ embrace.
After the hope: the deflation. If Lacazette’s start felt perfectly scripted, then the best scripts also tend to contain a dollop of uncomfortable truth. Within 90 seconds Leicester had equalised. Everyone in an Arsenal shirt ignored Maguire, the most unignorable object inside the Emirates not wearing a green dinosaur costume. His header back found Shinji Okazaki and the ball flashed past Petr Cech on his line.
Next up stage three: the crumple. No doubt Lacazette will have studied his new team even before he joined.
But in practice there is nothing quite like the real thing and here Lacazette got the full nose-frazzling dose of Arsenal snuff as the sense of new eras dawning was shredded by an opponent scenting weakness and gouging it open with a beautifully pure sense of purpose. Granit Xhaka gave the ball away. Marc Albrighton crossed instantly. Jamie Vardy smashed it home from six yards out.
As Leicester’s support erupted, the home crowd turned a little green and seasick. “You’re just a ground full of tourists,” the Leicester fans sang as the game became scrappy, Arsenal’s attacks foundering a little too often on glitches in Mesut Ozil’s passing mechanics. But they are not really. They have just seen quite a lot of this around here, a crowd caught in a constant state of angsty conflict with itself.
And of course, after the downs comes the gloss of hope. With seconds left in the first half and most of those present steeling themselves for the traditional half-time boo, Danny Welbeck equalised, strolling through to tuck the ball past Schmeichel. Both new signings, Lacazette and Sead Kolasinac, were involved in the goal.
And Lacazette did look sharp and ferrety even in that chaotic first half, sniping in to steal the ball high up the field and lurking on the last defender with some purpose.
He also spent quite a lot of time being bumped and jostled by Maguire and Morgan, whose steady metamorphosis into a large piece of handsomely upholstered industrial furniture supported by a dinky pair of legs continues apace. This is to be expected.
Lacazette will take a while to adjust. A goal and a win will give him breathing space. Beyond this, what to make of a victory that was spirited and full of attacking vim but which also framed the fault lines that will surely be exposed again under the weight of the Premier League slog?
The final twitches of this game, after Vardy had made it 3-2, saw a genuinely strange (and of course depleted) Arsenal defence, with two left-backs in the centre, a right-back at left-back and a midfielder at right-back. Meanwhile up front the combined craft of Lacazette, Olivier Giroud, Özil, Aaron Ramsey and Theo Walcott kept on suggesting something else, a team half-glimpsed, flickering just behind the fuzziness of late-Wenger Arsenal.
Their slickness and drive was rewarded with, first, an equaliser from Ramsey and then a wonderful headed winner from Giroud to wrench the night back Arsenal’s way and send the home fans into a state of transport at a wonderfully entertaining Premier League frolic.
Welcome Alex. Strap yourself in. Coming up next: more, much more, of various shades of the same.
Celtic were not at their best but proved too good for Partick Thistle in a 1-0 Scottish Premiership win at Firhill. The visitors scored in the 24th minute when the midfielder Olivier Ntcham’s shot took a deflection off his captain, Scott Brown.
The defending champions, with a Champions League play-off first-leg tie against Astana to play on Wednesday, dominated for large spells but found creating chances increasingly difficult, giving battling Partick hope all the way to the final whistle.
After starting with five teenagers in Celtic’s convincing 5-0 Betfred Cup win over Kilmarnock in midweek the manager, Brendan Rodgers, brought back experience with his eight changes.
James Forrest replaced the striker Leigh Griffiths as the main attacker with Brown, Mikael Lustig, Nir Bitton, Jozo Simunovic, Ntcham, Callum McGregor and Scott Sinclair also coming into the starting lineup.
Partick signed strikers Miles Storey and Conor Sammon earlier in the day and the latter, on a season-long loan from Hearts, started up front while Storey, who arrived from Aberdeen on a two-year deal for an undisclosed fee, was on the bench.
Thistle, captained by Kris Doolan, were soon chasing as Celtic quickly got into their passing game. In the ninth minute Tomas Cerny made a decent save from Forrest’s drive on the turn inside the box, after Sinclair had sliced through the defence with ease.
The breakthrough came after Cerny made a fine save from Bitton’s curling free-kick from 25 yards at the expense of a corner. Jonny Hayes’s cross was cleared but only to Ntcham and the 21-year-old French midfielder, signed from Manchester City in the summer, fired it straight back in with the ball appearing to come off Brown before it passed Cerny.
It was all too comfortable for the champions at that point and they came close to a second when Brown headed a Lustig cross on to the roof of the net. Six minutes after the break Kieran Tierney robbed Steven Lawless and drove into the Partick penalty area only to drag his shot wide of the far post, seconds before Doolan headed a Christie Elliott cross over the bar when he should have scored.
Storey replaced Doolan and, before Chris Erskine came on for Lawless, Rodgers replaced McGregor and Hayes with Griffiths and Tom Rogic. That double substitution energised Celtic, who would have doubled their advantage in the 70th minute had Callum Booth not headed Simunovic’s header from a Griffiths corner off the line.
Thistle were emboldened in the final stages, which gave Celtic opportunities on the break, but Cerny was largely untroubled and there was a late and unsuccessful penalty appeal from the home fans for a Bitton tackle on Storey.
If you were to judge him by body language alone you would not think Antonio Conte was a manager currently in possession of the Premier League title. The man who blew away all competition in his first season in English football spent much of his final press conference before the new season hunkered low, his forehead furrowed, his eyes beaming a combination of wariness and ennui.
Three months after winning the league his Chelsea side are down in numbers and it is clear the Italian wants more names in his squad. He will start the season not only without Nemanja Matic, sold to Manchester United for £40m, but missing Eden Hazard and Pedro through injury. He will not talk about Diego Costa, last season’s leading goalscorer who has been frozen out of the first team and is now in legal dispute with the club. He insists his side are not the favourites to retain their crown. Yet the suspicion remains Conte enjoys the adversity he believes his club to be facing. That, in fact, he thrives on it.
“At the start of the season it’s simple to tell that in this league there are probably six top teams and they should fight for the title,” is how Conte summed up the Premier League challenge, which begins for Chelsea at home to Burnley on Saturday afternoon. “I think honestly if you have to give an evaluation on paper, it’s right to not put Chelsea as a favourite. It was the same last season for Chelsea; no one believed we could win the title. This season, in this moment, I agree with these people who think this.”
Contained within these remarks is a reminder to the Chelsea hierarchy to get a move on in recruitment. There is also a degree of expectation management, not only acknowledging that Chelsea will have additional Champions League fixtures to contend with this season, but also the more simple fact that retaining the title is hard; as his predecessors Carlo Ancelotti and José Mourinho (second time around) found. But the line “no one believed we could win” is just as telling. If those outside the club want to doubt Chelsea’s capabilities, then they are welcome to. They may just come to regret it.
Danny Rose and Danny Drinkwater this week joined the lengthy list of names to which the champions have been linked this summer, alongside ongoing targets such as Juventus’s Alex Sandro and Internazionale’s Antonio Candreva. Conte would not talk about individuals – “the club knows very well my opinion” – but he was happy to make a broader point. “If you have the possibility to spend money and improve the quality,” he said, “I think this is right way to be competitive and fight for something important.”
In the absence of new signings Conte’s main message was to stress his support for the group currently at the club. Those players loaned out, he said, had gone for a reason despite what his rivals, such as Arsène Wenger, may suggest. For the Arsenal manager Chelsea had enough players already on their books to fill any gaps, but chose to lend them out. For Conte: “If the club sends a player on loan for development, that means the club thinks the player is not ready to play for Chelsea.”
What that means for those young players who have not yet gone out on loan – from the Denmark defender Andreas Christensen to the Belgium Under-21 midfielder Charly Musonda – is unclear. It depends, Conte said, on their ability to deal with consistent pressure, the kind their manager seems to put naturally upon himself.
“It’s not easy when you speak about pressure,” he said. “With me I am used to it. With young players they are not used to it. It’s very difficult to judge young players only through the training session. But at the right moment you have to take risks because you haven’t other possibilities.” Again, the coded message.
One young player who does look likely to earn Premier League minutes is Michy Batshuayi. The striker was bought for £32m from Marseille last season but played only the smallest of roles for the senior side until a late flourish brought four goals in the last five matches of the season. With Álvaro Morata still being given an in-depth introduction to the Conte way, the Belgian looks set to lead the line in his stead.
“I think this is a great possibility for Michy,” Conte said. “He is playing every game from the start and it is very important for him to play, and to play well. Michy is putting 120% into every moment during training and in the game. For sure we are talking about a young player and he needs to develop, but he is trying to put his best in every moment of the day.”
As for Morata: “He needs time to understand, to adapt to our style. Álvaro is working very well, improving his physical condition a lot in the last 10 days, and he is starting to understand what I want from him in the game. For me the striker is a really important role and it’s really important to understand what I want from the position.”
Demanding more from his players, from his board, from himself, and doing so constantly; this is the Conte way. The phrase “120%” was the most common motif in his last address before the season begins. It is a sizeable increase on the traditional 110%, and surely deliberately so.
“At the moment I signed a new contract I decided to stay to work for this club to give 120% every day for my club and my players,” he said. “For sure it will not be easy in this part of the season but I do not want to find any excuse for me, my staff or my players.
“In my career I always work with real pressure and it’s normal. The most important thing is to face that pressure in the right way. Sometimes it’s really serious but it’s also important to have laughter sometimes too. Not so much, but sometimes.”
Liverpool’s resolve to keep Philippe Coutinho remains intact despite their anger at the Brazilian’s attempt to force a move to Barcelona by emailing a transfer request. Coutinho’s demand to leave was rejected by Liverpool as relations soured between the playmaker and club on the eve of the new Premier League season.
The Brazil international emailed a transfer request on Friday to Liverpool’s sporting director, Michael Edwards, in direct response to a statement from the club’s owner, Fenway Sports Group, that he will not be sold this summer. Barcelona have had two bids of £72m and £90m rejected for the 25-year-old in recent weeks and are expected to return with a third in light of Coutinho, who signed a five-year contract in January, agitating for a transfer.
The Liverpool manager, Jürgen Klopp, and club officials are seething over a move that has overshadowed the start of their season at Watford on Saturday. Coutinho is unhappy that FSG has refused to negotiate with the Spanish giants over a possible transfer and publicly stated he will not be sold at any price in this window. Equally there is anger on the club’s part that Coutinho submitted a transfer request having been told in face-to-face meetings with the owners and Klopp that such a move would not be entertained.
The FSG president, Mike Gordon, held talks with the Brazilian last week in Munich, where Liverpool were competing in the Audi Cup, to reiterate the owner’s determination to keep him at Anfield. Klopp had a similar conversation with the player in Hong Kong after Barcelona’s opening bid was dismissed, with Coutinho and his agent, Kia Joorabchian, being made aware of FSG’s resolve throughout the summer.
Liverpool’s owner went public with that resolve on Friday when it issued a statement that reflected what Klopp has said repeatedly about Coutinho’s future. “We wish to offer clarity as regards our position on a possible transfer of Philippe Coutinho,” it said. “The club’s definitive stance is that no offers for Philippe will be considered and that he will remain a member of Liverpool Football Club when the summer window closes.”
Coutinho retaliated a few hours later by emailing Edwards. A “family friend” of Liverpool’s No10 was then quoted by Sky Sports News as saying: “Philippe has tried very hard to find an amicable solution to the situation but to no avail. He has tremendous love for the club and its fans but, like Steven Gerrard and Luis Suárez have pointed out in the past, Liverpool does not let its players leave on amicable terms.”
The transfer request caught Liverpool completely by surprise given their conversations with Coutinho and the fact that, while expressing a wish to join Barcelona, he had not agitated for a move before the FSG statement.
The player reported as normal on Friday to Melwood where he received treatment on the back injury that has ruled him out of the Watford opener and possibly Tuesday’s Champions League play-off first leg against Hoffenheim. Liverpool expect him to act professionally despite having the transfer request rejected.
At a press conference to preview the Watford game, held before Edwards’ inbox received Coutinho’s email, Klopp admitted: “I can’t keep players happy” but later expressed confidence his prized asset would not push for a transfer.
The manager said: “I have known him for 20 months and that’s the only thing I can say about this [he wouldn’t agitate for a move]. There is actually nothing else to say about it. The player is not in team training. I don’t go to the medical department every day and ask things like that. It is completely normal. Nobody comes to me every day and says: ‘Oh my God! Phil!’ We speak about the injury. That is all.”
Klopp also reiterated his belief that Barcelona moved too late in the transfer window for Liverpool even to consider selling Coutinho. “Talking in general, I had to sell a lot of players in my managerial career. Some had clauses, some had no clauses; we had the Lewandowski thing and that was difficult when he went to Bayern on a free transfer. A lot of different things.
“The only thing I can say about this is that in life everything is about timing – whichever club asks early enough. It’s like how we do it. If we ask early enough, we try to do it. If you ask early enough, you can either switch the plan or whatever. But you cannot come up close to the start of the season with things like this.
“The club is bigger than anybody. That is the most important thing. It’s about doing it in the right moment. It’s how we do it when we want to bring players in. It is about timing. That is how I understand. And that is all I have to say. Maybe everybody has a price – in the right moment. In the wrong moment? No price.”
Klopp, meanwhile, has confirmed Simon Mignolet remains his first choice goalkeeper for the new season. “In this moment it is Simon one, Loris [Karius] two and Wardy [Danny Ward] three. That is not a decision for the next 20 years, things can happen, but I am as confident as possible that if one gets injured we still have really good options.”
Mauricio Pochettino said he has forgiven Danny Rose for comments that criticised Tottenham Hotspur’s lack of transfer activity and cast doubt on the player’s future, and has stressed he wants the left-back to stay.
The defender gave an interview in which he said Spurs should steer clear of acquisitions that “you have to Google”, but on Friday Pochettino named several players who would not have become top-class performers if the chance to rise from relative obscurity had not occurred.
“When you sign players like Eric Dier, who nobody knew, or Dele Alli, who was in League One. I don’t think it’s a matter to joke about because with some of the international players today, maybe one or two years ago, none of us knew them very well.
“If you remember five years ago, people asked: ‘Who is Pochettino?’. They may have used Google or Chrome or Yahoo. Then they all looked straightaway to the penalty [he conceded against England for Argentina in 1998]. That killed me.”
The latter statement was a rare injection of levity during a briefing that, in a notable departure from his usual behaviour, Pochettino conducted almost entirely in Spanish with interpretation from his assistant, Jesús Pérez.
That has rarely been necessary over the past couple of seasons as his command of English has improved; Pochettino explained it away by saying he was tired but his defensive tone heightened the sense he feared adding to the uneasy situation Rose’s remarks may have exposed.
“You need to understand that he gave his opinion,” he said, when asked whether it was a problem that Tottenham players are generally not paid as much as their peers at other top-six clubs. “And then to know you need to ask every single player if they are happy or not happy. I don’t understand why I have to answer this question. The player has shown regret and apologised for what he said regarding everything.”
Rose’s public show of contrition on Friday afternoon brought forgiveness from Pochettino, the manager confirming Rose remains in his plans and saying, “The moment he apologised everyone moved on”. He would not comment on the suggestion Rose may have simply been saying what others in the squad were thinking.
“You can judge the situation,” he said. “Because if he apologised for what he said, we don’t know if he is [still] thinking the same thing or not. Him, not the team.”
Pochettino went on to reject any idea of unrest and said: “I think the team are very united. You have access to the other players so you can ask them.”
Among Rose’s comments was that, when his next contract is agreed, “I will make sure I get what I am worth”. In fact the England international signed a new five-year deal at Tottenham last September; Pochettino explained he has no role in deciding players’ salaries – a situation in contrast to the more hands-on approach of his counterpart at Arsenal, Arsène Wenger.
“I leave that to the chairman, I’m not involved in negotiation,” he said. “Wenger has the capacity to decide to give contracts and do whatever he wants to do as he’s been there 22 or 23 [sic] years.”
Pochettino expects to augment his squad before the end of the transfer window and has not ruled out making additions on the final day. That would appear to place extra pressure on any arrivals to settle quickly but he feels it has not been a problem in previous seasons.
“I’m not worried,” he said. “I don’t want to compare us with other clubs, who have made signings before us in the previous two seasons and [then] we have finished above them.”
On the surface it has not been the smoothest of weeks to prepare for a Premier League opener at Newcastle but Pochettino, who saw his team record an encouraging 2-0 friendly win over Juventus at Wembley last Saturday, believes his team’s focus remains resolute.
“I’m relaxed, because when you see the team and the players they are so focused,” he said. “We were focused from the beginning of pre-season to challenge and try again to prepare ourselves to compete in a very tough league, I think the toughest in the world.
“When you see the team so relaxed, so calm and so focused to prepare for the game on Sunday then that is the most important thing for me to feel. If I feel that, how can I be nervous?”
José Mourinho believes Manchester United can win the title, despite starting the season at a similar level to last summer – with the arrivals of Romelu Lukaku, Nemanja Matic and Victor Lindelof offset by injuries to Marcos Rojo, Luke Shaw and Ashley Young.
United play West Ham at Old Trafford on Sunday and Mourinho has all his new signings available but is without last season’s top scorer, Zlatan Ibrahimovic. The Swede suffered a serious knee injury in April and is out of contract.
United finished sixth last season but did qualify for the Champions League by winning the Europa League. Asked about their ambitions, Mourinho said: “Yes we can win [the Premier League]. The Champions League is obviously more difficult. But also the motivation is higher. My work last season to face teams in the Europa League with commitment was hard, this season it is not hard to motivate for playing Real Madrid, Barcelona, the top English teams, Bayern Munich and Juventus.
“In the Premier League I’d say seven teams will fight for the title and 20 fight for the victory in every game, every match. That’s different to the three other leagues [Portugal, Italy and Spain] I have worked in. Every opponent wants to win every match, every opponent gives you a hard time.”
Despite having signed Lindelof, Lukaku and Matic, Mourinho wants a fourth addition in a wide position but will not complain if that does not happen. “I was thinking of four players but I am not a difficult person to work with, even if it looks different, or you want to make it look so,” he said. “I understand the reality of the market, of the numbers. My club is doing 75% of what I initially asked very well. I don’t think I am in a position of moaning, crying, contesting or saying I am not happy.”
On the prospect of re-signing Ibrahimovic once the 35-year-old striker has recovered, Mourinho said: “We are having conversations and discussing the possibility of him staying for the second part of the season.”
The manager admits United’s lack of goals from players other than Ibrahimovic at No9 caused “trouble” last season. “The challenge is to win more matches than we did, by scoring more or conceding less, I don’t know. [We] lost only one match at home and in cups never lost, but too many draws. It would have been better to lose two or three but win three or four more and then have six or eight more points and then a different position in the table. We had lots of dominance at home, lots of chances, lots when the match should be two or three nil2-0 or 3-0 and in the end was 1-1.
“What I had in other clubs was more players scoring goals, what we had was midfield, wingers scoring, central defenders scoring goals at set pieces. We always had more goals with the winger, the midfielder getting 10 goals, central defender getting five goals and last season that didn’t happen much. We were focused on strikers scoring goals and when it didn’t happen we were in trouble.”
Last season Chelsea, who became champions, and Liverpool, who finished fourth, did not have European football to contend with. United were in the Europa League, which they won and so will play in the European Cup this year. Mourinho believes that as all of the teams who placed 1-to-7 are in Europe this time it will even the league out.
“The top seven are all in Europe,” the 54-year-old said. “Last season two were not. This time we are all in the same basket and it will be the same for everybody. Some okay have the luck to play Tuesday or Wednesday, Saturday or Sunday, but in the end the same number of matches. There is no advantage for anyone.”
Mourinho has claimed the championship at all of his previous clubs he has led in a second season. But this does not mean he will necessarily repeat the feat. “It’s not because I have always done it that I am going to do it,” he said.
“There’s no guarantee because I always do. I just think naturally a manger in the second season knows the club and players better. Not the league [in my case] because I have been in it a long time. We are just in a position to do quality work better than in the first. It’s not just hope – I’m convinced that the quality of the team will be better, I have conditions to deliver a better one than the first. If that means results and title then [good].”
Eliaquim Mangala could earn a surprise reprieve at Manchester City after the defender returned to training with Pep Guardiola’s squad, though Samir Nasri, Wilfried Bony and Jason Denayer are all set to leave as they are not involved with the main group.
Mangala was bought for £42m from Porto in 2014 but uneven form caused him to lose his starting place. The 26-year-old spent last season on loan at Valencia.
While City are still open to offers for him, Guardiola is involving Mangala with the first-team squad and the France defender could yet stay at the club. City lack depth at centre-back where Vincent Kompany, John Stones and Nicolás Otamendi are the only senior options.
If Mangala did remain at City it would be a significant turnaround in his fortunes given he has not featured since a 1-1 draw at Swansea City in May 2016. Nasri, Bony and Denayer all appear to have played their final games for City, though. The trio are not part of Guardiola’s plans and, it is understood, are training away from the squad.
City finished third last season, managing 12 clean sheets, five behind the division’s best of Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur. Guardiola has moved to improve the defence over the summer by signing the full-backs Kyle Walker, Benjamin Mendy and Danilo. Yet he also pointed to problems in attack.
“Yes, of course we’ll try [to defend better],” he said. “But the season that just happened wasn’t just about what happened in our box. We just made it [a strike-rate of] 60-70% for chances we created and that’s poor. We’ve tried to buy good defenders but also creative players and strikers to score more goals.”
Guardiola failed to claim any silverware for City, the first trophyless season of his managerial career. The head coach has to ensure his side are serious title contenders this season or it could be his last.
Yet he said: “It’s the same pressure as I had last season. We are here to win the games and titles. The big fail now takes one week in football. The second week the people want a new [manager] for the next games. I’m honest in my job. I will do my best like I did last season. If the club decides he is not able, we are going to take a solution. I feel the same pressure as at Barcelona when I arrived. People say in first press conference we are favourites. We have to deal with that and handle that. We are going to see at the end of the season what happens knowing how difficult it is.”
Guardiola will not change his style. He said: “If you see the team last season and this season, the four [pre-season] games we played, the fundamentals are the same. But we cannot forget that when we do something better than last season it’s because we’ve been one year together. If we do something good this season it’s because we were together last season, and we know better, and I know better, and they know me better, and that’s why it’s easy. I would like in three or four passes to score a goal, but sometimes it’s not possible and you have to move them [the opposition] a little bit more, and because our strikers are not Peter Crouch, our strikers are completely different, they are not strong in the air.”
Morgan Schneiderlin is a graduate of the Ronald Koeman school of blunt talking. “You can buy as many players as you want,” he says of the unprecedented investment in Everton’s first team and the possibility of six new faces featuring against Stoke City on Saturday. “But if you don’t have a good performance, it’s for nothing.” Time, then, for the manager’s new-look team to start gelling.
The Premier League opens amid greater optimism than usual this year at Goodison Park, where season tickets sold out three months ago, though it has been tempered in the past month. Since Wayne Rooney became Everton’s sixth summer signing on 9 July, only the free agent Cuco Martina has arrived and Koeman’s frustration that three transfers remain outstanding – Gylfi Sigurdsson, a new striker and left-sided defensive cover – was evident following Sunday’s friendly against Sevilla. “I heard every time that ‘Everton is spending £100m, £100m, £100m’, but I saw the list and I think we’re 16th in the league for spending and we got £95m for Lukaku,” he said. “We’ve only spent £7m. It’s a different picture than the media is talking.”
Koeman’s argument ignores the growing wage bill but his team’s performances have strengthened his case that expectations do not tally with the current make-up of his squad, even in pre-season. Everton were pedestrian in both legs of their Europa League third qualifying round win over Ruzomberok of Slovakia and the manager’s search for balance, creativity and pace continued during the 2-2 draw with Sevilla. Schneiderlin’s optimism remains intact, however, and he objects to what he believes is a rush to judgment.
“You can’t judge us now,” says the French midfielder. “You will have to judge us by September or October. First of all the transfer window is not finished and I believe we are going to add more players before then. Also, I don’t think one player in the Premier League is going to be 100% and reaching his peak on the first game of the season. I don’t think one team is going to be 100% either. I don’t think it’s possible to judge us yet. You can do in a couple of weeks but not now.
“Since Sunday I have heard a lot of remarks about pace. You have to judge that but I think we have good players. Like I said, we will see on 31 August what players are going to come in but, for the moment, it looks good. Of course we need one or two more pieces to get the puzzle right but it will come.”
The 27-year-old was part of the first wave of big spending by Everton this year when he arrived from Manchester United in a deal worth up to £24m in January. What he was sold then by Koeman, the chairman Bill Kenwright and the major shareholder Farhad Moshiri has been backed up by this summer’s recruitment.
“I spoke with a few clubs in January and then, when I spoke to Everton, they told me straight away that they have ambition, that they wanted to do something great in the summer to improve the team and to break into the Champions League in the next few years,” says Schneiderlin. “So I was very convinced by the way they were speaking and the way they see things. That’s one of the main reasons I came here.
“It’s very nice for the football club. I think for a long time Everton didn’t get as many players or have as much transfer activity as this season, so it’s very exciting for the club. It’s very nice to read about in the paper and everything but now it’s about talking on the pitch. Everyone can be excited but now it’s up to us, the players, to do the job.”
Even without a successful resolution to the Sigurdsson saga and quest for a new striker, Koeman faces a challenge to integrate half-a-dozen signings into a team seeking to improve on last season’s seventh-placed finish. Schneiderlin believes recruiting players with European and international experience will hasten the process.
But with games against Manchester City, Chelsea, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United following Stoke in the Premier League, and a Europa League play-off against Hajduk Split home then away on Thursday and Thursday week, the demands are constant.
“It will take time,” cautions the former Southampton and United midfielder. “We need to know each other better, to know players’ movements, their strengths, their weaknesses and where they like the ball to be played. It takes a bit of time to get there and you need the games but we also need to do it quick because the season starts now. You could see in the friendlies and the Europa League qualifier that we are not 100% yet in the way we are playing.
“It is important we get to know each other off the pitch as well. We had two training camps that helped and a trip to Tanzania where we were away for a week and got to know each other better, but we are talking and working together every day on the training pitch. We can always have a coffee together too to get to know each other but it’s like every co-worker – sometimes you become good friends and socialise together and sometimes not.”
Koeman has not set his Everton players a target for the season other than to compete for European qualification and share the responsibility of replacing Lukaku’s goal threat following his move to Old Trafford. “It was not so great for us that Romelu might move but we wish him good luck,” says Schneiderlin. “Hopefully, that will free more players to score goals because last year we relied on him a lot for scoring goals.”
The Everton midfielder adds: “We want to do better than last season so that means breaking into the top six. That’s our ambition but there are hopefully going to be extra games with the Europa League so we will have to see how we cope. I think we have a squad that’s big enough to cope but we will have to see.
“We want to progress and get to know each other better. There has been a lot of movement this summer with players coming in. Yes we want to break into the top six but a lot of teams have strengthened this summer so it is going to be a very interesting season. I will be able to tell you more about the strength of the team after a couple of weeks and a few more games but the aim is to be better than last season.”
Schneiderlin was talking at an Everton in the Community football session. Everton in the Community uses the power of sport to inspire people across Merseyside and improve their life chances
“I never dreamed of this happening when I was at Hinckley,” says Andre Gray, as he struggles to come to terms with the idea that, less than six years after turning out for a team heading for a 20th-place finish in the Conference North, he has just completed an £18m transfer between top-flight clubs and is preparing to play Liverpool.
It very nearly did not. There were the years the new Watford forward spent involved in Wolverhampton’s gang culture, of which he carries a permanent memento on his left cheek, scarred by the slash of a knife. In his youth he lacked the application to go with his talent, leading to him being released by Wolves when he was 13 and by Shrewsbury five years later, not being considered good enough even for a place in their reserves.
Then during that 2011-12 season he came close to joining Tamworth, a transfer which might have set his life on a very different path. Instead he remained at Hinckley, excelled in an FA Trophy tie against Luton in January which went to a replay and moved to Kenilworth Road weeks later for the princely sum of £30,000.
“Some of that had to be paid to me because they hadn’t paid my wages,” he says. “They were in a bit of trouble over money, so the fee helped them out. Money can be a big thing in the lower leagues. When I was at Hinckley I was on £200 a week. I was flying around getting myself into trouble here and there. It was a learning curve, relying on money that wasn’t coming and having to survive. It made me learn a lot and it’s one place I’ve never wanted to go back to – and hopefully I don’t have to now.
“I was living at my mum’s, so at least I had a roof over my head. Me and my mates, we were all in the same boat. If anything I was in a slightly better position just because I had a wage. That’s how we grew up. We grew up just having to survive. It wasn’t so bad at the time, until you look back. That was just a young stage in my life but luckily the Luton situation came round at just the right time and I haven’t looked back.”
Gray was at Luton for a little over two years, in which time he made 97 starts, scored 52 goals and earned a move to the Championship with Brentford, where he spent a single season before heading to Burnley in 2015.
“When I was at Hinckley it was just a case of taking it one step at a time – try to get into the Conference, then League Two and so on,” he says. “To be totally honest, I thought it would take longer but I got a bit of luck and I got thrown into the deep end and I managed to come out of it in the end.”
In his first season at Turf Moor Gray scored 25 goals and was named the fans’, players’ and the overall Championship player of the season as Burnley streaked to the league title. Last season was very different, with the team taking a much more defensive outlook, and in the end outscoring only the three relegated sides. Gray managed nine goals in 32 appearances, including a hat-trick at home to Sunderland.
“The first half of the season was difficult,” he says. “From winning promotion, scoring nearly 100 goals throughout the team and 25 myself, a season where I’m coming off the pitch thinking: ‘How did I miss that?’, I’m coming off thinking: ‘I didn’t even have half a chance.’ It was difficult at first, and it was hard work up there sometimes. Quite quickly I realised it was about the team. That was the main thing. It was never going to be easy for us. We were doubted from the first day. Nobody gave us a prayer and we proved a lot of people wrong.”
He has moved to another team who many expect to struggle – Watford start the season as the fourth favourites to finish bottom – but hopes Marco Silva will exploit his pace and finishing ability better than Burnley did last season. “The manager here has new ideas and I admire what he did for Hull last year,” Gray says. “He has a different way of playing and I felt coming here was a new challenge, a coach with different ideas and somewhere to test myself.
“I think some moves come about because a director at a club wants it to happen, and there’s some moves where you’re doing an agent a favour or something along those lines. But me coming here is what the manager wanted. He wanted me. And speaking to him, it’s obvious he’s got a vision for me. So I’m not just coming here because of someone who’s working upstairs, it’s the manager’s say-so, and that’s a huge part of it.”
Last September Gray was suspended for four matches because of some homophobic tweets he wrote as a 21-year-old. Now 26, he speaks with the awareness of someone who has examined, and transformed, his life and his lifestyle and been handsomely rewarded for it. “At first I didn’t take football too seriously and then I realised what I wanted to do. I was seeing players get moves; a good friend went from Ilkeston to Luton and that made me see what was possible,” he says.
“I wasn’t putting my all into it and I was still managing to score goals, and that gave me something to dream about, and something to work hard for. So I ended up going to the gym on my days off, trying to be a step ahead of everyone. Then we played Luton and I did OK and they came in for me. And I haven’t looked back.”
Whatever happens when Mo Farah steps on to the track for the final time at a major championships on Saturday night, he will leave it knowing no British athlete has been so staggeringly successful – or had their achievements so forcibly questioned. As he put it to one interrogator last month, when asked again about the continuing United States Anti-Doping Agency investigation into his coach, Alberto Salazar: “It is getting boring now.”
Winning, however, is something Farah will never grow weary of. When he surged clear to take 10,000m gold last week it was his 11th consecutive world or Olympic title, going back to 2011. That is a remarkable record – especially when you consider his global dominance began only a few months shy of his 29th birthday.
Yet the steady supply of gold medals has never made him complacent. The bookmakers make him the overwhelming favourite for the 5,000m but he sees dangers lurking everywhere, and particularly from the Ethiopian trio of Yomif Kejelcha, Muktar Edris and Selemon Barega, and from Paul Chelimo, the American who ran him close during last year’s Olympic final. “I want to leave on a high but it is going to be tough,” he said. “There are a lot more guys in the 5,000m and a lot more decisions to be made in a shorter race.
“In the 10,000m you’ve got 25 laps so you can relax a little bit if you’re further back. In the 5,000m, if you’re not there at a certain point, or if someone’s going to do something and you’re not there, that’s it – it’s gone.”
Farah admitted this last big track race will be emotional but he is careful these days not to reveal too much of himself. The persistent drizzle of accusations about Salazar and his relationship with the controversial Somali coach Jama Aden, as well as the leak of some of his athlete biological passport data by the Russian hackers Fancy Bears, have made him more watchful and less carefree – at least in public.
Those who know him well insist he is still the same athlete who once upon a time jumped off bridges for a bet and occasionally got into mischief. Certainly Farah, who was born in Somalia and moved to Britain when he was eight, has not forgotten how fortunate his journey has been.
“I think I’m a very lucky person in life,” he said. “I have a gift not many people have – to be able to know who I was and where I came from as a youngster. I don’t think there’s enough words to explain the journey and everything. But you have to appreciate what you have and do the best that I can. That’s what I was taught in my early years. To appreciate it.”
He had a simple answer when asked what – apart from hard work and luck – had kept him on top. “To be honest, it is about staying hungry, staying humble, being nice, being normal, being who you are,” he said. “No one is going to change me.”
His four Olympic gold medals were dedicated to each of his children. This one, he wants for his whole family. “They are everything to me,” he said. “I love my four kids and I love my wife. They’ve been there through ups and downs throughout my career. If I’m going to close in London I wanted them to be a part of it to celebrate with me. That’s what we do – we do everything together.”
Farah will soon have more time to spend with them. He has only two more races left on the track after London, in Birmingham next Sunday and in Zurich four days later – where he hopes to set a personal best over 5,000m – and then he will leave it all behind to become a pure road racer. According to track and field’s rumour mill a one- or two-year deal with the London Marathon is also in the pipeline, although suggestions he will leave Salazar and form a new coaching team with the UK Athletics performance director, Neil Black, and the head of endurance, Barry Fudge, have been dismissed by all parties.
In the past Farah hinted at the prospect of running in the marathon at the Tokyo Olympics. Yet given his first attempt over 26.2 miles in 2014 was a modest 2:08.21 – over a minute outside Steve Jones’s British record – there are some wise heads who would not be shocked by a return to the track in time for the 10,000m at the 2019 world championships.
That assumes, of course, his body holds up – and that he can still crank out a sub-50sec 400m in training, which is his personal barometer that he is in gold medal shape. Given he will be 36 in 2019, you would assume it would be beyond him. But, as his opponents have learned, Farah has a way of defying expectations.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, to a new season reminiscent of the old at the Emirates, where the good news is Arsenal broke their transfer record for a striker but the bad news is they ended their first game of the season with a classically dysfunctional defence. It was an extraordinary combination – a midfield player at right-back, two left-backs at centre-back and a right-back at left-back. Confused? Who wouldn’t be. Leicester had all the clarity as they took advantage and a 3-2 lead into the final stages of an intoxicating tussle.
Oh Arsenal. Typical Arsenal. Absurd Arsenal. But where in seasons past this kind of situation tended to end with opening day navel-gazing, this time they found the resources to twist the tale with a theatrical flourish. Wenger threw on Aaron Ramsey and Olivier Giroud to attempt a rescue mission and both of them delivered with goals to transform the atmosphere from fretful and pressurised to the liberating joy of a thumping comeback. The match-winner from Giroud sent shudders through north London. In finding the composure to power a header while wrestling his marker he made his point that the purchase of Alexandre Lacazette would not easily make him expendable.
Arsenal’s penchant for starting seasons by getting a wobble in early has become something of an epidemic and they made a good stab at a repeat here. Arsène Wenger leaned on the game’s statistics to suggest this win was somehow logical – bags of possession and 27 shots for his team compared to three on target for the visitors – but few in the crowd would have argued had Leicester been able to hold on to the lead they seized with moments of ferocious determination.
A frenetic opening five minutes set the tone and presented a microcosm of all of Arsenal’s weird, paradoxical sense of possibility. Their ability to exude verve and be vulnerable in the same few flashes of a game was there for all to see. Day-one optimism cascaded down from the stands as the record signing Lacazette opened the scoring with his first meaningful Premier League touch. A mere two minutes into his official Arsenal career he was unmarked in the box to steer a powerful header past Kasper Schmeichel.
The Emirates crowd cherished the moment. But not for long. Leicester’s response was resolute and instant, exposing the old familiar defensive off-switch in Arsenal’s mechanics. Leicester loaded players into forward positions and when Marc Albrighton floated a cross over to the far post, the impressive Harry Maguire was more alert to the situation than any Arsenal defender. He sprinted to nod the ball back to Shinji Okazaki, whose movement was sparkier than any opponent and he finished instinctively.
Having equalised, it would have been rude of Leicester to turn down the opportunity to take the lead in the 28th minute. Mohamed Elneny and Granit Xhaka were punished for some casual passing in midfield as Albrighton pounced to carve the kind of opening that inspired Jamie Vardy to become synonymous with so many Leicester parties. The strike was smart and true.
The goal sucked the confidence out of Arsenal. Rob Holding was robbed of the ball. Leicester zoomed into another break and Okazaki was a fraction away from heading in a third. It spoke volumes of how Leicester interpreted the temperature of the game that both their centre-backs, Maguire and Wes Morgan, felt compelled to amble forward and frighten Arsenal’s rearguard from open play.
The makeshift defence that Wenger pieced together, without the senior influences of Laurent Koscielny, Per Mertesacker or Shkodran Mustafi, was jittery and easily stretched. A bizarre half ended with a reprieve for the home team. After Lacazette’s shot was blocked Leicester’s defenders raised choreographed “offside” arms while Sead Kolasinac ambled on to poke the ball for Danny Welbeck to prod in an equaliser. The half-time whistle was greeted by bubbling chitter-chatter about the reintroduction to the inexplicable emotional strain of Premier League chaos.
It did not ease off too much after the break. Emergency action from Petr Cech, twice, to deny the onrushing Vardy and then a clever shot from Riyad Mahrez, merely delayed the seemingly inevitable. Mahrez’s well-whipped corner was gobbled up by Vardy with a textbook glancing header. Set piece, simple stuff for Leicester. It was the umpteenth time one of their players had moved untracked on to an aerial ball. Wenger later tried a touch of positive spin by saying his team were good at corners last season and insisted they could work on this and iron out the kinks. Time will tell on that one.
The introduction of Giroud and Ramsey was influential, and a missed handball from Mesut Özil in the build-up to the equaliser was also helpful. Following a corner, Ramsey neatly controlled Xhaka’s dinked cross with one touch and buried his shot into the far corner with the next.
Arsenal went for the jugular. Lacazette danced through the pack and tested Schmeichel but it was Giroud who majestically delivered the coup de grace. Both Leicester’s dejection and Arsenal’s elation were understandable.
Morocco has announced it will bid to host the 2026 World Cup, positioning itself as a last-minute challenger to the joint bid from the United States, Mexico and Canada.
The Moroccan football federation unveiled the bid on Friday with a brief two-sentence statement, confirming it had submitted a formal application to the relevant Fifa committees. The announcement came hours before Fifa’s deadline for countries to confirm their intention to bid, and denies the North American bid an unopposed victory at the eleventh hour.
The US-Mexico-Canada bid, first reported by the Guardian and formally announced at an April news conference in New York City, remains the overwhelming favorite to win hosting rights for the 2026 tournament. A successful joint bid would mark the first time the World Cup has been hosted by multiple countries since the 2002 tournament in South Korea and Japan.
Under the proposal, the US will host 60 games – including every match from the quarter-finals onwards – with Mexico and Canada splitting the remaining 20 fixtures equally. The United States previously hosted the World Cup in 1994, and that 24-team, 52-match tournament still holds the attendance record (with nearly 3.6 million spectators), despite a subsequent expansion of the format to 32 teams and 64 matches.
Mexico hosted the tournament in 1970 and 1986, while Canada hosted the women’s World Cup in 2015.
In May, Fifa announced a four-stage bidding process for the 2026 tournament with a final decision in May 2020. It later confirmed that the previous two World Cup hosts, Europe and Asia, will not be eligible to host the tournament.
That left North America’s Concacaf (which last hosted in 1994), Africa’s CAF (which last hosted in 2010), South America’s Conmebol (Brazil in 2014) and Oceania’s OFC (never).
The CAF offered its backing to the Moroccan bid last month, and Morocco could spring an upset if it can broker an adequate voting alliance. Europe has 55 members in the Congress, Africa 54, Asia 46, Concacaf 35, Oceania 11 and South America 10.
Fifa will now inspect the two finalists’ bids and report to the governing body’s member associations by March. The final vote will take place at the Fifa congress in June.
“We’ve always been prepared for the fact that other countries could also decide to bid for the 2026 FIFA World Cup,” US Soccer president Sunil Gulati said in a statement on Friday. “Competition is good, and overall it shows the value and importance of the World Cup.
“Over the next eight months we’ve got a lot of work to do.”
The North American bid is bolstered by a fleet of gleaming new NFL stadiums built over the past two decades that are suitable for international matches, which puts it in step with the cost-conscious, infrastructure-ready leanings of the day.
But Morocco, which would become only the second African nation to host a World Cup after South Africa in 2010, has six soccer stadiums with 45,000 seats or more already in use, meaning it would not require as much new construction as previous host nations.
The North African country with long coastlines along the Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea previously bid for the World Cup in 1994, 1998, 2006 and 2010.
Two years ago, the Daily Telegraph reported that Morocco had, in fact, won the vote to host the 2010 competition – even though Fifa awarded the tournament to South Africa. Morocco also came close in its campaign for the 1998 tournament, losing to France in the final round by a margin of 12 to seven.
Michelle Payne was signed up to ride in the Shergar Cup within two days of the career-making moment in November 2015 when she won the Melbourne Cup on a 100-1 shot and told racing’s chauvinists to get stuffed. “I was hoping you’d ask,” was her response when approached by an Ascot official. “It’s a real honour.”
So it is sad to report that, with Payne mere hours from finally making her Cup appearance, relations between her and the Queen’s track have cooled. Jet-lagged and feeling sick, the 31-year-old jockey left early from a media event on Thursday, pausing only to offer some spiky language to an Ascot staffer who tried to detain her, according to one report.
Payne had spent hours talking to reporters but a handful of scribes were left without the interview they had been promised. One of the disappointed papers described her as storming out, prompting media interest around the globe.
“They wouldn’t let me leave,” Payne was quoted as saying in Australia’s Herald Sun. She had, she said, warned Ascot staff of feeling unwell after her 24-hour flight and had been promised the event would last two hours instead of four.
“I’m not a spoilt little brat,” Payne said. “Usually I’m pretty tough but they were asking too much.”
Payne took down from her timeline a couple of tweets promoting the Shergar Cup. Meanwhile, Ascot issued a clipped statement on Friday that Payne was “feeling a little under the weather” and that Hollie Doyle was on standby in case the Australian could not take part.
Payne saw a doctor on Friday and officials appeared hopeful thereafter that she will be able to line up on Saturday for the jockeys’ competition that draws around 30,000 to the track. Along with Hayley Turner and Canada’s Emma-Jayne Wilson, she would form a high-achieving Girls Team trying to repeat the victory of 2015 scored by Turner, Wilson and Sammy Jo Bell.
“I feel that it’s a great concept, a lot of fun and it’s obviously well supported,” Payne said at an early stage of Thursday’s event, appearing cheerful and relaxed in her first interview of the day. “I feel really proud to be representing female jockeys.”
That is a job she has been doing ever since her greatest moment of glory at Flemington and it is a responsibility she carries lightly, waving away a suggestion that it brings added pressure. “I just love doing what I’m doing.”
The significance of her Melbourne Cup win, she says, was that “it made it look possible. I think if you can see somebody do it, it definitely helps.”
She reports that the latest intake for a jockey school in Victoria is 60% female, having been less than half that when she started out. She points to Jamie Kah and Linda Meech as other examples of women making their mark in Australian racing, though she concedes that New Zealand is some way ahead when it comes to gender equality in the saddle.
Payne ducks a question on how well British racing is doing in giving chances to women. But she is aware of the French initiative encouraging owners to use female jockeys by taking weight off their horses and, with some misgivings, likes the idea.
“I think it’s great they’re trying. The opportunities are what we need and that will give us more opportunities.” She knows, too, that Turner will take advantage of the weight allowance by riding in France this winter.
“I would love to go, too, and make the most of the opportunity. If I didn’t have a stable at home, I’d probably give it a go. It’s too good an opportunity to miss. But I don’t think it’ll last too long with Hayley out there, I think she’ll do pretty well.”
Payne is mostly a trainer these days and says she expects to quit riding at the end of next year, if not before. The wrench of that decision is eased by the thrill she gets from her new job. On Sunday she’ll be up by 7am to watch online as her best horse, Duke Of Nottingham, runs at Bendigo, north of Melbourne.
“He’s ready to do well”, says his trainer. Let’s hope she feels the same way.
Ascot
1.05 Stake Acclaim (nb) 1.40 Swashbuckle 2.15 Mukhayyam 2.50 Early Morning 3.25 Glenys The Menace 4.00 Luailwa
Redcar
1.30 Silverlight 2.05 Bassmah 2.40 Questo 3.15 Our Charlie Brown 3.50 Ventura Secret 4.25 Polar Forest 5.00 Vindicator
Haydock
1.55 Dance King 2.30 Autocratic 3.00 Briyouni 3.35 Sea Of Grace 4.05 Fire Brigade 4.35 Gabrial The Tiger 5.05 Show Palace
Newmarket
2.00 Peace Trail 2.35 Gold Town 3.05 Anythingtoday 3.40 Dance Diva 4.15 Khamaary 4.50 Plutonian 5.20 Rolling Maul
Lingfield
5.10 Hats Off To Larry 5.40 Ocean Drive 6.10 Global Exceed 6.40 Global Wonder 7.10 Velvet Charm 7.40 Glenamoy Lad (nap) 8.10 Ptarmigan Ridge
Ayr
5.50 Haymarket 6.20 Dr Richard Kimble 6.50 Hamidans Girl 7.20 Fast Act 7.50 Maulesden May 8.20 Dark Crystal 8.50 Schmooze
Gawain Jones won his second British title last weekend when the 29-year-old Yorkshireman defeated Luke McShane, 33, the grandmaster who works full time as a financial trader, in a speed play-off final. The pair finished in a four-way tie on 7/9 in the main event at Llandudno.
McShane missed his chance when he beat the No1 seed, David Howell, in round six and went a point clear of Howell and Jones with only three rounds left but he then slowed up with draws. A new format, nine rounds instead of 11, triggered a more cautious approach by several top players, leading to a bunch finish.
The surprise fourth man on 7/9 was Craig Hanley, a former talented junior and master who has played little in recent years. The Swiss pairing system gave him an easier draw than the three elite GMs. Familiar names dominated as younger talents struggled to make a breakthrough. Andrew Horton, 19, who learnt his chess skills at Manchester GS and at the very successful 3Cs club in Oldham, scored a master norm while the 18-year-olds Conor Murphy and William Claridge-Hansen totalled 5.5/9 against strong fields.
England’s best players will now prepare for the World Cup, a 128-player knock-out, starting in Tbilisi, Georgia, on 2 September. Fide, the global chess body, has already published the first round pairings in which the England No1, Michael Adams, Jones and Howell all face lower-rated opponents. It gets hard very quickly, though, as the England trio all have elite GMs barring their way to the later rounds. In round two Jones would probably meet Russia’s Alex Grischuk while Howell would face Ukraine’s Pavel Eljanov. Adams may expect to get through two rounds but would then come up against India’s former world champion Vishy Anand, the brilliant winner of this week’s puzzle diagram.
Magnus Carlsen, the world champion, came within one game of losing his No1 ranking when he lost from a winning position in the Sinquefield Cup against France’s Maxime Vachier-Lagrave. That meant that Carlsen’s lead over Fabiano Caruana was down to less than 10 points but next day Carlsen beat the US champion, Wesley So, while Caruana went down to Anand and the danger passed. The final round of the Sinquefield Cup in St Louis starts at 7pm on Friday, and can be viewed live and free on the internet. Anand’s eye-catching victory over Caruana is featured below. It was sparked by Black opting for the active 6...Bc5 rather than the routine Be7, a plan which would have worked if Caruana had continued 18...Nd4 19 Rb2 Bd5 rather than the feeble b7-b5. Even after White sacrificed his bishop on g7 Caruana did not see what was coming. He could have gone for 25...Qe5 26 Rxe2 Qxc3 27 Re8 Qd4+ 28 Rf2 Qxb4 29 f8Q+ Qxf8 30 Rfxf8 when White will win prosaically and slowly.
Vishy Anand v Fabiano Caruana
1 c4 e5 2 Nc3 Nf6 3 Nf3 Nc6 4 g3 d5 5 cxd5 Nxd5 6 Bg2 Bc5?! 7 O-O O-O 8 d3 Bb6 9 Bd2 Bg4 10 Rc1 Nxc3 11 Bxc3 Re8 12 b4 Qd6 13 Nd2 Qh6 14 Nc4 Qh5 15 Rc2 Rad8 16 Nxb6 cxb6 17 f3 Be6 18 Qd2 b5?! 19 f4! Bg4?! 20 Bxc6 bxc6 21 fxe5 f6 22 exf6 Rxe2 23 f7+ Kf8 24 Bxg7+! Kxg7 25 Qc3+ Re5? (see puzzle diagram)
3507 26 Qd4!! (threatens 27 Qxd8) Qg5 (if Rxd4 27 f8Q+ Kg6 28 Qf6 mate, so Black guards d8) 27 Rc5! (double attack on the e5 rook) Rxd4 28 f8Q+ Kg6 29 Qf7+ 1-0
At the start of these championships one could have made good money by predicting Turkey would win more individual sprint golds than Jamaica but that is exactly what has transpired. Ramil Guliyev’s 200m title outstripped the island that has dominated international sprinting for the past decade, leading to questions about whether Jamaican athletics is in serious decline.
Usain Bolt’s looming retirement has long prompted fears about how athletics fills the enormous void he will leave but what about the effect in Jamaica where he is the most famous export since Bob Marley, where an entire nation stops to watch one man run? London 2017 has done little to alleviate concerns, with the country having won only three medals so far and standing no chance of getting close to the 12 they won in Beijing two years ago or the 11 in Rio last summer. The women’s 200m final will be contested without a Jamaican representative for the first time in the event’s 34-year history.
“Clearly there are some people at home who believe the sky is falling in,” said Andre Lowe, editor of the Jamaica Gleaner, “but I don’t think there’s any reason to panic.”
While the inquest into what has gone wrong for British Athletics here is already raging, postmortems from major events tend to be less aggressive in Jamaica. There is a popular saying on the island, “Time is longa dan rope,” meaning be patient, work hard and your time will come. That philosophy seems to be applied here.
Like many Lowe believes the country is simply going through a period of transition. “Over the last eight years or so since the Beijing Olympics in 2008, we have seen the same people dominating,” said Lowe, “Usain Bolt, Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce and to a lesser extent Veronica Campbell-Brown. Those people have been competing – certainly Usain and Veronica – at youth, junior and senior level for about 17 years, so at some point they were always going to step back. We have now arrived at that point. Shelly-Ann had her first baby a couple of days ago, so it’s very unlikely she’s going to come back to international track and field.”
Ask anyone in Jamaica who their next big sprinting talent is and they are likely to throw the name Christopher Taylor back at you. Taylor is still only 17 but won a world youth 400m title aged 15 and has dominated the junior ranks but did not qualify for London.
Even Bolt has spoken in the past of his struggle to make the transition from junior to senior level. He was only 15 when he won the 200m at the world junior championships in 2002 but it was another five years before he won his first major senior medal, a 200m silver at the Osaka world championships in 2007. “About 35% of this team is made up of athletes who are competing at major champs for the very first time,” said Lowe, “That’s unusual to be having such a high number but it helps that talent pool is there. Elaine Thompson was an unknown two years ago and now she’s a superstar, so these kids will be.”
A report in Jamaica last month stated Thompson was a “shoo-in” for the 100m title and it seemed that way as she breezed through the heats. Her fifth place in the final was a major shock as was Yohan Blake’s failure even to make it to the 200m final. Afterwards Blake admitted Jamaican sprinting might struggle after the “big man” Bolt departs.
Bolt, in the press conference following his bronze in the 100m, bristled at the suggestion that the slow times this year were the result of increased anti-doping measures.
His annoyance is understandable but it is a legitimate question and one that needs to be asked about Jamaica, too, given what we know about lax drug testing on the island before London 2012.
Britain’s Olympic champion sprinter Darren Campbell thinks making a link between a decline in Jamaican performances and improved anti-doping measures, including athlete biological passports, is premature.
“I think it’s a bit of a stretch to link the two,” he said. “A lot of sprinters have a Caribbean background, so for whatever reason the fast gene seems to pass over there.
“This track here isn’t the same as the London 2012 track, which was lightning. It’s also the year after the Olympics and, if you’ve been successful, you’re enjoying the success, so sometimes take your eye off the ball. That’s why you get shock results, as we’ve seen here.”
Jamaica will expect to hear the “Land We Love” national anthem blaring out at the London Stadium at least a few more times over the weekend with the relays to come.
“They’ve been punching above their weight for a good few years,” said Campbell, “so if they have underperformed here, it could probably be said the USA have been underperforming for the last decade. Whatever way you look at it, Jamaica are not going to disappear.”
You report (10 August) that the US has warned North Korea that it risks the destruction of its people. However, the US is risking the destruction of all people. Of eight Trident submarines stationed at Bangor, Washington state, at least two are probably on patrol in the western Pacific. Each is believed to carry 108 nuclear warheads, equivalent to more than 1,400 Hiroshima-sized detonations.
The US is supported by the UK, which has four Trident subs at Faslane in Scotland, and holds to Nato’s policy of first use on nuclear arms. Rather than sign the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons – agreed by 122 states at the UN – the US and UK pursue a “Do as I say, not as I do” policy. More balanced voices in the foreign policies of both governments are urgently needed.Rae StreetLittleborough, Lancashire
• The photo of the mass rally in Pyongyang (Trump says ‘fire and fury’ threat to Kim is not tough enough, 11 August) shows a crowd way bigger than at Trump’s inauguration. Is this what gets up his nose? No doubt Trump would also like to be able to command large crowds at his whim.Michael MillerSheffield
• Five years ago I was privileged, as part of a team of “Games Makers”, to chauffeur the North Korea Paralympic Team – which consisted of one competitor, Rim Ju-song, and a small supporting entourage. I was struck not only by their dedication, but also their sense of humour, good manners and informed curiosity about British culture. In short, they appeared model citizens of the world.
I make this point in the hope that, in this futile nuclear dance, we do not judge a people by its leaders – whether Kim Jong-un or Donald Trump – or think of them as fodder for the “fire and fury” brigade, simply because they are in the unfortunate position of being ruled by individuals of dubious character.Alan CorcoranGodalming, Surrey
• Is it time to fight Kim with Kim? If the Trump administration engaged Kim Kardashian as a US special envoy, her unique combination of wealth, glamour and business acumen could charm Kim Jong-un, and unpick the beliefs underpinning the pariah regime. The coup de grace? A Kanye West gig in Pyongyang.Michael ListerManchester
Brighton make their long-awaited Premier League debut knowing that, while a match against Manchester City may be considered a free hit, home form will be crucial to their survival. A previously slow summer of transfer activity stepped up this week with the arrivals of Davy Pröpper from Ajax and, imminently, the Club Brugge winger José Izquierdo but City have left most others in the dust when it comes to expenditure during this window and Pep Guardiola will want his own side to set down a marker early on. Nick Ames
Kick-off Saturday 5.30pm
Venue Amex Stadium
Last season n/a
Live BTS1
Referee Michael Oliver
Last season G33, Y111, R3, 3.55 cards per game
Odds H 10-1 A 1-3 D 4-1
Subs from Maenpaa, Skalak, Sidwell, Murray, Goldson, Ince, March, Suttner, Towell, Ahannach, Hünemeier, Knockaert
Doubtful Knockaert (knock), March (knee)
Injured Kayal (broken leg, Oct), Baldock (calf, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y75 R5
Top scorer (last season) Murray 23
Subs from Bravo, Mangala, Touré, Sané, Foden, Danilo, Delph, Roberts, Adarabioyo, B Silva, Zinchenko
Doubtful None
Injured Mendy (thigh, 26 Aug), Gündogan (knee, Sep), Nasri (neck, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y65 R4
Top scorer (last season) Agüero 20
Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott was suspended for six games Friday after a yearlong NFL investigation of his domestic violence case in Ohio.
The 2016 NFL rushing leader was suspended despite prosecutors in Columbus, Ohio, deciding a year ago not to pursue the case involving Elliott’s girlfriend at the time in the same city where he starred for Ohio State.
The league, however, said there was “substantial and persuasive evidence” that Elliott had physical confrontations last summer with his then-girlfriend, Tiffany Thompson. Elliott will be eligible to return to the active roster on 23 October. His first possible game will be Week 8 at Washington.
Elliott, who turned 22 last month, has three days to appeal the ruling. One of his agents didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. The NFL Players Association said it was reviewing the decision and had been in touch with Elliott’s representatives to consider his options.
The ruling requires Elliott to get an evaluation to determine whether he needs counseling or treatment, and to show proof that he is following up on any recommendations that are made.
The league revised its personal conduct policy in 2014 following sharp criticism of a case involving former Baltimore running back Ray Rice. The policy gave Commissioner Roger Goodell authority to suspend players for at least six games in domestic cases, with or without a conviction.
In a letter to Elliott informing him of the league’s decision, NFL special counsel for conduct Todd Jones said advisers brought in by the league “were of the view that there is substantial and persuasive evidence supporting a finding that (Elliott) engaged in physical violence against Ms. Thompson on multiple occasions during the week of July 16, 2016.”
Last September, the office of Columbus City Attorney Richard Pfeiffer cited conflicting and inconsistent information in the evidence in deciding against criminal charges.
The NFL’s letter to Elliott cited the Ohio case and an incident this past spring when Elliott was caught on video pulling down a woman’s shirt while watching a St Patrick’s Day parade in Dallas.
The decision came despite Cowboys owner Jerry Jones saying he hadn’t seen anything to indicate Elliott was guilty of domestic violence and that he didn’t think his star back would be suspended. Jones made the comments several times, including during festivities last weekend when he was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
Elliott has had a string of off-field issues in the year since the Cowboys made him the fourth overall pick in the 2016 draft. He was seen in a legal marijuana shop during the preseason in Seattle last year and was also involved in a bar fight in Dallas a week before training camp this year.
The All-Pro back finished with 1,631 yards rushing in helping the Cowboys to the best record in the NFC at 13-3 before a divisional playoff loss to Green Bay. He set rookie franchise records for yards, rushing touchdowns (15) and total touchdowns (16).
Mike Ashley has admitted he cannot compete with Manchester City and the Premier League’s other big spenders as the Newcastle owner attempts to fund Rafael Benítez’s rebuilding programme.
In a rare television interview, which will be broadcast by Sky Sports’ Premier League channel on Sunday evening, Ashley laid out the club’s spending limitations that have left Benítez frustrated.
Newcastle have invested about £30m on five new players in this transfer window but have been unable to land their major targets with fees soaring.
Ashley said: “If someone said to me I am wealthy – OK, in theory I am a billionaire, even maybe a multi-billionaire – but in reality my wealth is all in Sports Direct shares that, as I said the other week, are the same as wallpaper. I don’t have that cash in the bank, so I don’t have that ability to write a cheque for £200m. I don’t have it, it’s very simple, it’s not there. I would have to sell the Sports Direct shares to fund that.
“People outside of football looking in and the way sometimes it’s portrayed is that those sort of wealth terms are in the bank. They’re not and I have to make it clear, I am nowhere near wealthy enough in football now to compete with the likes of Man City etc – not just Man City – where basically it is a wealthy individual taking on what is the equivalent of countries. I cannot and I will not.”
Ashley’s comments came hours after Benítez had reaffirmed his commitment to Newcastle despite his disappointment over the summer spending.
Benítez said: “I said how I feel but at the same time I said my commitment is 100% with this team, this club in terms of trying to win from the first game until the last one.
“My ambition is to do well in every single game to get three points and see where we are in the table. I am not saying I am really pleased with everything because it’s not true but I am not saying that I will not do my best to be as high as possible in the table.”
Benítez will look to use the loan market, having accepted that he will not be allowed to go out and buy a £25m-plus player and pay the wages such a signing would command.
Ashley admitted he simply cannot afford to fund the kind of overhaul his manager would like in an ideal world. Asked how much money he could give the former Liverpool and Real Madrid manager, the sportswear magnate said: “Not enough. It’s very simple: it’s not enough, and Rafa knows that. It’s not enough. It’s not a secret. Every penny the club generates, he can have, but it won’t generate enough.
“It’s Newcastle United, it doesn’t have a £40m-a-year stadium naming rights deal, it doesn’t, so I don’t want the fans to watch this interview and think: ‘That’s great, Rafa is getting £150m in the morning’ - he’s not.
“Rafa, with [the managing director] Lee Charnley’s help – and Lee Charnley answers to Rafa, not the other way round so we’re crystal clear – Rafa makes all the final decisions on players out and players in, but he has to do it with the money the club has.”
One point and one place separated these teams last season but Bournemouth only stole into ninth position following West Bromwich Albion’s traditional slide into summer once safety had been assured. Tony Pulis’s side took only two points from their last nine games and have not won since mid-March. Do not bet against Pulis, the arch-pragmatist, rectifying that in this match against Eddie Howe’s improving but still unpredictable side. Paul Chronnell
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue The Hawthorns
Last season West Bromwich Albion 2 Bournemouth 1
Referee Robert Madley
Last season G30, Y125, R2, 4.30 cards per game
Odds H 6-4 A 2-1 D 9-4
Subs from Myhill, Palmer, Brunt, Robson-Kanu, McClean, McManaman, Field, Leko, Wilson
Doubtful Brunt (calf), Chadli (hip), Evans (hamstring)
Injured Morrison (knee, 19 Aug), McAuley (thigh, 26 Aug)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y80 R0
Top scorer (last season) Rondón 8
Subs from Boruc, Hyndman, Mahoney, S Cook, Afobe, Gradel, B Smith, L Cook, Defoe, Fraser, Mings, Mousset, M Wilson
Doubtful Hyndman (foot), S Cook (knock)
Injured Stanislas (groin, Sep), C Wilson (knee, Oct), Wiggins (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y52 R3
Top scorer (last season) King 16
Huddersfield Town will field several new signings in their first top-flight match for 45 years. David Wagner may start Tom Ince, Mathias Jorgensen, Jonas Lossl and Steve Mounié as he embarks on a quest to keep the relegation favourites in the Premier League. Frank de Boer’s first Crystal Palace lineup are set to have a youthful flavour, with Timothy Fosu-Mensah, Ruben Loftus-Cheek and Jairo Riedewald in contention. Rich Flower
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue Selhurst Park
Last season n/a
Referee Jonathan Moss
Last season G30, Y119, R3, 4.17 cards per game
Odds H 5-6 A 4-1 D 13-5
Subs from Hennessey, Ward, Tomkins, Cabaye, Lee, Schlupp, Williams, Mutch, Kaikai, Delaney, Kelly, Ladapo
Doubtful Cabaye (ankle)
Injured McArthur (knock, 19 Aug), Sako (calf, unknown), Souaré (broken leg, unknown), Wickham (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y77 R0
Top scorer (last season) Benteke 15
Subs from Coleman, Schofield, Lolley, Malone, Whitehead, Scannell, Williams, Depoitre, Quaner, Hefele, Palmer
Doubtful None
Injured Hogg (ankle, 26 Aug), Cranie (hip, Sep), Wells (ankle, Sep), Stankovic (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y91 R4
Top scorer (last season) Kachunga 12
Philippe Coutinho may be the main conversation topic but he will not be on the pitch – the Brazilian is out with a back problem. Liverpool are also without Adam Lallana and Daniel Sturridgedue to injury. They travel to Vicarage Road uncertain of what kind of opponents they will face in Watford, now managed by Marco Silva and with seven new signings jostling for places. One of those, record transfer Andre Gray, looks certain to start up front in the absence of the injured Troy Deeney while Nathaniel Chalobah is likely to anchor midfield after permanently returning to the club where he played on loan five seasons ago. Paul MacInnes
Kick-off Saturday 12.30pm
Venue Vicarage Road
Last season Watford 0 Liverpool 1
Referee Anthony Taylor
Last season G30, Y120, R4, 4.27 cards per game
Odds H 5-1 A 4-7 D 3-1
Subs from Arlauskis, Pantilimon, Prödl, Mariappa, Deeney, Success, Richarlison, Cathcart, Sinclair, Hughes, Zárate, Femenía, Watson, Dje Djédjé, Capoue, Hoban, Okaka, Behrami
Doubtful Deeney (groin)
Injured Kabasele
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y84 R5
Top scorer (last season) Deeney 10
Subs from Karius, Sakho, Gomez, Ojo, Grujic, Klavan, Moreno, Brannagan, Origi, Solanke, Robertson, Flanagan, Markovic, Woodburn
Doubtful None
Injured Clyne (hamstring, 19 Aug), Coutinho (back, 19 Aug), Sturridge (thigh, 19 Aug), Ings (knee, 26 Aug), Lallana (thigh, Nov), Bogdan (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y54 R0
Top scorer (last season) Coutinho 13
“A limousine whisked me off for an appearance on Match of the Day. Then I went to the Sportsman Club for dinner with a sheikh who wanted to name a racehorse after me ... I set off for the NEC in Birmingham for a personal appearance at a toy fair; then it was straight back to London for talks with a film producer ...”
Just how big was Kevin Keegan when Kevin Keegan was big? The answer to this question is simple: Keegan was very big. Toy fairs big. Sheikhs big. So big that even daring to ask that question here speaks to a familiar kind of footballing amnesia, a tendency to see only the bright lights of the present. So much so that, you know what, I’ve kept quiet about this. But when you say that about a man like. When you hear the. When you. Well, you went down in. Down in my. Down.
Apologies for that. But football does often seem to be an emotional subject when Keegan is involved, a man whose entire mature career from the tail-end of the soulfully doomed Admiral-kit England days, to that wild, glorious interlude at Newcastle, has seemed to be an extended exercise in trying not to burst into tears. In the middle of which it is easy to overlook just how dizzyingly successful and indeed generously wholehearted the footballing life of Kev has been. The reason for mentioning him here is that this week has marked another significant Keegan anniversary, one that seems pertinent now in the dog days of English football’s great summer of money.
It is 40 years since Keegan’s Bundesliga debut for Hamburg, a record move that marked the start of the real white heat of the Keegan Supremacy. The above quote is taken from his book Against the World and describes a typical post-match 24 hours as the best-paid, most recognisable footballer in Europe filled the skies.
Not that it was all plain sailing. Keegan’s Hamburg debut had come in difficult circumstances. A controversial agreement with Liverpool, whereby Keegan got to leave for a set fee if he played one last season, had failed to spawn the expected auction for his services. As the summer of 1977 approached Hamburg finally got in touch, a man called Pasteur, who spoke no English, turning up in Cheshire to offer Keegan so much money he thought it was a joke at first.
“Jean had an A-level in German and a pen-friend there,” Keegan noted, hopefully, in his autobiography. And so off to Hamburg, where the Keegans were installed in a city-centre hotel room with their Old English Sheepdogs, who proceeded to spend the early days energetically fouling the carpets (“it was no kind of life for Jean”) until finally a suitable rustic mansion was located.
The other Hamburg players hated Keegan at first, irritated by the hype, riled by his galaxy-scale wages. They pretended not to speak English. Some refused to pass to him. Steadily, though, Keegan dug in. He learnt to speak German. He began to score and make goals, winning the crowds over with his relentless, leg-pumping, satin-shorted running game. He was sent off for knocking out a pint-sized hatchet man called Erhard Preuss with a single punch during a mid-season friendly (“for a split second I was afraid I might have killed him – it was the hardest I had hit anyone in my life”).
Hamburg finished 10th in the Bundesliga that first year. A heavy drinking Yugoslav coach called Branko Zebec came in and ran the players until they vomited and collapsed. The next season they duly won the league. Real Madrid and Juventus came in for Keegan. Back-to-back European Footballer of the Year gongs were followed by a European Cup final defeat to Nottingham Forest. And 40 years on Mächtig Maus, Special K, Super Kev and (from his early years at Liverpool) Andy McDaft is still the most successful English footballer to have signed for a European club.
There are some odd things about this. Firstly, why isn’t Keegan mentioned more when the conversation turns – as it so often does – to top, top top English footballers? Instead that double European player award is routinely downgraded and explained away, particularly the slightly puzzling first one when he scored 12 goals and Hamburg won no trophies, arguably a correction for missing out the year before when Liverpool won the European Cup.
Understandably perhaps. Keegan was a worker, a clever, relentless but largely prosaic footballer. He played for England in the tournament-free years. His replacement at Liverpool, Kenny Dalglish, was a more irresistibly compelling talent. The cold, hard, ruthless light of Keegan’s over-achievement gets a little lost in all this. Looking back he even labelled himself “the mutt who got to go to Crufts”. The real oddity, though, is why Keegan didn’t light the way more successfully for others to leave England, a great welcoming signpost on the sinister wooded path to Abroad. Some did follow. There was a small diaspora of other top English players in Spain and France in the 1980s. But David Beckham to Real Madrid is the only comparable move in the last 20 years, at a time when even ambitious, slightly blocked English talents like Jack Wilshere or Ross Barkley would rather take the money and fret for a place at home than consider a rejuvenating move to Spain or Italy.
And yet to puzzle over why Keegan did not blaze a trail in this way is to misunderstand him fundamentally. Super Kev did mark a very distinct path from there to here but this was instead about economic freedom. What Keegan was fleeing in 1977 was not so much the parochialisms of English football as the 90% income tax squeeze, controlling employers, a fixed-income landscape.
Jimmy Hill and the salary-cap mutineers are usually fingered as the godfathers of inflationary footballing finances. But Keegan played a major part, too. At Hamburg he struck the first “face deal”, trading on his celebrity, opening endless shops, promoting BP during a Europe-wide energy crisis. He even launched The Kevin Keegan Collection, a KK-branded knitwear line, including what looks like a kind of sports-business pinstripe suit, modelled by a beaming KK himself complete with umbrella, bubble perm and stack-heeled boots.
How big was Keegan when he was big? Super-big, of course. But he was a time traveller too, a pre-Thatcherite force for deregulation and open markets. Looking around at our own wild inflationary summer, it is hard to avoid the feeling Keegan helped pollinate all this, a one-man bubble-haired Premier League spermatozoa burrowing through the layers, helping to spawn what we see now: disenfranchised multi-millionaire left-backs, power-brokering A-list inside forwards, all of them in some small sense the children of Kev.
Sky could be forced to pay an extra £600m annually to retain the lion’s share of Premier League matches when the next rights auction launches this year, with Amazon emerging as a potential competitor for the biggest prize in UK sport broadcasting.
Google, Apple, Facebook and Netflix are other possible rivals for Britain’s most valuable sports rights, which are split between Sky and BT under the current three-year deal. The prospect of a heated auction involving deep-pocketed tech firms has led analysts to estimate that Sky might have to pay a premium of up to 45% on the near £4.2bn it paid last time. That means a further £1.8bn, or £600m annually, to keep Silicon Valley off the ball.
“We expect Sky to pay 40% to 45% more in the next Premier League rights auction,” said Thomas Singlehurst, an analyst at investment bank Citi, who has rounded up his peers’ forecasts. “The base case consensus [of Sky analysts] is that payments go up by £600m a year from the 2019-20 season.”
This year there has been significant inflation in the sports rights market: the UK rights to the Champions League rose by 32%, the England and Wales Cricket board nearly trebled its deal for the England cricket team, and the Football League is set to increase its next deal by more than 30%.
This month it emerged that Amazon has entered British sports broadcasting by outbidding Sky for the UK rights to ATP World Tour tennis, to go alongside its small deal with the NFL in the US. Amazon’s surprise move comes at a perfect time for the Premier League, which has been happily flagging the potential interest of tech groups and streaming powerhouses in a bid to ensure it tops the last auction, when Sky and BT bid £5.14bn for 168 matches per season over three years.
“It would be daft if we didn’t think about how different auctions play out,” said Andy Haworth, the managing director of content and strategy at BT. “The content market is always evolving with new players entering all the time.”
The value of Premier League rights has rocketed fivefold from what seemed a heady £1bn in 2004. It means that generating a profit from broadcasting top-flight football is no easy business even for global digital giants.
The £10m cost of a year of Amazon’s ATP tennis deal would buy it about 81 minutes of one match of the £11m per game Sky pays under its current deal.
The next auction will kick off before the year end with a tender that will outline how many matches are available, over what time period and in how many packages. Last time, Sky won five of the seven packages. The auction is expected to conclude early next year.
Citi’s Singlehurst said: “It is unlikely that a major digital player will bid for the main Premier League packages as they are incredibly expensive and UK only. As a standalone offer they would be a loss leader for Sky or BT, but they are able to cross-subsidise to make it work with broadband, TV, landline and mobile. None of these new competitors can cross-subsidise to the same level to make it work, even Amazon. And they tend to prefer global content deals to make it work across a much bigger base.”
Mike Darcey, a former top executive at Sky, believes the value of Premier League rights is close to the top of the market . He predicts inflation more in the range of 15% this time unless a new bidder emerges, which he also thinks unlikely.
“I’m not sure it is unsustainable [yet] but my instinct is that we are getting close to the point at which business plans are going to become pretty stretched,” he said. “I tend to think at the 2015 auction Sky was getting towards the point that beyond here you have to ask some pretty tough questions of whether you have to step away.”
So far, Sky has been able to absorb the spiralling costs of its most important piece of content. However, annual profits for its UK and Ireland operation fell 14% in the year to the end of June, primarily due to a huge one-off increase in Premier League costs.
The Sky chief executive, Jeremy Darroch, said this year he was getting tougher on price and has “walked away” from deals.
Darcey says Sky has plenty of options including looking at whether it still wants to hold five match packages – the most it was allowed to hold in the previous auction. .
“There are various levels you can retreat to if it gets stretched,” said Darcey. “Sky has got used to the idea they don’t need everything.”
In recent years Sky has poured billions of pounds into building a wider offering, such as deals with Game of Thrones maker HBO and making increasing numbers of original shows such as Riviera, which has reduced the proportion of sport subscribers from 80% to less than 50% of its 12 million-strong customer base.
Darcey says the biggest potential driver of inflation is BT. In the past two auctions a bidding war between BT and Sky has driven the costs up 70% each time, and at the last auction this forced Sky to pay 83% more to secure the prime games.
“BT is paying Sky-level prices for two packs that Sky can’t have anyway,” he says. “They have retained the Champions League, which was important to them, and they could save more than £100m a year if they play cleverly at the next Premier League auction. If they believe it is just them and Sky the amount they pay could go down if they just focus on two packs. It is wildly expensive to try and become the number one and is probably completely unnecessary for them.”
Earlier this year, the BT chief executive, Gavin Patterson, appeared to signal that he may not look to lodge a knock-out bid, saying he does not need to be “number one in the sports market, but we do need to be a viable number two”.
“We are clear whenever we approach any auction what we think it is worth and what what we can afford,” said BT’s Haworth. “We have not got carried away and we will continue to buy rights that we think will provide a good solid return for shareholders and that are good for customers.”
The dilemma for Sky is whether Amazon will be so cautious.

Victor Moses’s red card in the FA Cup final means he is suspended for Chelsea’s first league game of the season. César Azpilicueta will switch to the right with the new signing Antonio Rüdiger coming in to the back three. Álvaro Morata, another new recruit, will lead the line now Diego Costa is out of favour. Burnley will miss Michael Keane in defence while Jon Walters will have a tough task replacing Andre Gray up front. Rich Flower
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue Stamford Bridge
Last season Chelsea 3 Burnley 0
Referee Craig Pawson
Last season G24, Y95, R4, 4.29 cards per game
Odds H 1-4 A 16-1 D 6-1
Subs from Caballero, Eduardo, Boga, Musonda, Christensen, Baker, Scott, Tomori, Wallace, Rémy, Clarke-Salter, Omeruo, Nathan
Doubtful None
Injured Bakayoko (knee, 19 Aug), Pedro (ankle, 26 Aug), Hazard (ankle, Sep), Costa (unsettled, unknown)
Suspended Moses (one match)
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y72 R0
Top scorer (last season) Costa 20
Subs from Legzdins, Pope, Westwood, Taylor, Vokes, Barnes, Ulvestad, Agyei, Bardsley, K Long, Anderson, Arfield
Doubtful None
Injured Marney (knee, Oct)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y65 R2
Top scorer (last season) Vokes 10
Dot Purvis remembers the last time Brighton and Hove Albion played in the top flight of football, 34 years ago. To celebrate, the football-mad octogenarian had her whole house painted in the club’s signature blue. But while her collection of seagulls and club paraphernalia in the front garden grew in the intervening years, the paint became faded.
Now it stands resplendent on Ryde Road once again, the sun’s rays reflecting off the stained-glass club badge proudly in the centre of her front door, a blue and white flag floating from an upstairs window. “I thought, I’ve supported them my whole life, and if I got out all my scarves and flags it might help them being up there,” she says mischievously.
The 83-year-old, who has followed the club home and away for more than 50 years, can barely contain her excitement for Albion’s first game in the Premier League on Saturday – against big hitters Manchester City, no less. “It’s very exciting, I always thought they’d do it. They deserved to be there, and now they are,” she says, quite unable to take the smile off her face.
Purvis’s infectious enthusiasm can be found all over the south coast resort. Flags fly in windows, seagulls – the club’s emblem and nickname – are painted across buildings, and in pubs men look nervously into pints muttering: “Only 37 points and we’re probably safe.”
“Everybody is just buzzing, you can feel the goodwill in the city and all around the country. We are so proud of what we have achieved,” says punk poet and long-time supporter Attila the Stockbroker. “People think we’re going to get stuffed every week, we’re going to go straight back down – to say there is no pressure on us is an understatement.”
The battle to get here has been far from easy. Twenty years ago Brighton were facing the prospect of dropping out of the Football League altogether, and were saved only after eking out a draw on the final day of the season against Hereford. In 1997 fans had seen their beloved club mismanaged into the dirt, their home – the Goldstone Ground – sold. For 14 years they were without a stadium of their own, forced to take a humiliating 70-mile round trip to play their home games at Gillingham for two years, before playing at Withdean stadium – a former zoo that became an athletics track.
But from the edge of oblivion came the hope of rebirth. A new chairman and lifelong fan, Dick Knight, took over and steadied the ship. In 2009 he was followed by Brighton-born Tony Bloom, a poker-playing entrepreneur who made his millions in the gambling business and property. A fan-led campaign saw Albion supporters win the green light to build a new stadium. And Bloom invested more than £250m of his money into the club, building a ground and training facilities that finally opened in 2011.
“Frankly, compared to being on the edge of going out of the Football League with no ground, Man City at home is a piece of piss,” says Attila the Stockbroker, who played a key role in the supporters’ fight and whose poem Goldstone Ghosts is printed on the wall of the supporters’ bar.
As the team walk out against City on Saturday, many will look to the poignant words which read: “And one day, when our new home’s built, and we are storming back/A bunch of happy fans without a care/We’ll look back on our darkest hour and raise our glasses high and say with satisfaction: we were there.”
At the end of Albion’s glorious last season – in which they achieved promotion with three games to spare – Bloom, a supporter from the age of seven, told the players, fans and club to have no fear. “We know that we have the inner strength to at least hold our own,” he said.
It is that spirit that long-time fans are desperate to keep hold of as the club moves into a league which regularly sees distinctly average players sold for multimillion-pound price tags and take home hundreds of thousands of pounds a week.
“At the end of last season the sense of pride was massive. This was a club that was almost extinct, that had to fight tooth and nail to be here,” says Alan Wares, co-host of the Albion Roar radio show and podcast. “That pride is still there, but as we get closer I just hope that the soul and the culture of the club is retained. I don’t want it to become somewhere that pulls away from the fans and chasing the dollars.”
The thought of facing a Man City side whose two fullbacks cost more than Albion’s stadium is also intimidating, he admits. “There’s a lot of nervous anticipation, I’d say,” says Wares. “This shit’s just got real.”
Long-time fan Purvis, who will be watching the game at home, is not about to let the nerves spoil her enjoyment. “It will be a good game I think – a draw would be brilliant,” she says.
Purvis has watched her team at four different grounds – the much-loved Goldstone (“such a good atmosphere”), Gillingham (“a nice ground, but we paid for it”) and Withdean (“fit for ducks”), before going to the Amex (“a lovely stadium”).
On Saturday, the former hospital cafeteria worker won’t be in the stadium – since the neighbour she used to go with died it is been harder to get there and the cold gets into her bones – but she will be watching thanks to her one guilty pleasure: a Sky Sports subscription.
Still, she hopes to get to a game before the season is out, hopefully to see them win – and as she gets older she gets ever more confident. “People said we would go straight back down last time, and we didn’t,” she says. “I think we could do a Leicester and win it – well, why not? Those other clubs aren’t all that clever just because they have got this money. We’ve got a good set of players and a good team spirit. All for the Albion!”
Like the Hotel California in the Eagles song of the same name, Liverpool Football Club can be a difficult place to leave. In recent years, several big-name stars have checked out but not all of them got to depart quite as soon as they’d like. In 2004, $tevie Mbe handed in a transfer request only to remain at the club for another 11 years. And in 2013, Luis Suárez tried to hand in his room-key and was convinced to stay for another year.
More recently – just on Friday afternoon in fact – Philippe Coutinho responded to a Fenway Sports Group statement that “the club’s definitive stance is that no offers for Philippe will be considered and he will remain a member of Liverpool Football Club when the summer window closes” by emailing a transfer request to the club. The Brazilian wants to move to Barcelona and is frustrated that Liverpool have turned down two bids from them. Exactly how definitive the “definitive stance” being taken by Liverpool’s owners turns out to be remains to be seen – but it’s likely to run and run, so fans are advised not to pitch up on Sky Sports News burning their expensive No10 replica shirts just yet.
Meanwhile in offices all over London, Arsenal fans are wasting valuable office time and resources printing off their sheets of angry A4 in preparation for their Premier League opener against Leicester at the Emirates. Also suffering the stress that comes with worrying about talented South Americans who would rather be somewhere else playing for: a) potential title-winners; and b) more money, they will at least be able to put their worries behind them until the first reams of “Wenger out” are held up in protest after Kelechi Iheanacho’s 16th-minute opener.
Considering Arsène Wenger’s side have won just one of their past seven opening league fixtures, expectations should not be particularly high against Craig Shakespeare’s side. But these are Arsenal fans we’re talking about, so they will be ridiculously high. Anything less than victory will prompt more tedious bickering and calls for the Frenchman to pack his bags, check out and head for the door marked “Do one!”
Join Barry Glendenning from 7.45pm BST for hot MBM coverage of Arsenal 2-1 Leicester City.
“I acknowledge the timing and manner of what I said was ill-judged. My words were not meant to offend and for that I would like to apologise … I’d also like to wish the lads good luck ahead of Sunday’s game against Newcastle” –

Base Soccer Agency
 Danny Rose pours some cold PR on Thursday’s hot take about Spurs only signing players who “you have to Google”. Mauricio Pochettino’s response? “I forgive that. For me, let’s move on.”
Join Max Rushden and co for Football Weekly Extraaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“Can you help me? As a Saints fan, am I experiencing schadenfreude or ironic elation?” – Pete Thompson.
“Further to yesterday’s Fiver, and unfashionable though it may be to mention Nasty Leeds in a Premier League context, but actually Spurs did not ‘develop Danny Rose’. The famous Nasty Leeds academy of the early noughties did so that Spurs could acquire him in a fire sale” – Vincent Denham.
“Apropos Mark Birbeck’s flamin’ gripe that he can’t watch Nasty Leeds matches live anymore (Fiver letters passim) he should be comforted by one thing. As a Sydney-based flamin’ Nasty Leeds fan (who grew up in Yorkshire, I might add) I also subscribe to NLUTV and generally catch up on the overnight extended highlights of matches first thing at work when I log on. Due to the almost complete apathy towards proper football in this neck of the woods, I can safely turn on the radio/TV in the morning and walk to work with my eyes and ears open without fear of hearing the result in advance. At least there’s no chance of a ‘Likely Lads’ moment in this neck of the woods” – Allastair McGillivray.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Pete Thompson.
A Hong Kong pro-democracy activist says he was beaten and had his legs stapled by Chinese agents because he was planning to send a signed photo of Lionel Messi to Liu Xia, the widow of Nobel peace prize laureate Liu Xiaobo.
Entertainment’s Tony Pulis has signed a new contract to stay at West Brom until 2019. “I’m delighted,” he roared, “because it continues the stability which is essential for progress.”
Antonio Conte says he’s absolutely fine about Chelsea’s transfer activity and definitely won’t use the media to pressure the club. “I don’t like to send a message through the press,” he told the press. “But the club knows very well my opinion. They try to do their best.”
Fifa bid inspectors are eyeing Morocco’s top boutique hotels after the country lodged a bid to host the 2026 World Cup – rivalling a joint effort from Mexico, Canada and the USA! USA!! USA!!!
EFL suits say Thursday night’s Milk Cup draw bungle wasn’t as bad a bungle as it seemed. “There was some confusion as to the home or away status,” they tooted. “The draw was in no way compromised.”
Roma have told Leicester to forget about trousering over the odds for Riyad Mahrez. “We made our fair offer, the biggest in the club’s history and we won’t bid again,” honked director of football Monchi. “Now we wait.”
Frank de Boer insists dubious Palace players are “starting to believe” his message about passing. “Every ball you play, you play with an idea. I never played a ball without an idea,” he for-sured. “Do I play it hard because it is between the lines? Do I play it on his right foot because then I know he has to turn that way? Every pass has a message. That is the person I was as a player, and that is what I demand from my players.”
Stoke have signed Bruno Martins Indi on a permanent deal.
And good news for Norwich fans: former hero Ricky van Wolfswinkel hasn’t lost his touch.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seems to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
Do Arsenal face a must-win game already? It’s one of 10 things to ponder ahead of the Premier League’s opening weekend.
Leicester have splashed the cash this summer but expectations of the former champions are suitably low, writes Stuart James.
The summer of the ludicrously expensive full-back reveals plenty. Not only about the Premier League’s seemingly interminable slosh of money but also the success of Antonio Conte’s title-winning tactics, observes floating brain in a jar Jonathan Wilson.
Brighton full-back Liam Rosenior is our new resident columnist and on his Big Website debut he explains why playing Premier League football can often be an easier gig than the Championship.
How to stay in the Premier League? Don’t sign Rudy Gestede, advises Simon Burnton in his survival guide.
All 20 team guides from our season supplement can be found here. Plus the last of our club-by-club previews:

Gossips, Sailors
 West Brom and West Ham.
All Barney Ronay asks of the new-season gods is Big Cup success to cheer, an underdog story to get behind and a title race thriller to keep us entertained.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
The image of an Olympian is associated with physical prowess, a sculpted body chipped into perfection by years of careful maintenance and preparation. We expect these people to perform great feats of physicality better than the rest of us. That is why so many are scornful of the notion that competitive video gaming, or eSports as it’s come to be known, should stand alongside other Olympic sports. But this requires rethinking.
eSports are being talked up as a potential medal event in the Paris summer games of 2024, but there are plenty of barriers in the way, with International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach saying that eSports are contrary to “Olympic rules and values of sport” (for now).
The nascent field currently enjoys enormous attention and funding, even without IOC recognition. Last year, CNN noted that the global audience for eSports grew to 292 million, with some projecting this to almost double by 2019. Global revenue for the eSports industry is currently estimated at $463m (£357m) and rising. In many countries, audiences pack stadiums and concert venues to watch teams compete against each other in a range of video game tournaments. People from around the world also watch from the comfort of their homes thanks to streaming: Yahoo has an entire YouTube channel dedicated to the sport. In 2014 Amazon paid $970m (£585m) to acquire Twitch, a site that streams live footage of people playing video games.
The IOC has awarded medals for town planning, drawing, poetry and more. They still award them for dressage
Some maintain that the Olympics should keep its focus on traditional notions of physicality. But a casual glance through history shows the IOC awarded medals for town planning, drawing, poetry and much more. They still award them for dressage. As Mary Beard notes, the Olympic Games has a long, strange history, with its standards rarely set in stone.
How do we even compare various current Olympic sports using a broad understanding of physical excellence, when we have the 400m dash and prone rifle shooting in the same Games? What is demanded by one is not demanded by another, so there is no objective measure. Regardless, some point to studies arguing that eSports athletes are athletes in the traditional sense of the term too.
Of course, sports remain sports whether or not the IOC recognises them. Cricket, after all, is not included in the Olympics and neither is squash. They still draw in crowds and the best players, especially in cricket, are household names. (Can you name a famous dressage rider? Or horse? I didn’t think so.)
And yet, that elusive recognition remains important. As Irwin Kishner, an expert on sports law at Herrick, told Forbes: “Many sports want to get Olympic recognition because it is a way for public demonstration to the world, and a surge of interest often follows.”
While eSports is growing, that still doesn’t necessarily make it widely accepted. Cricket has a long history and tradition that doesn’t need Olympic recognition. eSports is young, its players are young and its audience is young. The dismissal of eSports aligns with the constant dismissal of what occupies young people as “fads” or unimportant activities older people scoff at.
eSports is an opportunity for young people to take an existing passion, competitive gaming, and make something more of it, even earning a living from it – after all, this is often given as a reason to celebrate and support sports in general.
Finally, as Quartz notes: “The guidelines for [IOC eligibility for] 2020 ... focus primarily on appealing to young audiences and maximising the Games’ general popularity.” So Thomas Bach’s dismissal doesn’t even align with the IOC’s purported interests. Furthermore, eSports will be a recognised as an official sport at the Asian Games in China in 2022.
While eSports grows on the world stage, arguments against including it as an official sport, worthy of an Olympic medal, seem wanting.
• Tauriq Moosa is an ethics, technology and pop culture blogger
There could be 10 new signings on display across both teams on the opening day of the season at Goodison Park yet Ronald Koeman and Mark Hughes would prefer more as their respective pursuits of Gylfi Sigurdsson and Bruno Martins Indi drag on. The rebuilding of Everton and Stoke may be incomplete but both managers have the immediate task of getting a new-look team to gel. Next up for Koeman are Manchester City, Chelsea, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United so a good start is imperative. Andy Hunter
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue Goodison Park
Last season Everton 1 Stoke City 0
Referee Neil Swarbrick
Last season G24, Y90, R1, 3.83 cards per game
Odds H 4-6 A 9-2 D 11-4
Subs from Robles, Stekelenburg, Besic, Jagielka, Mirallas, Lennon, Niasse, Barry, Calvert-Lewin, Holgate, Lookman
Doubtful Lennon (hamstring)
Injured Barkley (groin, 19 Aug), McCarthy (hamstring, 19 Aug), Bolasie (knee, Dec), Coleman (broken leg, Dec), Funes Mori (knee, Mar)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y72 R2
Top scorer (last season) Lukaku 25
Subs from Grant, Haugaard, Muniesa, Joselu, Adam, Diouf, Cameron, Imbula, Crouch, Wollscheid, Tymon, Sobhi, Ngoy, Verlinden
Doubtful Krkic (calf), Tymon (foot)
Injured Ireland (broken leg, Sep), Afellay (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y70 R2
Top scorer (last season) Crouch 7
The England head coach, Simon Middleton, has said his side are keeping something up their sleeve for the knockout stage of the Women’s World Cup as they prepare for their second match of the tournament against Italy on Sunday.
England brought the curtain up on the competition with a dominant 56-5 victory over Spain on Wednesday with Kay Wilson contributing four of their 10 tries. The first of those was scored by the 20-year-old outside-centre Megan Jones, winning her fifth cap ahead of Emily Scarratt, who was left on the bench. Wilson’s second was the pick of the tries – gathering Katy Mclean’s pinpoint crossfield kick and dotting down – but, while there were a number of eye-catching scores, the scrum was not quite as dominant as Middleton would have liked and the driving lineout yielded only one try.
It was scored by the replacement hooker Amy Cokayne with Heather Kerr starting in the No2 jersey as Middleton gave 12 members of his 28-strong squad their first taste of World Cup action. He also intends to make a number of changes against Italy, introducing the five players who missed out on Wednesday, including the 105-cap lock Tamara Taylor. Italy were beaten 24-12 by the USA in their opener and England are again expected to run out comfortable winners at University College Dublin.
Indeed, while New Zealand and Canada are in the same pool, and the hosts Ireland, Australia and France are in another, England have a straightforward route to the last four, even if Middleton highlighted England’s 29-15 victory over Italy during the Six Nations – in which their opponents scored the opening try inside five minutes – as a means of guarding against complacency.
“You don’t want to show all your hand if you don’t have to,” he said. “There’s also the adage that they may know what you’ve got but they’ve also got to be able to stop it. But it’s no secret, I intend playing every player in the first two games, there will be those who didn’t play against Spain will play but we’re really confident with the combinations and the squad depth we’ve got. We’ve worked for the last few years putting it in place and now it’s about using it.
“It’s about getting everyone on the pitch and giving them a run but that certainly won’t be compromising our approach to this game. Italy will be a massive threat, they’ve got some very talented players and we won’t think about USA until we’ve got this match out of the way.
“Expecting things in international rugby is a dangerous game. What we expect is a really tough match against Italy, just as we did against Spain. Italy scored in the first five minutes in the Six Nations and had us in all sorts of trouble at one point so we won’t be looking any further than Italy.”
Sunday marks the second of the three pool-stage matchdays, which bring all 12 teams in action. It is a format that gives teams only three days between matches – another reason Middleton does not want his side to peak too early. “We trust in our squad, we talked about being efficient and effective against Spain – getting the job done in the right way because this is a marathon, not a sprint,” he added. “The tournament is over a short period of time but it’s very condensed and you have to look after your players and the energy levels within the squad.”
Elsewhere Wales, having been resoundingly beaten by New Zealand in their first game, face another tough test against Canada tomorrow. Canada were beaten finalists three years ago and thrashed Hong Kong 98-0 on Wednesday. Ireland, having edged out Australia 19-17 in a thrilling contest, entertain Japan. Things get no easier for Hong Kong, with New Zealand their opponents, while France are up against Australia and the USA face Spain.
Inside the London Stadium they have nothing but love for Mo Farah. On Saturday night Farah will race on the track there for the last time, in the 5,000m final, and whether he wins gold or not, the home fans will cheer every stride he takes. Here – where every roar carries an echo of 2012 – watching Farah run remains a straightforward pleasure, one people will pay a lot of money to experience. It is beyond the stadium walls that everything gets more complicated. Because out there not everyone is applauding. As Farah winds down his track career, his legacy and reputation have come to look as knotty and complicated as the tangled girders of the Orbit.
In 2014 the website Letsrun.com ran a “doping perception poll”. It was designed to show whether their readers perceived athletes to be “clean” or “dirty”. A lot of elite athletes (and their agents) hate Letsrun. It is the place where running junkies go to talk about the sport and its message boards are filled with anonymous commentators sharing scurrilous accusations and scuttlebutt. They are a cynical lot but then a lot of athletics fans are, because they have been lied to so many times – by Ben Johnson, Marion Jones, Tim Montgomery and all the other athletes who were caught doping.
Farah was one of the athletes Letsrun asked people to vote on. Of the 5,584 people who did, 56% thought he was “clean” and 44% thought he was “dirty”. Compare that with the polls for the two other great long distance runners of the modern era, Haile Gebrselassie and Kenenisa Bekele. Gebrselassie’s split was 73% “clean” to 27% “dirty” and Bekele’s 72% to 28%. Which does not mean Farah is doping, just that a lot of Letsrun’s readers think he is. And that is true in Britain too. Letsrun broke the results down by country. Among the 270 British voters, 64% thought Farah was clean, 36% did not.
Farah has never failed a drugs test, a fact he has repeated again and again. The trouble is, a lot of athletes who later admitted to doping used to say that too. Marion Jones passed 160 tests in a row (though she did eventually fail one, in 2006) and used that very argument when she sued Victor Conte for defamation because he said he had seen her take human growth hormone. They settled out of court. The IAAF’s anti-doping programme was so flawed for so long that every competitor has been compromised. After Lance Armstrong a lot of sports fans feel that passing tests is not a defence that passes muster.
That is not Farah’s fault but it is his problem. Because, hard as this is for his many fans to hear, his career invites scrutiny. To understand why, you need to go back a decade, to 2007. That year Farah set a personal best of 13min 7sec. That ranks, now, just within the thousand fastest times ever run. There is no hard rule about when a distance runner reaches his peak but a study of 72 elite 5,000m runners published in 2011 found the mean average age for the peak performance in that group was 24 years old, which is the age Farah was when he ran that PB.
At the world championships in Osaka that year Farah finished sixth in the 5,000m. At the world championships in Berlin in 2009 he finished seventh. By then he was 26. It is hard for an athlete to make a leap forward at that age but Farah did. In 2010, when he was 27, Farah lowered his PB by 9.6sec and then in 2011, when he was 28, he cut it again by another 4.83sec. He explained the biggest reason for the improvements was that he had spent his winters training in Kenya and Ethiopia. It was also said he had become a lot more disciplined in his training and more dedicated to his career.
By then Farah had also joined Nike’s Oregon Project and started working under Alberto Salazar. “I believe he can just make that half-per-cent difference to get close to a medal,” Farah explained. Salazar did more than that. He turned Farah from the best distance runner in Britain into the best distance runner in the world. Farah won his first world championship title at Daegu in 2011, in the 5,000m. There was a lot of talk about the biomechanical changes Salazar had made to Farah’s technique, especially for his last-lap sprints, and the advanced machinery Farah was now using in training: underwater treadmills, cryogenic chambers and the like.
There was less discussion of Salazar’s medical and supplementation programmes. The details of those started to come out only in 2015, when ProPublica and BBC Panorama published a joint investigation in which two whistleblowers accused Salazar of experimenting with doping aids and of giving athletes prescription medicines they did not need. Salazar and the Oregon Project are still under investigation by the Unites States Anti-Doping Agency. An interim report, leaked earlier this year, gave an insight into how Salazar seemed to have been pushing the boundaries of what may be considered ethically permissible.
Then in 2016 another coach, Jama Aden, was arrested in Spain. Police found the banned performance-enhancing drug EPO in the room of one of his athletes. Farah had worked with Aden when he first started training in Kenya and had also visited his training camp in Spain. Aden was described as an “unofficial facilitator” whose only job was to hold a stopwatch while Farah ran laps.
“He’s not a close friend of mine,” Farah said but in his autobiography, published in 2014, he had said he and Aden “had known each other for years” and there are several photos of the two of them together. The apparent inconsistencies were unsettling.
As the athletics analyst Ross Tucker argues: “I’ve seen people saying Farah can’t escape the association but that his legacy would have been much stronger and healthier were it not for Salazar. However, I don’t see how that argument even exists. This is a man who midway through his career was working with one of Great Britain’s best coaches, and whose ceiling appeared to be finals of major global championships and European success. Whatever has been achieved to earn the legacy [and by medals, it is the greatest track career ever] is the result of Salazar and the training camps and so forth.” Tucker, a high-performance sports science consultant, is hosting the Inside Lane podcast for Runners World during these championships.
Aside from Farah’s associations with Salazar and Aden, there are other disturbing details. In 2015 it emerged Farah had missed two drugs tests, one in 2010 and another in 2011, which happened, he explained, because he had not heard the testers ringing his doorbell. Earlier this year Farah’s biological passport details were leaked to the press. They showed in 2015 Farah’s results had been flagged as “likely doping” but that, in April 2016, they had been checked and flagged as “normal with the last sample”. Farah’s spokesperson said “any suggestion of misconduct is entirely false and seriously misleading. Mo Farah has been subject to many blood tests during his career and has never failed a single one.”
It all adds up to a long list of hard questions. Farah says he is sick of answering them. Which is one reason why he made the curious decision to hire Freuds to help manage his PR. Farah has released a limited range of his blood test results for public scrutiny, he has reiterated he is committed to clean sport and, of course, he has passed every test he has ever taken. Aside from formally separating himself from Salazar, he must wonder what more he can do. Because in the past three years Farah has come under more scrutiny than any other athlete on the circuit and, at the end of it, he is still subject to suspicion. Loud as the sound will be when he runs on Saturday, listen harder, outside the stadium, and it may start to sound just a little thin.
This will be Mauricio Pellegrino’s first match in charge at St Mary’s but the 90 or so minutes will inevitably be overshadowed by missing parties. Neither the Southampton captain, Virgil van Dijk, or Swansea City’s playmaker, Gylfi Sigurdsson, will feature with question marks over their futures. Saints’ record signing, Mario Lemina, could make his debut after joining from Juventus on Tuesday and Pellegrino’s other summer signing, Jan Bednarek, could also feature. The 19-year-old striker Tammy Abraham is expected to lead the line on his full Swansea debut. Ben Fisher
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue St Mary’s Stadium
Last season Southampton 1 Swansea City 0
Referee Mike Jones
Last season G18, Y61, R1, 3.50 cards per game
Odds H 3-5 A 5-1 D 3-1
Subs from Gazzaniga, Taylor, Clasie, Long, Austin, Tadic, Lemina, Hojbjerg, Gardos, Pied, Targett, Bednarek, McQueen, Sims, Hesketh, Gallagher
Doubtful Yoshida (thigh)
Injured McCarthy (calf, unknown), Van Dijk (illness, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y59 R2
Top scorer (last season) Redmond 7
Subs from Birighitti, Mulder, Nordfeldt, Van der Hoorn, Narsingh, Montero, Grimes, Rangel, Bartley, Kingsley, Gorré, Mesa, Fulton, McBurnie
Doubtful None
Injured Llorente (broken arm, 26 Aug), Ki (knee, Sep), Dyer (achilles, Oct), Sigurdsson (unsettled, unknown)
Suspended None
Form n/a
Discipline (last season) Y56 R0
Top scorer (last season) Llorente 15
If there was a lighter side to a week in which doping dominated the sports headlines, it came in the discovery of O-desmethyltramadol in a sample taken from a horse called Wotadoll. Sitting in judgment, the British Horseracing Authority’s disciplinary committee accepted the explanation that the metabolite of the opioid tramadol – detected after the three-year-old bay filly finished unplaced at Wolverhampton – could be sourced to the urine of a groom who peed in the horse’s box after taking the medication for pain relief.
The Racing Post called it “an embarrassing leak” but peeing in a horse’s straw is apparently a common practice among Britain’s incontinent stable lads when they are supposed to be mucking out. The horse’s trainer, Dean Ivory, was fined £750. Later he announced his staff will be reminded of the proximity of the toilet block and, just to be on the safe side, encouraged to wear gloves.
There was also a four-legged animal involved in the announcement of Alberto Contador’s retirement: the creature from which, according to the multiple winner of cycling’s grand tours, a piece of meat had been taken and carried from Spain by a friend to provide him with a nourishing steak dinner during the 2010 Tour de France. Contador’s explanation of the clenbuterol found by drug testers failed to avert a two-year suspension and an expunged third victory in the world’s biggest bike race. Some admirers of his attacking style wanted to give the Spaniard the benefit of the doubt but his departure will sever another link with the era of Operación Puerto.
We ought to be beyond the stage of giggling at claims of cocaine traces picked up by a tennis player through kissing a girl in a Miami nightclub (Richard Gasquet in 2009, who was cleared of all charges by the court of arbitration for sport) or too much sex on his wife’s birthday producing an unnaturally elevated level of testosterone in a sprinter (Dennis Mitchell in 1998). It was certainly easier to keep a straight face while reading about the two-month suspension handed this week to Sara Errani, formerly the world’s No5 female tennis player. A test had revealed traces of letrozole, a drug used to treat her mother’s breast cancer and apparently picked up from a kitchen work surface.
But neither laughter nor compassion seemed an appropriate response to the soap opera of the men’s 100m final in the world championships last weekend, when the “two-time drugs cheat” Justin Gatlin helped deprive Usain Bolt of a golden farewell to the event in which the Jamaican is a triple Olympic champion. That is because there is no appropriate single response. Gatlin’s case is an awkward one, exposing the layers of moral complexity that can defeat the human urge to make a clean separation between right and wrong.
Gatlin’s first offence, at the age of 19, was for traces of amphetamine, said to have been given to him since childhood as part of a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Non-medical people might be surprised to find amphetamine used as a remedy for ADHD but that is apparently the reality of it and the authorities reinstated him halfway through a two-year suspension, while warning that any further offence would trigger a life ban. But by the time he was pinged for testosterone in 2006, while being coached by the notorious Trevor Graham, the rules had changed and he was given an eight-year ban which his lawyers succeeded in getting halved on appeal. So now we have Bolt retiring when clearly past his best at 30 and Gatlin – who is currently coached by none other than Mitchell – running faster than anyone at 35.
An hour or so before Gatlin celebrated his victory by raising an admonitory finger to his lips in response to the London crowd’s boos, Almaz Ayana had surged away from her rivals with a solo attack a mere 4km into the women’s 10,000m final. The Ethiopian ran the next 3km at a speed that would have won all but one of the women’s 3,000m races run throughout the world this year. The last 3km were barely any slower. To anyone not taking that into consideration it was a beautiful sight – like watching Michael Johnson in Atlanta in 1996, for instance. Such unanswerable dominance always takes the breath away until, as with Ayana, one is reminded of what it may mean.
Those who had read Martha Kelner’s investigation into drug testing in Ethiopian athletics – or rather the inefficiency of it – in these pages that very morning may have been rather less starry-eyed. They may even have wondered if this was a clear demonstration of the old maxim that, if something looks too good to be true, it almost certainly is. Ayana, of course, has previously declared herself “crystal clear” when answering inevitable questions in post-race press conferences. Only Jesus and training, she said, were responsible for her success.
And then there is Icarus, the documentary about the Russian government’s involvement in doping made available on Netflix and given a limited cinema release in this of all weeks. Bryan Fogel’s two-hour film starts small, with an experiment to see if he can improve his own performance as a competitive amateur cyclist through following the full Lance Armstrong menu of performance-enhancing drugs. But his encounter with Grigory Rodchenkov, who ran Russia’s anti-doping lab while simultaneously helping the country’s athletes to give it the swerve, leads him down another path, one that exposes the biggest state-run PED programme since the Berlin Wall came down.
The film traces a line from Rodchenkov and his colleagues through Vitaly Mutko, then the country’s sports minister and now its deputy prime minister, all the way to Vladimir Putin, who has used sport to help build his image as the embodiment of a newly virile Russia. The all-shootin’, all-fishin’, all-ridin’ Putin flashes his pecs at the world to emphasise that dominance – whether of an Olympic podium or in the annexation of neighbouring territory – is his nation’s natural and rightful characteristic.
The fact that Rodchenkov and his fellow whistle-blowers Yuliya and Vitaly Stepanov are in a US witness-protection programme illustrates the scale and gravity of the problem for sport. We are not in Iffley Road now, watching a medical student and his chums achieve immortality. We are in the world of strong-arm geopolitics, where people can be made to fear for their lives.
As it turned out, all the EPO and testosterone in the world could not make Fogel into a great bike racer. In fact they made him worse. In any other film that might have raised a laugh – but not in this film, not in this week, not in this world.
This summer, the athletics World Championships, men’s and women’s cricket, the Lions tour of New Zealand and Wimbledon have shown that the British public has an enduring passion for top level sport. We have the richest football league in the world, more major stadiums per capita than anywhere on Earth, and are widely credited with having staged the greatest Olympic Games of the modern era. Sport is a massive part of our life and our brand as a nation.
But sport is not immune from the mistrust that has undermined faith in other big institutions such as politics, business, religion and the media. On the surface, sport can feel secure. Fifa has faced corruption allegations for years, but football’s appeal and riches appear to keep growing. Cycling has a long, dark doping shadow, yet the crowds following Chris Froome’s triumph at this year’s Tour de France, and the global coverage, suggested a sport in robust health.
Doping’s shadow fell across last Saturday’s 100m final in London, because although the Russians had been banned for state-sponsored doping, twice-banned drug cheat Justin Gatlin ran home to beat the most popular athlete on the planet. The boos may have made people feel a little better, but the stadium was packed again the next night, the next, and the next. If there is a major sporting event, Brits will flock to watch it.
However, Fifa, the IAAF and other sports bodies would be wise not to be complacent. Evidence from Portland’s UK Sports Integrity Index suggests audiences are becoming more sensitive to reputational issues. Significantly, they are also now likely to do something about it. Over half of people surveyed indicated they will stop watching professional sports because of widespread cheating and corruption.
Dig a little deeper into the numbers, and it seems football and athletics have greatest cause for concern. More than six in 10 football fans believe that corruption is an issue in the game, while eight out of 10 athletics fans think performance-enhancing drugs are still a problem.
It may be that what some mean by corruption is a general feeling that the money now involved in football is out of control; and that the drugs issue in athletics and cycling is more an overhang from the past, than a reality still there today. The IAAF under Seb Coe did deal with Russia after all, and dealt with it well. Reputational currency in the bank. But the research shows how hard it can be to shift a negative perception once it starts to take hold.
Ultimately it is about the decisions taken, but also the manner in which they are communicated. Take the IAAF’s handling of Botswana athlete Isaac Makwala. An everyday situation – a bug doing the rounds of a venue to which people from all over the globe had flocked – was allowed to accelerate into a huge controversy in which the main complaint, of the athlete and his team, and the media, was “lack of effective communication”. Another bit of reputational currency lost.
And then as we look forward to the Fifa World Cup in Russia next year, might the dropping out of sponsors be the result not merely of the controversial decision to award the tournament to Putin, but the tipping point effect of years in which Fifa has become bloated, riddled with corruption and distant from the paying public?
Sports organisations – whether a major global sports body, or an individual club dependent on public support for survival and success – need to think more strategically, including about their communications. This means making their reputation a core part of their operations, not a by-product of external events.
It will take an awful lot for me to stop watching live sport. Indeed, this weekend I am breaking into a holiday in France to return to London for two days of athletics, and Burnley’s opening game of the season at Chelsea. But even I, fanatic though I am, did not watch the Community Shield when most years I would, have not yet been to a Test match this year, though normally I do, and gave Marseille’s opening match of the season, normally part of my holiday routine, a miss.
Maybe it is just age catching up with me. Or maybe I too am just feeling sport is in danger of losing some of its magic. All big sporting organisations and teams, not just football, need to wake up to the reality that reputational currency is of much greater value than the financial kind. Failure to do so will lead to empty seats as fans take their time, money and passions elsewhere.
• Alastair Campbell is a writer and former communications director to Tony Blair
Danny Rose has apologised to Tottenham for his “ill-judged” comments to a newspaper when the England full-back criticised the club’s lack of transfer activity and said he wants to return “back up north” before he retires.
On Thursday, the 27-year-old, who is recovering from a knee injury, aired his grievances in an outspoken interview with The Sun.
“Having had time to consider my actions, I acknowledge the timing and manner of what I said was ill-judged,” said Rose via a statement from his agents Base Soccer, which was published on Friday afternoon.
Statement from Base Soccer client, Danny Rose: pic.twitter.com/AvYZR5s3wv
“My words were not meant to offend and for that I would like to apologise to the chairman, manager, my team-mates and the fans. I’d also like to wish the lads good luck ahead of Sunday’s game against Newcastle.”
Mauricio Pochettino was due to hold his press conference on Friday afternoon before Spurs’ opening Premier League game against Newcastle on Sunday.
Scans on Kieran Trippier’s ankle injury have confirmed minor ligament damage. The defender limped out of the friendly victory over Juventus last week, with Tottenham stating he now faces “a short recovery time”.
I felt that Charlie McBride let himself down very badly with his comments during and after yesterday’s disciplinary hearing but the bit that really has me wincing is the inadequate level of punishment eventually meted out by the British Horseracing Authority’s panel. A fine of £1,500 bears no relation to the degree of negligence shown by McBride in mistakenly saddling the wrong horse to run at Yarmouth a fortnight ago, or to the damage to racing’s reputation or the frustration and financial loss suffered by punters and bookmakers.
Before the hearing began, a BHA spokesman quietly briefed attending reporters about the level of punishment that could be expected. While a low-level fine was specified in BHA guidelines for a breach of the relevant rule, the panel had the authority to go outside those guidelines and levy a higher fine if they thought it appropriate, he said.
But the junior member of staff who presented the BHA case to the panel made no such point and in fact made no verbal submission as to the penalty being sought, though I suppose she may have made a written submission that reporters did not see. Patrick Milmo QC, the panel chairman, then appeared to believe he really was constrained by the guidelines in delivering his verdict. He noted that the guidelines suggested fines of up to £2,000 and, as the panel felt this case belonged at the upper level of available punishments, the figure of £1,500 had been settled upon.
Given that McBride, by his own admission, had actually won a third of that sum in a bet on the winning horse, this fine seems woefully inadequate. Frankly, I’d have thought it was appropriate to impose a suspension period on McBride, during which he would be unable to make entries.
The BHA did not take this case seriously enough, for all that they ramped up their scanning of racehorse microchips in response. At no point during the BHA’s presentation was there any mention of whether or not McBride had backed the horse. That point was tackled only later in the hearing, when Milmo asked McBride directly.
Other unexplored avenues include: when did McBride place his bet, given that his explanations for not recognising his own horse are centred on being too busy to look at her? And also, why did McBride back his horse each-way in a seven-runner race, in which the bookies will pay only two places, bearing in mind he told the panel that third or fourth place was the best he could realistically hope for? There might be good answers to these questions. My first concern is that they don’t appear to have been put.
This is just the latest incident to put a dent in racing’s appeal as a betting medium, which undermines the sport’s future funding and therefore ought to have the BHA very worried indeed.
Let’s hope today’s action brings no further unexploded mines into racing’s harbour. My main interest is at Wolverhampton, where Cat Royale (3.50) is an 11-2 shot. John Butler’s charge ended a long losing run at this track last month, which the trainer attributed to a strong ride by Danny Brock, the horse having been partnered by an apprentice in previous outings. Brock is aboard again and Cat Royale remains below the mark from which he won on turf last year.
At a more conservative 13-8, Defining Moment (5.15) is easy to like in the last at Brighton. Rae Guest’s three-year-old filly improved to win a Yarmouth handicap last month and the form is working out, the runner-up having won yesterday.
In the last at Newmarket, I’m interested in 9-2 about Waqaas (8.10), who ran better than the form book tells when 12th on his reappearance last month in a quality race featuring a bit of bumping, from some of which he suffered. That was his first run for a full year, since he took his chance in the Richmond Stakes. If he’s sharper, this small-field affair could be much more winnable and he’s 9-2.
Wolverhampton
1.50 Swiss Chocolate 2.20 Bogsnog 2.50 Sancerre 3.20 Impact Point 3.50 Cat Royale (nap) 4.20 Whitecliff Park 4.50 Beadlam 5.25 Mutineer
Musselburgh
2.00 Sorority 2.30 Rumshak 3.00 Hellomoto 3.30 Alexandrakollontai 4.00 Sebastian’s Wish 4.30 Mambo Dancer 5.00 Tectonic
Brighton
2.10 Lake Volta 2.40 Gold Class 3.10 Free Forum 3.40 Harbour Rock 4.10 Highly Sprung 4.40 Screaming Gemini 5.15 Defining Moment
Newmarket
5.30 Lady Godiva 6.05 Lexington Grace 6.35 Symbolization 7.05 Swilly Sunset 7.35 Seduce Me 8.10 Waqaas
Haydock
5.40 Donnachies Girl 6.15 Kashmiri Sunset (nb) 6.45 Exhort 7.15 Shazzab 7.45 White Mocha 8.20 Granny Roz
A Hong Kong pro-democracy activist says he was beaten and had his legs stapled by Chinese agents because he was planning to send a signed photo of Lionel Messi to a dissident’s widow.
Howard Lam, a member of Hong Kong’s Democratic party, said he was snatched on the street on Thursday, forced into a car and made to smell something that caused him to lose consciousness.
When he came to after being hit with a hard object, he was wearing only his underwear and a blindfold, Lam told reporters on Friday.
He said he was interrogated about his intention to send a picture of the Barcelona footballer Messi to Liu Xia, the widow of Nobel peace prize laureate Liu Xiaobo.
“A man asked if I knew Liu Xia, and why I was doing all these things,” Lam said, according to the South China Post.
“The man also said: ‘Are you a Christian? Do you know how to love the country and the religion? … I’ll give you some crosses,’ he said, and then he stapled my legs.”
Lam showed reporters cross marks he said had been made by the staples. He said his abductors spoke Mandarin, China’s national language but rare in Cantonese-speaking Hong Kong.
Before he died of cancer while in custody last month, Liu Xiaobo wrote to Barcelona to ask for a signed photo of Messi because he thought it would cheer him up.
Lam said he had previously received a call from a Chinese person claiming to be part of the mainland intelligence service and warning him not to give the picture to Liu Xiaobo’s widow, the artist and poet Liu Xia.
He said his ordeal lasted nine hours before he eventually found himself dumped on a beach in Hong Kong’s remote Sai Kung district at 1am on Friday.
The Democratic party has railed against what it says is meddling in Hong Kong’s affairs by Communist party rulers in Beijing. The city state became a special administrative region of China in 1997, since when it has been governed under a one country, two systems formula that guarantees a range of freedoms not enjoyed in China.
The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, swore in Hong Kong’s new leader last month with a stark warning that Beijing would not tolerate any challenge to its authority in the city as it marked the 20th anniversary of its return from Britain to China.
Hong Kong’s police commissioner, Lau Wai-chung, told media he was taking Lam’s accusations seriously and officers were attaching great importance to investigating the case.
The Hong Kong and Macau affairs office of China’s state council did not comment.
Liu Xia has lived in the Chinese capital under virtual house arrest since her husband won the Nobel peace prize in December 2010. Her whereabouts since his death are a mystery and the couple’s US lawyer has claimed the Chinese authorities are behind what he says is her enforced disappearance.
Star man: Manolo Gabbiadini started his Southampton career with six goals in four matches after his arrival in January, raising hopes that he could be the new Rickie Lambert. Then he got injured and went on an eight-game barren run, which was a bit Brett Ormerod. In the Italian’s defence, though, the football under Claude Puel was really boring and the £14.6m buy from Napoli showed enough instinctive awareness in the penalty area before injury stalled his momentum to suggest the 25-year-old won’t go down as a flash in the pan.
Biggest summer buy: The £5m Polish centre-back Jan Bednarek began his career at Lech Poznan, although hopefully that won’t mean he spends the entire time with his back to play. The 21-year‑old represented his country at the European Under-21 Championship this summer and his arrival could pave the way for Virgil van Dijk to leave.
Breakthrough season: The academy that produced Gareth Bale, Calum Chambers, Adam Lallana, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Theo Walcott and James Ward-Prowse has experienced a minor lull of late, with the next great bunch of kids yet to force their way into the first team. But after helping England win the Under-20 World Cup, there could be opportunities for the 18-year-old midfielder Callum Slattery.
Bad boy: Oriol Romeu is a product of La Masia but the former Barcelona enforcer exudes more of a bite-yer-ankles vibe than a relish for tiki-taka and picked up 13 bookings last season.
Boo boy: Southampton fans might be leaving out the second syllable in Sofiane Boufal’s surname if the Moroccan creator continues to underwhelm.
Destination Russia: With Denmark battling with Montenegro for second place in their qualification group, the 21-year-old midfielder Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg could do with asserting himself at St Mary’s this term.
Glass half-full:A new manager brings with him fresh optimism. They’re too good to go down. They were in League One five minutes ago!
Glass half-empty: It’s like watching a balance sheet play football and their fans would even take a relegation battle if it meant feeling alive again.
The manager: Mauricio Pellegrino took Alavés to the Copa del Rey final, hates losing, frets when he wins and says he only wants players who are 1000% committed to Southampton, so the Argentinian is likely to be more exciting than Puel, not least because it’s going to be hilarious when people confuse him with the former Saints manager Mauricio Pochettino.
The owners: In a recent reshuffle Katharina Liebherr, the owner, resigned as a director, leaving the day-to-day running to Ralph Krueger, Les Reed and Martin Semmens. Southampton have come far since the dark days of administration, but fans would like to see more ambition.
Steve Grant’s fan’s view:Will probably be similar to last season, in truth. There might be a slight increase in energy under the new manager but the squad has barely changed, so more of the same is expected. Prediction: 8th.Follow Steve @SteveGrant1983
Do you think the Premier League is the toughest in the world? That’s what many call it and understandably so given the quality of the top teams, the increasing size of transfer fees and wages, and the sheer exposure that it is subject to all over the globe.
But does that make it true? I don’t think so. I’m about to return to the top tier with Brighton and for much of the summer I’ve been asked the following questions:
“How will you adjust to the Premier League?”
“How many signings will you need to make?”
“How much money will you need to spend to be competitive at the next level?”
So what are the main differences between the Championship and Premier League and is the gap really that large?
My career has almost exclusively been spent between the bottom half of the Premier League and the top half of the Championship so I have a very good insight into both and the qualities needed for relative success.
My opinion may surprise many inside and outside of the game, but it’s this: I have found it easier playing Premier League football than that of the Championship.
As a player, the physical, tough, nature of the Championship, coupled with the fact that there are eight more games to play in, often with much smaller squads, make it such a hard league.
The time to prepare both mentally and physically between games is often nonexistent and you are frequently playing with knocks, strains and fatigue due to the sheer volume of matches. If you are a tactically adept footballer, you will actually find the Premier League more suited to your qualities, where reading the game and being positionally sound are just as important as physical attributes.
You can add this to the fact that the Premier League calendar rarely has midweek fixtures, giving teams and players time to heal from the previous game and adjust tactically to the next possible opponents.
I would also say that in my experience the difference in quality between the bottom half of teams in the Premier League and the top half of the Championship is a lot closer than people make out. What affects opinion on the contrast are external influences such as inflated wages, bigger transfer fees, and increased media exposure.
However, if you actually sat and analysed a game between, for example, Watford and Burnley last season, would it be that much of a higher standard than Sheffield Wednesday against Fulham? In playing these types of games I can honestly say it’s minimal at best.
In fact, I’d go further. I think that the sheer amount of money spoken about in today’s bloated transfer market has blinded people when it comes to appraising the standard of the Premier League, especially in comparison to that of the Championship.
Obviously, the top seven teams in the Premier League are miles ahead in terms of quality and size of squads. But last season when Everton finished seventh and Southampton eighth the gap was a huge 15 points, while a difference of only six points separated 8th place from Watford in 17th. That, I believe, is a more realistic appraisal of how close most teams are to the relegation zone and just how tight the bottom half of the Premier League is.
The argument that it is a big step to the Premier League is understandable – especially to compete against the power of Chelsea, Arsenal, Manchester United etc – but that is not where a club such as ours at Brighton will be truly measured.
Success for us this year is breaking that 40-point barrier and maintaining our Premier League status for the following season, and that entails competing with teams such as Bournemouth, Burnley and Watford. It does not mean we have to spend over £20m on a player to guarantee our goals this season. Having a strong team spirit and structure are far more important qualities, at any level.
The incredible sums we have seen committed already this summer on players has further distorted the view that the key to success is spending in the transfer market and we have become obsessed with size of fees and wages. To add perspective, we should also factor in the increase in TV rights money and the conclusion is as simple as the fact that football is operating in a market.
If the prices of players have gone up it’s because the market has dictated that, it’s not the actual quality of player which evaluates the fee. It’s normal for supporters to worry if the team they are following is up against one which has been signed for millions of pounds but the fact remains that the beauty of this amazing sport that it is still 11 playing as a team against 11.
At Brighton we will do well to remember that, to play without fear and enjoy the experience, because if we do we may have a few “multimillion-pound superstars” ourselves.
Star man: Philippe Coutinho has a box full of tricks, though his most reliable party piece involves him peeling in from the wing and pearling a shot into the corner. Everyone knows it’s coming, though few seem capable of stopping it. A gnawing sense of inevitability also surrounds a move to Spain, the playground for all serious South American talent in the end. So enjoy him while you can, should Liverpool see out August without Barcelona ripping out their heart for the second time in three years.
Biggest summer buy: Mohamed Salah joined from Roma for a fee that could rise as high as £44m. That broke the club record, though with the market having subsequently overheated, it now looks a snip for a player who can operate on either wing with pace, panache and a calm eye for goal.
Breakthrough season: The 18-year-old right back Trent Alexander-Arnold made his first league start at Manchester United last season. Thrown in at the deep end, he kept Anthony Martial relatively quiet, a feat that had been beyond Martin Skrtel the season before. He’s more than happy to augment the attack, and ensures a local presence in the team.
Bad boy: Emre Can is an all-action midfielder. Problem is, all of those actions are conducted very slowly, pace and speed of thought not prominent in his otherwise impressive skill set. As a result, he has a tendency to throw himself into tackles he’s not certain to win. Jordan Henderson picked up more bookings last season – eight to Can’s six – but it’s the German who usually ends up skating on the thinnest ice.
Boo boy: Dejan Lovren was part of a defence that did not concede a goal during the final four matches of last season. Yet he very nearly cost Liverpool fourth place, inexplicably unpunished for hauling down Patrick Bamford when last man in the last game against Middlesbrough. It was Lovren in microcosm: solid for the most part, but capable of astonishing and sometimes costly lapses. He’s also fond of clanking passes straight into the stand under no pressure whatsoever. The patience of fans is not infinite.
Destination Russia: In 2014 Divock Origi became the youngest player to score for Belgium at a World Cup. The goals have dried up since: none in his last 10 appearances, a run that stretches back over two-and-a-half years. Time for Liverpool’s fourth-choice striker to convert potential into practice.
Glass half-full: A first league title for 28 years, or a first cup in six. Either would do, else the club suffer their longest trophy drought since the 1950s.
Glass half-empty: A season in the Europa League, accompanied by nagging regret that their crack team of negotiators managed to sour relations with Southampton and Leipzig so spectacularly.
The manager: Jürgen Klopp has transformed Brendan Rodgers’s flaky entertainers into a team that are entertaining but flaky. But a little folksy charm goes a long way and Klopp has earned himself plenty of time and space to implement his heavy-metal project. The fans will have his back, even if the press pile on.
The owners: Boston Red Sox owners FSG rescued the club from the risible regime of Tom Hicks and George Gillett. They’ve got the finances back on an even keel. And they’ve built an imposing new main stand, ensuring the club remain at Anfield in the process. But a perception that they’re not prepared to go large in the transfer market has lost some goodwill. Expect a few moans if the window closes without further additions.
Steph Jones’ fan’s view: It’s pretty much Klopp’s side now. I can’t see us repeating the pattern after recent good seasons of finishing on a high in May only to collapse by autumn. And it’s great to be back in the Champions League. Prediction: 1st.
Star man: It’s probably not a brilliant sign when a team’s best player is their goalkeeper, but it does at least give a feeling of security, like a warm blanket. Ben Foster has been player of the year in three of his six years at the Hawthorns, which might be partly down to his excellence, or the lack of anything especially inspiring in front of him.
Biggest summer buy: Jay Rodriguez arrived from Southampton for £12m, one of a certain clutch of players about whom one thinks: “Hasn’t he already played for West Brom? No? Huh.” Beyond that transfer pickings have been quite slim, leading to Tony Pulis wearing an even grimmer facial expression than usual.
Breakthrough season: Pulis isn’t known for his commitment to youth but last season he described the 19-year-old midfielder Sam Field as being “as good and as gifted as any footballer I’ve seen at that age”. Young Field may play a big role and as a bonus is a dream for lovers of puns.
Bad boy: Here’s a possibly surprising fun fact: West Brom didn’t get a single red card last season. Nevertheless, it would be a brave soul who challenged Claudio Yacob to a duel, and James McClean isn’t to be messed with either.
Boo boy: Nacer Chadli’s “give a stuff” levels seemed to drop in the second half of last season, while McClean will get it in the neck around 11 November for his perfectly understandable stance on poppies. But if Pulis’s whole “reach 40 points then the team falls off a cliff” tendency isn’t solved, the boo boy might be the manager.
Destination Russia: Salomón Rondón’s Venezuela have already been eliminated from qualification, it’s touch and go for some of the home nations and Allan Nyom isn’t a shoo-in for Cameroon. Their sole representative might be Ahmed Hegazy, an Egyptian defender on loan from al-Ahly.
Glass half-full: Albion manage to sort out the Pulis problem of surviving but little more, inject a little bit of pizzazz into their team, challenge for European competition and maybe have a run at a cup, too.
Glass half-empty: Pulis has a tantrum and leaves, they lose the solidity that made them certainties to stay up and their ultimately quite limited squad ends up floundering somewhere near the bottom three.
The manager: In an uncertain world, the solidity and predictability of Pulis is quite comforting. He will get you to the magical, mythical, marvellous total of 40 points, but then do very little else. Consistently baseball-capped, trainers always shiny, he will never sit down when it’s possible to stand.
The owners: Last summer West Brom became the latest team to be bought by Chinese investors, namely the snappily named Yunyi Guokai (Shanghai) Sports Development Limited. Their chairman is Guochuan Lai, who made billions in the plant business. That’s things that grow, rather than digging equipment. Make your own jokes there.
Richard Jefferson’s fan’s view: As things stand, it’s hard to see anything but a hard season and potential trouble. Once again we’re leaving it very late in the window – there are huge holes in the squad to be filled. The natives are restless. Prediction: 17th. Follow Richard @richbaggie
Star man: As endorsements from rival managers go, Antonio Conte’s recent praise for Harry Kane takes some beating. “If I had to buy one striker I would go to Kane,” the Chelsea manager said. “He is a complete striker.” But the only way the Italian will be allowed near Kane is if he stumps up for Tunnel Club membership at the new White Hart Lane, and even then he’ll have his nose pressed against the glass. Tottenham need the player who won last season’s golden boot with 29 Premier League goals to front their title challenge.
Biggest summer buy: Tottenham have refused to buy into the summer madness gripping the majority of Premier League clubs, reasoning that they would rather develop their players instead of paying extortionate sums for the sake of it. However, they could do with an extra sprinkling of class for the Champions League and believe that they can coax the best out of Everton’s unsettled Ross Barkley.
Breakthrough season: Marcus Edwards’s jinking wing play has earned the 18-year-old from Camden the nickname “Mini Messi”. No pressure, then.
Bad boy: Eric Dier warned that he would be waiting for Ander Herrera after school when the Manchester United midfielder elbowed him during a friendly between England and Spain last year. Herrera only came out of hiding when Dier clarified that he was joking.
Boo boy: Harry Redknapp wouldn’t have to tell Moussa Sissoko to “just fucking run around a bit” if he was still managing Spurs. But supporters are unimpressed with the anti-Roman Pavlyuchenko. Turns out the £30m chugger was being serious when he put “blundering down blind alleys” under strengths.
Destination Russia: Érik Lamela has not played since 25 October and will miss the start of the season after hip surgery, but he could win back his place in Argentina’s squad if he resurfaces.
Glass half-full: After overtaking Arsenal, anything is possible. A first league title in 57 years. An accurate pass from Sissoko. A win at Wembley.
Glass half-empty: Even Gent got past them at Wembley, where they are yet to find a cure for Spursiness.
The manager: Though he is Argentinian, Mauricio Pochettino is not exactly cut from the same cloth as Ossie Ardíles, who reckoned his attacking Famous Five would mask his team’s inability to defend. Pochettino’s manic pressing enables the right mix between defensive organisation and flair play.
The owners: While the Bahamas-residing Joe Lewis provides the dosh from his 321ft superyacht, Daniel Levy is the face of the operation. The chairman has not always been popular with White Hart Lane regulars, who reckon he should back his managers more, but they’re starting to warm to Levynomics. After all, who else could have got £50m for Kyle Walker?
Jonny Holmes’ fan’s view: This season is all about one word: Wembley. If we can get to grips with playing there, I reckon we’ll be in with a sniff. But we do need more creativity in the squad. Prediction: 2nd.
Star man: Young, handsome, athletic, zanily coiffed, beloved of sponsors and insanely skilful, all Paul Pogba needs to become the perfect Manchester United midfielder is to actually become a bit more influential in their matches. At 6ft 3in he does, however, comply with José Mourinho’s basic demand that all his players be absolutely massive.
Biggest summer buy: Romelu Lukaku is statistically monstrous, scoring 26 times in 39 games last season and 104 times in 184 starts in this country, and only recently turned 24, and though he is not so prolific against the top sides against Sunderland, West Ham, Aston Villa and Bournemouth he has 26 in 32 matches at 0.81 goals per game. At 6ft 3in he too is absolutely massive.
Breakthrough season: Scott McTominay broke into the squad in April, playing six substitute minutes plus the entire last game of the season against Crystal Palace, and has impressed in pre-season. The former reserves coach Warren Joyce believes he is “technically sound with good skills” and “could be a proper box-to-box aggressive midfielder”, plus at 6ft 4in – nearly a foot taller than he was at the start of 2015 – he is also absolutely massive.
Bad boy: Ten people played more Premier League minutes than Marouane Fellaini last season but none outcarded the thistle-headed Belgian, who is only ever a stray elbow’s width from another early bath.
Boo boy: That’ll be Fellaini again. “Honestly, I just smiled,” he said of the hostile reception he received when preparing to come on as a substitute against Tottenham last December. “I told myself it was rubbish: real fans don’t boo their players.” After that match Mourinho said the midfielder “is a player and a person I like” who “will always have my protection”. Plus at 6ft 4in he is absolutely massive.
Destination Russia: Antonio Valencia is some kind of Ecuadorian superhero, commenting regularly about politics, filming videos of himself chopping plantain for the national dish, corviches, and also being the greatest football player they have ever produced. But Ecuador’s participation next year is currently, like those plantains, on a knife edge.
Glass half-full: Last season may have been in many ways disappointing, but when disappointment involves two cups and a 25-game unbeaten league run you can’t really grumble.
Glass half-empty: A team of giants playing dull but effective football might bring home some silverware but it’s just not very Manchester United.
The manager: Mind-game magician and trophy-hoarding miracle-worker Mourinho has always – in every single job – won a league title in his second season. As he sometimes follows that by guiding teams to total implosion if allowed to stick around for a third there’s some pressure on this campaign.
The owners: The Glazers’ firm owns more than 6.7m square feet of premium retail space in the US, helping them to a ranking of 63 in Forbes’ list of America’s richest families. United will cough up £18m this year for the pleasure of being owned by them.
Shaun O’Donnell’s fan’s view: We’ll definitely challenge for the title – we may fall short but José knows this is a steady restoration job, not a quick fix. Mourinho has signed established top-flight experience in bringing in Matic and Lukaku, and he’ll get it right, but I am afraid it will not be with the swagger and panache of Sir Alex Ferguson’s teams.
Prediction: 2nd.
Do you think the Premier League is the toughest in the world? That’s what many call it and understandably so given the quality of the top teams, the increasing size of transfer fees and wages, and the sheer exposure that it is subject to all over the globe.
But does that make it true? I don’t think so. I’m about to return to the top tier with Brighton and for much of the summer I’ve been asked the following questions:
“How will you adjust to the Premier League?”
“How many signings will you need to make?”
“How much money will you need to spend to be competitive at the next level?”
So what are the main differences between the Championship and Premier League and is the gap really that large?
My career has almost exclusively been spent between the bottom half of the Premier League and the top half of the Championship so I have a very good insight into both and the qualities needed for relative success.
My opinion may surprise many inside and outside of the game, but it’s this: I have found it easier playing Premier League football than that of the Championship.
As a player, the physical, tough, nature of the Championship, coupled with the fact that there are eight more games to play in, often with much smaller squads, make it such a hard league.
The time to prepare both mentally and physically between games is often nonexistent and you are frequently playing with knocks, strains and fatigue due to the sheer volume of matches. If you are a tactically adept footballer, you will actually find the Premier League more suited to your qualities, where reading the game and being positionally sound are just as important as physical attributes.
You can add this to the fact that the Premier League calendar rarely has midweek fixtures, giving teams and players time to heal from the previous game and adjust tactically to the next possible opponents.
I would also say that in my experience the difference in quality between the bottom half of teams in the Premier League and the top half of the Championship is a lot closer than people make out. What affects opinion on the contrast are external influences such as inflated wages, bigger transfer fees, and increased media exposure.
However, if you actually sat and analysed a game between, for example, Watford and Burnley last season, would it be that much of a higher standard than Sheffield Wednesday against Fulham? In playing these types of games I can honestly say it’s minimal at best.
In fact, I’d go further. I think that the sheer amount of money spoken about in today’s bloated transfer market has blinded people when it comes to appraising the standard of the Premier League, especially in comparison to that of the Championship.
Obviously, the top seven teams in the Premier League are miles ahead in terms of quality and size of squads. But last season when Everton finished seventh and Southampton eighth the gap was a huge 15 points, while a difference of only six points separated 8th place from Watford in 17th. That, I believe, is a more realistic appraisal of how close most teams are to the relegation zone and just how tight the bottom half of the Premier League is.
The argument that it is a big step to the Premier League is understandable – especially to compete against the power of Chelsea, Arsenal, Manchester United etc – but that is not where a club such as ours at Brighton will be truly measured.
Success for us this year is breaking that 40-point barrier and maintaining our Premier League status for the following season, and that entails competing with teams such as Bournemouth, Burnley and Watford. It does not mean we have to spend over £20m on a player to guarantee our goals this season. Having a strong team spirit and structure are far more important qualities, at any level.
The incredible sums we have seen committed already this summer on players has further distorted the view that the key to success is spending in the transfer market and we have become obsessed with size of fees and wages. To add perspective, we should also factor in the increase in TV rights money and the conclusion is as simple as the fact that football is operating in a market.
If the prices of players have gone up it’s because the market has dictated that, it’s not the actual quality of player which evaluates the fee. It’s normal for supporters to worry if the team they are following is up against one which has been signed for millions of pounds but the fact remains that the beauty of this amazing sport that it is still 11 playing as a team against 11.
At Brighton we will do well to remember that, to play without fear and enjoy the experience, because if we do we may have a few “multimillion-pound superstars” ourselves.
Hull City last season became the 15th of 25 teams to be promoted to the Premier League via the play-offs to be immediately relegated, a 60% failure rate, making it by a considerable margin the least propitious method of promotion. Eight of them, nearly a third, have finished bottom of the league at the first attempt. In the same time nine Championship winners have gone down (36%) and nine second-place teams (37.5% – there was one year without automatic promotion for the team that finished second in the second tier).
In the past three summers, Premier League clubs have completed 464 incoming transfers, including loans. The 51 teams that avoided relegation in the following season averaged 7.4 summer transfers each; the nine teams who went down averaged 9.4. Completing more than 10 deals in a summer is particularly dangerous: 56% (five out of nine) of the teams that were relegated did so, compared with 16% (eight out of 51) of clubs that stayed up. Having said that, West Ham, Bournemouth and Watford have done so in each of the last two summers and got away with it.
In case the Benin striker’s record of six goals in 51 top-flight appearances does not put potential suitors off, the implications of signing him surely will: Gestede has appeared for three teams in three Premier League seasons and been relegated three times, helping Cardiff City, Aston Villa and Middlesbrough to their doom. Meanwhile Adama Traoré is on a relegation hat-trick, having also been at Villa and Boro.
If you want to stay up, you need to get the defence right. You can’t just Keegan your way to survival, and preventing goals is considerably easier than scoring them. More than 1,000 Premier League goals have been scored in seven of the last eight seasons, and in those years conceding fewer than 1.5 goals per game has guaranteed safety, with the solitary exception of Middlesbrough last season who let in only 1.39 but could barely score at all.
If there’s one thing that links recent relegatees, it’s September underachievement. Obviously bad teams do badly most of the time, but the last 18 to go down averaged 0.83 points from every non-September game, and a statistically unlikely 0.47 in that month. Only four of the past 18 relegated sides won a September game (and two of those were Norwich City), while six got no points at all, and another six got one.
Star man: When Leicester play well Jamie Vardy is their rapier thrust, their razor-sharp defensive balloon-burster. When they play poorly he is their one-man get-out clause, capable of turning hopeful punts into perfect through balls and games of few chances into victories. On the downside, this can encourage them to try hopeful punts.
Biggest summer buy: Kelechi Iheanacho’s £25m move from Manchester City was massively delayed by a spat between agents about which of them should earn most from his image rights, a contretemps that says a lot about the state of modern football. He scored with 12 of only 19 shots on target in the league for his former club, which as chance-conversion goes makes him not so much dangerous as actually radioactive.
Breakthrough season: Sam Hughes has signed as one for the future but the 20-year-old has already made 64 appearances for Chester, becoming the youngest captain in their history in the process, and is considered a centre-back of great promise.
Bad boy: With 72 yellow cards last season but only one red, Leicester seem to know which side of the line to stay on, but Danny Simpson’s nine cautions before the turn of the year make him a prime candidate. Three booking-free months followed but four in his last eight games hinted at a return to form.
Boo boy: Ahmed Musa’s agent memorably insisted in April that “everyone knows he is a jolly good fellow”, but Leicester fans are far from convinced that he’s a jolly good footballer, and police being called to deal with an argument with his now-divorced first wife in April didn’t help his reputation.
Destination Russia: Claudio Ranieri said that Shinji Okazaki’s international exertions meant “he loses his energy” and “isn’t the true Shinji” when he returns to England, but with 50 international goals to his name, a third World Cup on the horizon and a season of bench‑based relaxation apparently in store for the forward the club’s loss could be Japan’s gain.
Glass half-full: The last season that fans approached so pessimistically ended with them winning the league.
Glass half-empty: Lightning doesn’t strike twice.
The manager: Craig Shakespeare has been rewarded for last season’s successful relegation swerve with a three-year contract, but many fans are yet to be convinced that he is the long-term answer. The club’s former performance psychologist says: “If his coaching career ever goes wrong he could be a stand-up comedian.”
The owners: The duty-free magnate Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha, known for landing his helicopter on the pitch before matches and buying everyone in the stadium beer and cake on his birthday, has been a model owner so far, but recent investments in racehorses and the Belgian club Leuven show the Thai is starting to spread his sporting splurges.
Chris Whiting’s fan’s view: There’s no reason why we can’t be the best of the rest. It’s in our hands: if the players stick to their high-octane style they can beat anyone – which Ranieri didn’t quite get. Prediction: 7th. Follow Chris @ChrisRWhiting
Star man: The wanderer returns! Wayne Rooney enters a new phase of his career: that of elder statesman, tasked with drawing on a dozen years of success at Manchester United to re‑establish a winning mentality at a club without a trophy since 1995. Hopefully he took plenty of notes while watching the inspirational veteran Zlatan Ibrahimovic walk the walk last season.
Biggest summer buy: Jordan Pickford, a great shot stopper with two feet in the modern footballing style. Also possesses a steely determination to keep the ball out any which way, a penchant that may remind older patrons of a certain Neville Southall.
Breakthrough season: Everton have more than their fair share of young talent, and in Ronald Koeman a manager not afraid to throw kids in at the deep end. The midfielder Tom Davies and the sharp‑shooting Ademola Lookman have already announced themselves to the Premier League, as a stunned Manchester City will attest, while during the summer Dominic Calvert‑Lewin won the Under-20 World Cup final for England.
Bad boy: The irrepressible Idrissa Gueye brings steel and purpose to the midfield, and bookings go with the territory. The Senegalese picked up yellow cards at a rate of one every three matches last season.
Boo boy: Fans have a way of forgiving and forgetting, as illustrated by the warm reception the once-reviled Rooney received against Ruzomberok. But expect a few mutterings, and maybe even a bit of loud scribbling in the press box, if the remarriage hits a rocky patch and Rooney struggles to provide the assists and goals expected of him. Either way, Rooney will be a lightning conductor for attention, allowing everyone else to quietly develop.
Destination Russia: The whip-smart Sandro might be the cleverest signing of the summer. If he matches his one-in-two scoring rate for Málaga, a step up from the Spain Under-21s squad might be on the cards.
Glass half-full: Earn a spot in next season’s Champions League, preferably at the expense of the shower over the park.
Glass half-empty: The last time Everton grasped a spot, the shower over the park trumped them by winning the damn thing.
The manager: Koeman has given form to a previously shapeless mess, with both defence and midfield organised in the flexible and cerebral Dutch style. He also brings gravitas to the post and has got Everton heading in the right direction. The only worry is that he’s doing it all with one eye on Barcelona.
The owners: Majority shareholder Farhad Moshiri made his money by running USM, the investment arm of the Uzbek-Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov’s mining and telecoms portfolio. A modern-day take on the John Moores/Littlewoods Pools dynamic of the 1960s, though no one will be calling Everton “the Bank of England club” this time.
Steve Jones’ fan’s view: There’s real optimism after the way the club has gone about its transfers. We’ll miss Lukaku’s goals but with Sandro, Klaassen and Rooney they should be spread around.
Prediction: 6th. Follow Steve @bluekippercom
Star man: N’Golo Kanté won the awards last season, but Eden Hazard remains Chelsea’s creative driving force. You wonder whether they would have won either of their past two league titles without him and the question now is whether he can repeat last season’s brilliance, in the way that he couldn’t in 2015-16.
Biggest summer buy: Álvaro Morata has some pretty robust boots to fill. Whereas Diego Costa resembled a half-finished granite statue, all rough edges and gritty surfaces, Morata is more smooth marble, a man who looks like a GQ model rather than a weathered cliff. But the important thing to replace is goals: 22 of them last season in all competitions, despite Costa not being Antonio Conte’s cup of tea.
Breakthrough season: The “funny” answer would be to say: go and watch Vitesse Arnhem to see any Chelsea youngsters. But let’s not do that. The defender Andreas Christensen is not exactly unknown, having spent two years with Borussia Mönchengladbach, but he’s probably the closest thing Chelsea have to a fresh, wet-behind-the-ears kid who might make a first-team impact.
Bad boy: With Costa on his way out there is certainly a vacancy here, but there aren’t too many other obvious hard cases in the squad. Antonio Rüdiger, the new signing from Roma, may be one to watch out for: he got sent off for a brutal shin-high foul in the Rome derby last season.
Boo boy: If Morata doesn’t get early goals then he might be in for some rough treatment, and equally if anyone blabs to the papers and is thus deemed a “snake”, we could see a few pretty brutal signs on laminated bits of A4 paper.
Destination Russia: Most of the team will probably be there, where David Luiz and Willian will be trying to wash off the stench of shame from last time, Morata and Cesc Fàbregas attempting to get Spain’s mojo back, and Victor Moses looks good to make it with Nigeria, too.
Glass half-full: A repeat of José Mourinho’s first post‑title season (first spell), in which the champions retain their crown with strutting ease, the new additions integrate and Conte’s authority is thoroughly augmented.
Glass half-empty: A repeat of Mourinho’s first post-title season (second spell), in which the champions collapse into ignominy and in-fighting, with the new additions spoiling the flow of the team and Conte’s authority thoroughly eroding.
The manager: Usually clad in a finely cut suit, Antonio Conte keeps in shape through his own interpretation of high‑intensity interval training, dashing up and down the touchline in short, intense bursts. He recently claimed that he lost three kilos every game because of his pitchside antics. He’ll waste away if he’s not careful.
The owners: Roman Abramovich, his fortune gathered from the oilfields of Russia, takes more of a backseat at Chelsea these days. But if things start going south, you know he’ll be there to deal with the problem, quietly and efficiently. You won’t even hear it coming.
Fan’s view
Trizia Fiorellino’s fan’s view: It’s hard to know how to feel: Conte made no secret we needed to strengthen but the club failed to deliver. To enter the campaign with this thin a squad is pushing our luck. Prediction: 2nd. Follow Trizia @chelseasupportersgroup.net
This is the age of the full-back – and that says a lot. For years full-backs were scorned as players who were not defensively sound enough to play in the middle of the back four nor technically good enough to play in midfield – “Nobody,” as Jamie Carragher has observed, “grows up wanting to be Gary Neville” – but this summer an astonishing amount of money has been spent on them. Most of the money, admittedly, has been splurged by Manchester City, who made Kyle Walker the most expensive defender in history at £50m then bought a back-up in Danilo for £26.5m before breaking their own record to sign Benjamin Mendy for £52m.
This is not just a Premier League phenomenon. Barcelona and Real Madrid have spent more than £26m on full-backs, while Milan have picked up a pair for the better part of £50m. But it is a phenomenon centred on City, where Pep Guardiola, having chosen not to augment his four thirtysomething full-backs last season, has swung to the opposite extreme. In City’s outlay on full-backs, three trends meet: Chelsea’s success with a back three last season has brought the lateral centre-stage; English clubs are spending mind-boggling amounts of money; and City, perhaps frustrated at how last season turned out, are spending (or, at least, have spent) the most of the lot.
But it is the overall figures that are most eye-catching. Romelu Lukaku for £75m. Álvaro Morata for £58m. Alexandre Lacazette for £46m. Bernardo Silva for £43.6m. Tiémoué Bakayoko for £39.7m. Mohamed Salah for £36.9m. Ederson for £34.9m. Victor Lindelof for £31m. These are not normal figures. These are not prices that have undergone the usual process of inflation; it may be, as Daniel Levy has said, that they are unsustainable. This is a market in which Jordan Pickford, an uncapped 23-year-old goalkeeper who has played 31 Premier League games (most of them very well, admittedly), can move for £25m with barely an eyebrow being raised.
Whether the prices are unjustifiable or immoral depends on perspective, but looking at the flurry of £30m, £40m and £50m deals, it doesn’t take a great cynic to wonder whether there might not be some sort of mass hysteria at work. Is this a bubble just waiting to pop? Will there come a day on which someone thinks: “£50m for Kyle Walker? What were we doing?” and the market collapses, vindicating the caution of Levy and, to a lesser extent, Arsène Wenger?
There are reasons for concern. Sky’s rebranding of its sports channels comes in response to falling viewing figures last season. Illegal streaming is a major problem, so significant that more than half those surveyed by the Football Supporters’ Federation in July admitted to using a Kodi box – more than had a BT subscription. Nonetheless, the expectation is for the next broadcast deal, which will come into force in 2019‑20, to be even larger than the present one, driven by a significant increase in overseas rights. The Premier League may be coming to the top of the market but it is not there just yet.
Perhaps we get the league we deserve. English football in the 1920s was characterised by innovation and pragmatism as the flux created by the first world war gave managerial opportunities to a class of people who had previously been excluded from such positions and who concerned themselves less with playing in the right way than with winning, because that was what guaranteed an income. The result was increasing use of the offside trap and ultimately, in response to that, an epochal change in the offside law. Or England’s 6-3 defeat by Hungary in 1953, followed three years later by the Suez crisis, creating an atmosphere of imperial decline that led to introspection, a questioning of tradition and the creative wave of the 60s, of which Alf Ramsey’s radical development of 4-4-2 and the World Cup win were an incongruous part.
This is what the Premier League is best at: turning the generation of cash and its expenditure into a spectator sport
Football is a part of culture, a reflection of the wider world – and that image is not a comfortable one. Ours is a society in which the people’s game has led to the extraordinary enrichment of a tiny few, in which we pay for our tickets and our satellite subscriptions, handing more and more money over to billionaires, and gawp when the amounts are relayed back to us via ridiculous transfer fees, salaries and agents’ commissions.
Not only do few seem to be appalled by the preposterousness of it all but there is an odd sense that for some fans this is the most enjoyable part of the season, when messiahs loom behind every contorted meme announcing a new deal and the game exists as pure, unsullied potential. The high point of Mesut Özil’s Arsenal career remains the day he signed. Far rather that, far rather the soap opera of agents and whispers, swoops and rumours, tactical projection and imagined combinations, the idealised simulacrum of the game, than the football itself. Behind those falling Sky figures a suspicion lurks that 90 minutes of play is too long to hold the modern attention span.
Yet unsettling as the nonsense of summer is, this is another season rich with promise. The fleet of new signings are part of that. This is what the Premier League is best at: turning the generation of cash and its expenditure into a spectator sport in itself. This remains the league of superstar managers and, if last season never quite ignited, that in a sense has only whetted the appetite for this campaign.
José Mourinho’s season was salvaged by the Europa League and Guardiola’s by a third-place finish, but neither really impressed in their first campaigns at their new clubs. The expected Rumble by the Irwell never quite came to pass, both too troubled by their own side’s failings – one couldn’t score; the other couldn’t defend – to be able to spend too much time needling. For this season that adds jeopardy. Neither club, having invested so much in appointing them, were going to sack their manager last season; this season they might.
Since joining Porto, Mourinho has always won the league in his second season at a club. There was little in 2016-17 to suggest he can do so again and become only the fourth manager ever to win the league with Manchester United, a club that have overwhelmed each of their leaders in the past century other than Matt Busby and Alex Ferguson – but the way they dragged themselves to the Europa League offers encouragement. The signing of Lukaku should help with the dispatching of the lesser clubs who so often frustrated them last season but the fear nags that football has moved on and Mourinho, energy sapped and charm exhausted, is struggling to keep up. Few managers, after all, have lasted more than a decade at the very top.
There is pressure too on Guardiola, all the more so now that his reaction to last season’s failure has been an extraordinary spree. Does juego de posición have any place in the harum-scarum world of the Premier League?
Elsewhere, can Jürgen Klopp’s high‑tempo philosophy prosper over a full season at Liverpool? Can Wenger survive another year with Arsenal? Can Mauricio Pochettino keep his young Spurs players invested in his project, even when they could be earning in some cases £5m more a season elsewhere? And what of Everton, expectations raised by spending unthinkable before Farhad Moshiri’s takeover?
And then there’s Antonio Conte, seemingly frustrated by his club’s transfer policy, who last season outshone them all to win the title and offered a new tactical template. Has he another trick to pull at Chelsea? It was, after all, his deployment of the 3-4-2-1 system that confirmed the importance of full-backs as attacking players, he who provided the structural underpinning for a world in which a club see their best way of reacting to a poor season as splurging £130m on a position once regarded as an afterthought.
Star man: Last season Josh King scored as many goals as he had in the previous four, but still the most frequently said sentence about him is: “Oh, I didn’t realise he’s Norwegian …”
Biggest summer buy: Jermain Defoe – Nathan Aké cost a hefty £20m, but their biggest summer arrival is Defoe, who at 34 seems to have hit upon a way of stopping the passage of time. He remains a goal threat, some three years after Tottenham dispatched him to the knacker’s yard/MLS.
Breakthrough season: Over the summer there was quite a clamour for the signature of Connor Mahoney, a 20-year-old winger who stood out at Blackburn Rovers last season. Admittedly that wasn’t enormously difficult to do, but after Bournemouth secured the youngster ahead of a few other clubs, he could make an impact.
Bad boy: Harry Arter. Collector of one red and a team-leading 11 yellow cards last season, Arter’s all-action style is the sort that will endear a player to the crowd, but not necessarily to referees. Perhaps it’s his retro 90s hairstyle, harking back to a more physical age.
Boo boy: It’s never a brilliant thing for a team’s most unpredictable player to be in goal, but Artur Boruc, the “holy goalie”, seems as if he’s only ever a heartbeat away from a calamity. Mercifully for any Bournemouth fan of a delicate constitution, the arrival of Asmir Begovic from Chelsea means Boruc’s outings should be relatively sporadic.
Destination Russia: Benik Afobe’s DR Congo are currently top of their group and possibly heading for their first World Cup since they played in 1974 as Zaire. Begovic could head there with Bosnia-Herzegovina, while Max Gradel’s Ivory Coast are on course to reach their fourth consecutive  finals.
Glass half-full:The good work of two seasons consolidating their Premier League status could be built on with their new shiny signings and a top-half finish really isn’t out of the question.
Glass half-empty: Defoe finally feels the ravages of time, Begovic gets a dose of the Borucs, Eddie Howe is tempted away by England when Gareth Southgate is caught out by a Fake Sheikh and relegation looms.
The manager: Eddie Howe is a man who looks so comfortable in a tracksuit you wouldn’t be surprised if he wore one to his wedding (just the evening do, he’s not an animal). Howe remains the bright young thing of English coaching. The question is: how long can the Cherries keep him?
The owners: The “fairytale” of Bournemouth’s rise through the divisions was spoiled slightly by their owner being a mysterious Russian billionaire, Maxim Demin, who supposedly made his money in petrochemicals. Demin’s wife, Irena, once gave a half-time team talk when they were 1-0 down to MK Dons in League One. They drew 2-2.
Fan’s view
Peter Bell’s fan’s view: It’s going to be hard to beat last season – but we’ve added experienced players and held on to Howe and King. Aké and Defoe are already big fans’ favourites, Begovic is a fine addition. Prediction: 10th.
Follow Peter @CherryChimes
Star man: In this squad?! You could make a case for striking superstar Sergio Agüero, the schemers Kevin De Bruyne, David Silva and Bernardo Silva, tricksy wingers Leroy Sané and Raheem Sterling, or the central midfield totem Yaya Touré. But nothing runs quite so smoothly if the captain, Vincent Kompany, is missing. Calm and dignified, he’s still City’s main man, despite all the millions spent.
Biggest summer buy: The rampaging left-back Benjamin Mendy nearly joined Sunderland as a raw 18-year-old in 2013 but the move was hijacked by Marseille. So instead of spending four years under the tutelage of Gus Poyet, Sam Allardyce and David Moyes, he’s been mentored by Marcelo Bielsa, then Leonardo Jardim at Monaco. City are now beneficiaries of one of the great sliding-doors moments.
Breakthrough season: Gabriel Jesus scored seven goals in 11 appearances last season. Had the Brazil striker not broken a metatarsal in February, there’s an argument that City could have won the league. As things stand, he’s merely hinted at his potential, and may rattle in an absurd number this season. He’s a penalty area predator of rare quality. How high can the 20-year-old go? Robbie Fowler? Gerd Müller?
Bad boy: A toss-up between Nicolás Otamendi, never comfortable against pace and with a large collection of yellow cards to prove the point, and the fiery Fernandinho. The Brazilian midfielder got himself sent off three times in six matches last season, covering most of the disciplinary bases: persistent fouling, throwing hands during a brouhaha, and reckless tackling.
Boo boy: John Stones made three errors leading directly to goals last season, while constantly inviting pressure on City’s back line with his rococo dribbles. Patience with the £47.5m centre-back may begin to wear thin should the penny fail to drop: even Franz Beckenbauer knew to hoick it clear sometimes.
Destination Russia: Ilkay Gündogan missed Germany’s World Cup win with a back problem, and Euro 2016 with a dislocated kneecap. Having subsequently suffered knee-ligament damage, he returns this season hoping dreadful luck doesn’t come in fours.
Glass half-full: A league title would be nice, but a first Champions League is the dream. City would finally scratch the itch they’ve had ever since Fenerbahçe turned them over half a century ago, while Pep Guardiola would prove beyond doubt he can do it without Messi.
Glass half-empty: A treble for United. Or, from the manager’s point of view, for José.
The manager: Pep Guardiola is in only his second year at the club, his first with a team significantly tailored to his own progressive specifications. Another year without a trophy wouldn’t be the end of the world providing significant progress is made against the big boys in Europe. He won’t hear the end of it should that happen, mind you; such are the downsides of being a superstar manager.
The owners: Sheikh Mansour, member of the Abu Dhabi ruling class and owner of a magic bottomless purse, has transformed City, to the point where they’ve finished above United for the past four years. His investments have also regenerated large sections of east Manchester.
Lloyd Scragg’s fan’s view: This should be our year, given the money spent and the overwhelming quality in the squad. The key signings are the full-backs: Walker, Danilo and Mendy. Prediction: 1st. Follow Lloyd @lloyd_scragg
Star man:Although the transfer window remains open, Wilfried Zaha looks certain to stay and is a firm fan favourite at Selhurst Park. He impressed his manager with his trademark directness, speed and trickery during the pre-season Asia Trophy in Hong Kong.
Biggest summer buy: The purchase of Jaïro Riedewald from Ajax for £7.9m constitutes Palace’s biggest bit of business so far this summer. The 20-year-old Holland international made his Ajax debut under Frank de Boer at the age of only 17 and will play on the left side of a back three this season.
Breakthrough season: Sullay Kaikai, a 21-year-old Londoner and product of the Palace academy, scored on his first-team debut and has spent time on loan at Brentford, Shrewsbury Town, Cambridge United and Crawley Town. A technically astute winger, he made three appearances for Palace’s first team after returning from Griffin Park in January.
Bad boy: Local lads Jason Puncheon and Zaha have had their moments, but now help the Palace for Life Foundation, which was launched with a view to helping young south Londoners by getting them involved in sport. The pair also mingled with fans in a local pub after Palace secured safety last season.
Boo boy: Jordon Mutch has contributed little to the Palace cause since signing for £4.75m in January 2015 and spent the second half of last season on loan at Reading. A central midfielder who rarely scores and isn’t much of an enforcer, no one seems sure what he brings to the party.
Destination Russia: The midfielder Luka Milivojevic was brought in last January to help Palace stay up and is part of the Serbia national side jockeying for top spot with the Republic of Ireland in their World Cup qualifying group.
Glass half-full: Palace underachieved woefully last season, winning only five league matches before February. With the talent at their disposal, Europa League qualification isn’t too outlandish a proposition.
Glass half-empty: Palace underachieved woefully last season, winning only five league matches before February. With a repeat performance, relegation isn’t too outlandish a proposition.
The manager:Despite his failure at Internazionale, who sacked him after only 85 days, De Boer still has credit in the bank from his successes at Ajax, whom he steered to four successive Eredivisie titles. His is a very progressive appointment and Palace fans are brimming with cautious optimism.
The owners: The public face of the consortium that saved Palace from administration in 2010, Steve Parish made his fortune in the world of business process outsourcing. Popular and media savvy, he can also be ruthless … as Tony Pulis found out in last year’s high court clash over the former Palace manager’s 2014 “survival” bonus.
Chris Waters’ fan’s view: Expect the unexpected. Last time we tried something as drastic as 3-4-3, under Alan Pardew, we came very unstuck. We have more trust in De Boer, though – and Zaha is at the top of his game. Prediction: 12th. Follow Chris @Clapham_Grand
Star man: With Gylfi Sigurdsson likely to be taking his deadly set pieces and Icelandic invention off to Everton, Swansea can ill afford to lose Fernando Llorente to Chelsea. The 32-year-old was one of two Spanish forwards who arrived at the Liberty Stadium last summer but unlike Borja Bastón, the £15.5m flop who has been banished to Málaga on loan, Llorente has proven to be a good fit in England. The Spanish Nat Lofthouse’s 15 goals were crucial in the successful fight against relegation.
Biggest summer buy: Roque Mesa sports a moustache that makes him look as if he’s gone to a fancy dress party as Gomez Addams, but there is a good reason for the £11m Spaniard’s wispy facial hair – the 28-year-old has told his wife that he won’t be shaving it off until he receives an international call-up. That’s up to Julen Lopetegui but the former Las Palmas midfielder could soon be reaching for the razor given that he had a 91.4% pass completion rate in La Liga last season.
Breakthrough season: Excitement over a young Chelsea striker fresh from a dazzling Championship loan? Sounds familiar. But while it’s important to keep in mind the Bamford Principle, Tammy Abraham looks ready for the Premier League. The 19-year-old scored 26 goals for Bristol City last season and impressed for England Under-21s in the summer.
Bad boy: The Swans are quite a mild-mannered bunch, although Jordan Ayew once got sent off for Aston Villa for a ludicrous elbow on West Ham’s Aaron Cresswell.
Boo boy: The position’s up for grabs now that Borja’s gone. Luciano Narsingh, a Dutch winger signed for £4m from PSV in January, is a possible contender for the role after a slow start to life in the Premier League.
Destination Russia: Federico Fernández made four appearances for Argentina at the last World Cup and the 28-year-old centre-back has been a consistent performer since joining Swansea in 2014.
Glass half-full: Mestachio will make everyone forget about the Gylfi gut-wrencher. Alfie Mawson’s the new JT. Llorente will keep banging them in off his bonce.
Glass half-empty: They won’t make any chances without Sigurdsson and only stayed up last time round because everyone else was so rubbish.
The manager: Despite having the demeanour of a hired goon in a daytime ITV drama, Paul Clement is a thoughtful tactician. From Ronaldo to Routledge, Carlo Ancelotti’s former assistant is regarded as an innovative coach by his players and he performed wonders to keep Swansea up after replacing Bob Bradley. If Clement proves himself over the course of a full season, he’ll probably be linked with the England job even if his surname looks suspiciously French.
The owners: The club’s American owners got there in the end last year but only after the disastrous appointment of Coach Bob. The jury’s out. Stability is required.
Kevin Elphick’s fan’s view: I’m not as pessimistic as this time last year. We’ve a much better management team but Sigurdsson’s delayed exit is frustrating as new signings depend on it. We’re still two or three players short. Prediction: 14th. Follow Kevin at swansea.vitalfootball.co.uk

Star man: If he is still at the Emirates when the transfer window closes, Alexis Sánchez will undoubtedly be Arsenal’s biggest player, not least considering the equally unsettled Mesut Özil’s occasional flakiness. The German is not the big-name bottler some would have you believe, but Sánchez is far more consistent.
Biggest summer buy: Bought from Lyon for £46m, the 26-year-old Alexandre Lacazette is the striker Arsenal fans have been crying out for as they called for Arsène Wenger to spend some money. No pressure, Alex.
Breakthrough season: Fast, strong and full of tricks, the 17-year-old midfielder Reiss Nelson has impressed in pre-season, prompting Wenger to say he is “very, very close” to making his competitive debut.
Bad boy: Granit Xhaka got his marching orders three times last season, with two dismissals coming while he was on Arsenal duty. A flurry of bookings after the last of those red cards led an exasperated Wenger to say the Switzerland midfielder was “a victim of his own reputation”.
Boo boy: Take your pick. Wenger will obviously be the subject of barracking as soon as things start to go wrong, while recent history suggests any or all of his players could be mercilessly booed if Gooners feel they’re not getting the requisite bang for all those bucks they spend on the most expensive seats in football.
Destination Russia: After playing at various age‑group levels for Germany, Sead Kolasinac switched his allegiance to Bosnia‑Herzegovina, the country of his parents’ birth. They’re reasonably well poised for a play-off place in Group H.
Glass half-full: Lacazette scores a hat-trick as Arsenal win their opening game of the Premier League season for only the second time in six seasons, prompting optimistic talk around the Emirates of how this could be “our year”.
Glass half-empty: Lacazette suffers a season-ending injury as Arsenal lose their opening game of the Premier League season for the fourth time in six seasons, prompting the scribbling of “Wenger out!” posters and inquiries about the price of chartering a plane to trail a banner over the Britannia Stadium a week later.
The manager: An occasionally spiky but fundamentally decent man who has forgotten more about football than most of his detractors will ever know, Wenger will almost certainly continue to divide opinion at the Emirates. No matter what altitude those planes hired by idiot fans reach, he invariably manages to rise above them.
The owners: The US billionaire Stan Kroenke owns a 67% stake in the club and became the subject of much recent outrage when the entertainment company from which he made his fortune launched a vile pay-per-view blood sports channel in the UK. It is the kind of big game trophy-hunting even Arsenal fans must abhor.
Bernard Azulay’s fan’s view: Until we discover the fate of our Chilean Duracell Bunny it’s hard to know what to expect. If Sánchez stays we’ll be feeling pretty positive; if not… Prediction: 3rd with him, 6th without.  Follow Bernard @GoonerN5
Star man: Christopher Schindler, the commanding, dependable, talented, likeable, respected – or to use the shorthand, German – centre-half. Schindler took the penalty that sealed promotion, despite having little experience from 12 yards. When asked by the chairman, Dean Hoyle, why he stepped forward, Schindler replied: “You paid a record fee for me, so I had a duty to pay you back.” Heroic.
Biggest summer buy:Steve Mounié, an £11m purchase from Montpellier, ticks all the Premier League boxes: he’s big, strong, fast and young. A presence through the middle or out on the flanks, the 22-year-old Benin forward’s adaptability should complement Huddersfield’s fluid style, while simultaneously adding a new dimension to it: he’s 6ft 3ins.
Breakthrough season: Kasey Palmer is one of the several thousand young players out on loan from Chelsea right now. But he could be one of the very best. A skilful attacking midfielder with an eye for goal, he scored on his debut on the opening day of last season’s Championship, notching the winner against Brentford within 60 seconds of coming off the bench. What price a similarly sensational introduction to the Premier League?
Bad boy: Mathias “Zanka” Jorgensen, an elegant ball‑playing centre-half brought in from Copenhagen, enjoys nothing more than latching on to an opposing forward and giving him a good old‑fashioned working over, both physically and verbally, sometimes operating at the very fringes of legality. Imagine Rio Ferdinand spliced with Diego Costa. What’s not to love?
Boo boy: There’s a feelgood factor around Kirklees, David Wagner having instilled a one-for-all mentality from top to bottom. So outright booing may come at a premium. Expect some concerned tongue-clacking, however, should Jonas Lossl fail to fill the popular Danny Ward’s goalkeeping gloves. Lossl quickly earned a reputation at Mainz for wobbly behaviour; given he was only following Lorius Karius, that doesn’t augur particularly well.
Destination Russia: Australia’s Aaron Mooy was Huddersfield’s player of the season last time round, the driving force behind many a move, and has subsequently turned his loan move from Manchester City permanent. Proving his worth in the Premier League – and thus proving City wrong in letting him go – will stand the former St Mirren midfielder in good stead for the Socceroos’ summer.
Glass half-full: The title-winning ways of the 1920s are probably beyond them but a repeat performance of their last return to the top flight – 15th place in 1970-71 – would do nicely.
Glass half-empty: Huddersfield go roaring up the table, 1920s style, whereupon Wagner is poached by Bayern Munich, Borussia Dortmund or Liverpool.
The manager: David Wagner is unlikely to escape comparisons to his friend, mentor and style guru Jürgen Klopp. Not least because his teams play with similarly attack-minded verve. Their breezy, easy-on-the-eye front-foot style usually provides entertainment one way or the other (Town managed to win promotion with a negative goal difference).
The owners: Dean Hoyle made his millions with greetings cards, though there have been no cheap platitudes in his dealings with Town fans. Hoyle stood by a long-standing promise to offer loyal supporters a Premier League season ticket for only £100, and cycled from Yorkshire to the play-off final at Wembley for charity.
Alex Taylor’s fan’s view: Little time was wasted between Schindler’s promotion-clinching spot-kick and a flurry of transfer activity. We’ve never been in better shape and, with Wagner at the helm, we can upset the odds again. Prediction: 16th. Follow Alex @AlexJT27
Star man: Tom Heaton. Burnley’s goalkeeper is the stand-out player in a team high on work ethic and low on stars. If Joe Hart continues struggling, Heaton could find himself in England’s starting lineup for Russia.
Biggest summer buy: Jack Cork. Back for his third stint at the Clarets following previous loan spells in 2010 and 2011, the 28-year-old midfielder ought to provide a calm presence in the heart of a midfield vacated by Joey Barton.
Breakthrough season: The Republic of Ireland centre-back Kevin Long has earmarked this as his chance to make an impact after putting injury problems behind him to start the final three games of last season. Following Michael Keane’s departure to Everton, Burnley are crying out for a good centre-back and Long should get a chance to step up.
Bad boy: The summer release of Barton has left an opening for the vacancy of Burnley bad boy. Andre Gray is the obvious candidate, although the striker insists he is a reformed character since his days spent running with gangs and posting unpleasant homophobic slurs on social media.
Boo boy: Steven Defour, an overpriced and apparently uninterested Belgian, arrived last summer for a club record fee and was already making noises about leaving Turf Moor as early as Christmas. The 29-year-old midfielder started only one of Burnley’s final 15 matches last season and will incur the wrath of fans proud of their team’s work ethic should he fail to pull his weight.
Destination Russia: Having played for Iceland at Euro 2016, Johann Berg Gudmundsson will be hoping his home country can make it to the World Cup next summer. Iceland are nicely poised: second in Group I on goal difference behind Croatia, two points ahead of Turkey and Ukraine.
Glass half-full: Burnley finished six points shy of a top-10 finish last season and could make the top half of the table if they can improve their dire away form. Beating Chelsea at Stamford Bridge in their opener would throw down a serious marker.
Glass half-empty: Relegation with a new manager in charge after Sean Dyche is lured away by a bigger club in relegation bother.
The manager: A cross between Sam Allardyce and Marco Silva with a sprinkling of Jürgen Klopp on top, Dyche is extremely likeable and very enlightened but prone to occasional withering pronouncements that suggest that, at heart, he is really an old school, dyed‑in-the-wool proper football man. Cross him at your peril.
The owners: A lifelong Clarets fan, Mike Garlick made his millions in global management consultancy. Patient and loyal, he is reasonably thrifty without being parsimonious and is happy to keep a low profile. As club chairmen go, they don’t get much better.
Tony Scholes’ fan’s view: There’s every reason for cautious optimism. We’ve added players who are going to bring us some real top‑level experience and our strength comes from unity. We are still looking for a replacement for Michael Keane, though. Prediction: 14th. Follow Tony @utcdotcom
Star man: Despite a series of injuries, Dwight Gayle scored 23 goals in 32 Championship appearances. If he is given more opportunities to impress in the top flight than he got at Crystal Palace, he could prove a revelation.
Biggest summer buy: Quick, capable of making things happen but with a tendency to drift in and out of games, the midfielder Jacob Murphy has bags of potential for which Newcastle have paid £12m. The 22-year-old is one of a set of twins and some at Norwich think his brother Josh might end up the better player.
Breakthrough season: A World Cup winner with England Under-20s this summer, Adam Armstrong has just been shipped out on loan to the Championship side Bolton Wanderers until January. Considering Newcastle’s paucity of proven Premier League striking talent, a prolific run with the Trotters could earn him a recall.
Bad boy: Jonjo Shelvey occasionally engages his mouth before his brain but he was pivotal in Newcastle’s promotion push. He was found guilty under an FA misconduct charge of racially abusing an opponent last season, a charge he continues to deny.
Boo boy: Having spent last season on loan at Sunderland from Atlético Madrid, Javier Manquillo is doubly tainted by his association with Newcastle’s hated rivals and their ignominious slide out of the Premier League. His manager’s fabled control-freakery could make or break him.
Destination Russia: A native of Seattle, DeAndre Yedlin made several appearances off the bench for the USA at Brazil 2014 and the defender is likely to be a starter for his country should they qualify for Russia. It hasn’t been plain sailing: the USA currently occupy the last automatic spot in the Concacaf qualifying group.
Glass half-full: The board give Rafael Benítez their full backing, secure some of his transfer targets and consolidate their Premier League status with a mid-table finish from which to launch a serious drive towards European qualification.
Glass half-empty: The board doesn’t give Benítez its full backing and he leaves. The ensuing outrage on Tyneside results in ugly scenes outside St James’ Park, the team go into a tailspin and return to the Championship.
The manager: He got Newcastle back to the Premier League as champions at the first time of asking but Benítez is the bookies’ favourite to be first manager to leave his post this season. The Spaniard is understood to be seething at Newcastle’s unwillingness to secure several of his transfer targets.
The owners: Mike Ashley has had an eventful off‑season. Details of an “unconventional” working life incorporating one particularly extreme drinking competition emerged in a court case alleging that the Sports Direct owner reneged on a £15m deal with a banker. Ashley won both the drinking contest and the lawsuit.
Richard & David Holmes’ fan’s view: As long as the spectre of Ashley hangs over NUFC it’s foolish to get too optimistic. But the Rafa effect should carry us through, just. Our midfield lacks steel and leadership, though. Prediction: 10th.
Star man: Anthony Knockaert. The French winger tore defences apart last season, the key creative force in a brilliant promotion campaign. There does remain a strong whiff of “too good for the Championship, maybe not good enough for the Premier League” about him, though – will he be able to dispel that?

Biggest summer buy: Transfer powder has been kept relatively dry by a club who preach sensible progression and growth, but an upgrade between the sticks was required and secured, with the Australian Matthew Ryan recruited from Valencia. Distribution is among his key attributes, making him super‑trendy in the modern goalkeeping world.
Breakthrough season: Solly March is not new to Brighton fans but perhaps is to the wider world. March is a whippet of a winger whose career was almost derailed by a horrible knee injury in 2015. He returned fighting fit last season and could make his name this term.
Bad boy: The defender Lewis Dunk isn’t shy of a yellow card, but the player who committed the most fouls in the Championship last season was Glenn Murray, a resolutely old-school striker who enjoys a dig here and there. Defenders facing him should keep an eye out for low-flying elbows.
Boo boy: The Brighton fans’ relationship with their players is so adorably close that booing anyone for poor performance seems unlikely. It would be like someone booing their cat. But let’s go with the first player to demand a transfer if they’re struggling in January. Erm … Knockaert?
Destination Russia: Relatively slim pickings. Ryan should be there for Australia, Tomer Hemed and Beram Kayal have an outside chance of making it for Israel, but Jiri Skalak’s Czech Republic have plenty of work to do. Next summer could be a quiet one for Brighton.
Glass half-full: Knockaert lights up the Premier League, nice guy Chris Hughton wins games with his pure affability, everyone says: “What a lovely stadium they have,” and they’re comfortably safe by March.
Glass half-empty: The frailties that saw them chuck away the Championship title emerge, the relative lack of spending bites them hard, Hughton smiles through a long series of defeats and nice guys really do finish last.
The manager: A fan of old-fashioned tactics, a history of left-leaning politics and a reputation as Mr Affable: Chris Hughton isn’t quite the Jeremy Corbyn of the Premier League, but he’s not a million miles away. A pleasant demeanour and fondness for 4-4-2 will only get you so far, but he’s got rather more than that and might surprise a few people. Like Corbyn, perhaps.
The owners: Part of the heartwarming nature of Brighton’s promotion is that Tony Bloom, owner and benefactor, has been a fan of the club since he was in short trousers. You can often find Bloom, a property investor and professional gambler, not in the directors’ box but with the fans, in the away end.
Steph Fincham’s fan’s view:We’re well-prepared after years spent planning for this. The squad has talent: Knockaert, Stephens and March, plus experienced heads like Murray. Prediction: 10th.
Star man: For the sixth successive season the same player stands out as Watford’s most important: Troy Deeney, the club’s heartbeat, spokesman, inspiration and actually quite technically accomplished striker, though Marco Silva has been markedly noncommittal about his chances of retaining the captaincy or even remaining at the club.
Biggest summer buy: Abel Braga, the Fluminense coach, described the £13m Brazilian forward Richarlison as “a boy who delights” and “has everything to be one of Fluminense’s big names”, though Richarlison angered the club by responding to a bid from Palmeiras in June by asking to be excused from a match against them because he was feeling a bit distracted. He later insisted: “I am not a mercenary,” before turning down Ajax and jumping upon the first flight to Hertfordshire.
Breakthrough season: Nathaniel Chalobah has made only 32 league appearances since the end of his loan spell at Watford in 2012‑13, but with an important admirer in the shape of Gareth Southgate just waiting for an excuse to give him an England cap and the possibility of a fine midfield partnership at Vicarage Road with the dynamic Frenchman Abdoulaye Doucouré, this could and should be the year he steps out of the shadows after leaving Chelsea.
Bad boy: No player in all four divisions was booked more last season than José Holebas, who picked up 14 cautions at the rate of one every 2.4 games. This achievement makes him the least ruly of an astonishingly unruly bunch: the list of the Premier League’s least disciplined players had Holebas, held back by a lack of red cards, at No2, team-mates Sebastian Prodl at No3 and Miguel Britos joint fourth.
Boo boy: Étienne Capoue scored seven goals from midfield last season and is probably the most technically gifted player at the club, but his attitude and application are so questionable so often that he is unpopular all the same. Reports of a pre-season training‑ground row with Silva suggest the new manager might have already figured this out for himself.
Destination Russia: Isaac Success started only two league games in an injury-affected first season in England, leading to reports in his homeland that “some people who are not happy with his progress are chasing him with evil witches”, but he still made his full debut for Nigeria, after which he reassured the nation’s fans that “success is guaranteed because now they have Success in the team”.
Glass half-full: So low did Walter Mazzarri’s stock fall by the end of last season that Watford could have Noddy and Big Ears in the dugout and fans would be cheerful about it.
Glass half-empty: One of their strikers might be being chased by evil witches.
The manager: Marco Silva vaulted from relative obscurity – Paul Merson will surely never live down his “What is this geezer?” reaction to his appointment by Hull in January – to enormous popularity by transforming a side apparently sure to go down into one for whom relegation was, at one stage, merely very likely. He is a fan of dark jackets, white shirts, unbuttoned collars and 4-2-3-1.
The owners: The Pozzo family has kept the club in the top flight despite regular changes in the dugout and on the team sheet and without overspending on transfers, though more recently they have also signed and loaned out a puzzling amount of young South Americans with no imminent chance of getting a work permit (including, earlier this summer, the promisingly-named 19-year-old Colombian striker Luis Suárez).
Matt Rowson’s fan’s view: I’m more optimistic than our nosedive at the end of last season ought to warrant. Silva unified Hull and we could do with a bit of that. We’re one of several sides that could struggle if the wind blows the wrong way but that happened last season and we stayed up anyway. Prediction: 14th. Follow Matt @mattrowson
Star man: Injuries restricted Xherdan Shaqiri to 21 league starts last season but according to Mark Hughes the 25-year-old has looked “excellent, enthused, really energetic and dynamic in everything he does” during pre-season, and has often been given licence to shine in a free role.
Biggest summer buy: As we go to print Stoke’s chequebook remains very much on ice, or wherever it is that chequebooks spend their free time, with the on-loan Kurt Zouma and scot-free Darren Fletcher the big-name arrivals of the summer so far. “The type of players we want are some of the best players in the world,” says the chief executive, Tony Scholes. “OK, not the very, very best but the next level and these players can be difficult to recruit.” He may end up having to make do with the level after that.
Breakthrough season: The 18-year-old left-back Josh Tymon made four league appearances for Hull City last season before switching to Stoke at the end of his scholarship contract, and has been ushered straight into the first-team squad, though he will initially play understudy to Erik Pieters. “He’s a good young player with good ability and a good attitude and he’s got good experience,” said Mark Hughes, who could really do with a thesaurus.
Bad boy: Joe Allen’s 10 bookings made him Stoke’s worst offender behind the departed Marko Arnautovic, and then he ended the season by earning another suspension after picking up a second yellow card of Wales’s World Cup qualifying campaign, something he then blasted as “a crap rule”. “Serbia away tends to be the type of game that I do end up getting booked in,” he said on that occasion. A look through his record makes it hard to identify the type of game that he does end up getting booked in: last season there were six at home, four away; bookings against Chelsea and both Manchesters, but also against Hull, Bournemouth and West Ham. He’s more of an equal opportunities bookee really.
Boo boy: Saido Berahino’s 13 games after joining from West Bromwich Albion in January featured 13 shots but no goals – he now has one of those in his last 41 league appearances – and some disgruntled fans. He has, Hughes reports, “come back in great shape and looks really, really hungry to have a good season this year”, but may find patience thin.
Destination Russia: Ramadan Sobhi could get a chance to shine this season after Arnautovic’s departure – though Hughes believes he is “not where he needs to be” quite yet – and his Egypt side are primed for their first World Cup appearance since 1990. He had an eventful summer, in which he got married and, less happily, was tricked by an Egyptian television show into believing that the car he was in was sinking into quicksand and being attacked by a giant man-eating lizard, prompting genuine terror which was followed – once the hoax had been revealed – by absolute fury.
Glass half-full: After nine successive mid-table finishes it’s becoming hard to see them ending up anywhere else. Plus Joselu appears to have discovered his shooting boots while on loan in Spain last season.
Glass half-empty:Marko Arnautovic’s brother and agent responded to accusations of disloyalty by suggesting Stoke “should clean up their own garbage within the club walls … what I mean is up to the club to reveal”. The club have yet to come clean but it all sounds terribly troubling.
The manager: Six defeats, two wins and two draws in their final 10 games of last season – and a great deal of dull football – had many fans grumbling about Mark Hughes but the Welshman remains in post. He has experimented with formations in pre-season, with a 3-4-2-1 particularly favoured. “We’ll use it at some point this season,” he said.
The owners: According to the Sunday Times, the Coates family fortune has increased by some £1.2bn over the past year, which you would think might result in their beloved club welcoming more than 33-year-old Fletcher on a free transfer, but there you go.
Rob Holloway’s fan’s view: I was dreading this season but I’ve found some new optimism lately. Losing the likes of Arnautovic, Walters and Whelan will have an impact, but we are at our best when written off. Zouma could be the signing of the season. Prediction: 13th.
Guardian writers’ predicted position 10th (NB: this is not necessarily Jacob Steinberg’s prediction but the average of our writers’ tips)
Last season’s position 11th
Odds to win the league (via Oddschecker) 350-1
Though there was nothing straightforward about West Ham United’s move to the London Stadium, they could be forgiven for thinking everything was possible once the process was finally over. But it was only stage one of their journey. They had visions of where they wanted to end up, of upsetting the hierarchy of power in London and ultimately challenging Europe’s elite, but what came next was the hard part. Stage two is where West Ham got stuck, as though they had the map upside down, and after a year in their new home the hallowed next level feels no closer than when Upton Park was home.
Their lap of honour after their final home match last season – a 4-0 defeat by Liverpool that followed a similar pattern to the majority of their experiences against the top sides– took place in front of rows of empty seats. If anything, while the strongest teams got even better, West Ham went backwards. Unable to push on, they find themselves playing a game of catch-up in which those leading the race always seem to be moving further into the distance. That complicates their plans. There is a disconnect between knowing what they want to achieve and working out how to attain it.
In attempting to shatter the glass ceiling, it was hammered home to them that simply moving to a different east London postcode was not enough on its own. When they tried to gain access to the most exclusive spots, they were told their name wasn’t on the list. Nobody who mattered cared about their new stadium. Not yet.
Last summer’s recruitment was a disaster. From the eight players signed for the first team, Álvaro Arbeloa, Jonathan Calleri, Ashley Fletcher, Havard Nordtveit and Simone Zaza have left. Far from challenging for European football, West Ham spent the campaign dogged by relegation concerns and the club decided against offering Slaven Bilic a new contract this summer. The manager has a year left on his current deal and there are doubts over his tactical acumen.
The hope for West Ham is their recent tribulations could work in their favour by relieving some of the pressure caused by the move. Tension reigned at the London Stadium last term, raising anxiety on and off the pitch, and it always did concern Bilic when he heard people talking about the Champions League during pre-season. “We want to go there but first we have to put solid cornerstones and build on it,” he said when West Ham were struggling in April. “The expectations were big. New stadium, new training ground, possible new signings. People are always positive and optimistic. But what I didn’t like was the talk of the Champions League.”
A more realistic outlook has led to a shift in West Ham’s focus in the transfer market. Last summer they looked to the continent in an attempt to find canny cheap bargains but lumbered themselves with duds. They targeted a top striker but ended up cancelling Zaza’s loan after half a season.
This time they have been more clinical, looking to establish themselves in the top half by signing proven Premier League produce. They began the window by signing Pablo Zabaleta on a free, returned to Manchester City to bring Joe Hart in on loan and enhanced their attacking options by spending a combined £40m on Marko Arnautovic and Javier Hernández. They have also signed the 18-year-old Montenegrin Sead Haksabanovic from the Swedish side Halmstad for £3m.
“We had a policy up to now to buy players for tomorrow, not today,” David Sullivan, West Ham’s co-owner, said last month. “Long term it’s not a great strategy but short term it is. Hopefully we’ll buy one or two more players, investments in the future, while at the same time doing what’s best for the club.”
The benefits of that approach are clear. West Ham know what they are getting. All being well, they do not have to brace themselves for any nasty surprises. Despite an indifferent couple of years, Hart is an excellent goalkeeper who has the motivation of protecting his status as England’s No1 before the World Cup. Few right-backs have been as dependable as Zabaleta in the past few years and the Argentinian should raise standards in a squad crying out for more personality. The strutting Arnautovic, West Ham’s record signing, has offered glimpses his of swagger in pre-season. So elusive in the penalty box, Hernández scored 59 goals in 157 games for Manchester United.
In today’s inflated market, it is hard to argue with £24m for Arnautovic and £16m for Hernández. If their end-product lives up to expectations, West Ham will have an excellent chance of a smoother season.
The downside, however, is that it is not easy to detect a plan at West Ham. Clubs at their level are forced to compromise just to keep pace with the competition but the profiles of their signings are worth questioning. It is not only that Zabaleta is 32, it is that West Ham signed the 33-year-old José Fonte and the 29-year-old Robert Snodgrass for a combined £18m in January. Their short-termism is understandable for now but they will continue to lag behind if it strays into long-term policy.
Another concern is that West Ham have yet to solve the lack of pace identified by Bilic at the end of last season. It would be wrong to assume that Bilic’s desire for superior athleticism was down to the size of the pitch at the London Stadium – which is 5m longer but no wider than Upton Park’s – but everything to do with his team’s lethargic play. Looking back to the start of his tenure, it is notable that West Ham counterattacked effectively in wins at Arsenal, Liverpool and City, with Diafra Sakho, strong and fast, outstanding as a lone striker. With Hernández up front, it is unlikely there will be a repeat of West Ham waiting until late November for a striker to score a goal. Nonetheless it will be intriguing to see whether the former Bayer Leverkusen forward’s physique will allow him to act as a focal point in the Premier League.
That said, West Ham could have one of the more watchable attacks in the division. Michail Antonio is powerful and versatile, Arnautovic is capable of moments of magic and Manuel Lanzini fills the creative void left by Dimitri Payet’s ignominious return to Marseille, while André Ayew has a nose for goal despite meagre contributions in general play.
The disappointing Snodgrass and Sofiane Feghouli could move on before the window shuts, though, and West Ham need more cover for Hernández. Enner Valencia has returned to Mexico, Andy Carroll and Sakho both struggle to stay fit and that leaves Toni Martínez, a raw Spaniard who spent the second half of last season on loan at Oxford United.
There should be funds available for further improvements. West Ham have managed to shift deadwood from their squad, selling Darren Randolph and Fletcher to Middlesbrough and Nordtveit to Hoffenheim, and it feels as though their business should not be done yet. The makings of a good team are there but they need more drive and nous in central midfield. Cheikhou Kouyaté, Mark Noble and Pedro Obiang are all decent players, while Edimilson Fernandes is promising, but West Ham were often overrun and outplayed in the middle.
That placed strain on one of the most disorganised defences in the league. Hart could be busy. Despite finishing 11th, West Ham conceded 64 goals. They shipped two goals or more in half their league games.
Angelo Ogbonna and Winston Reid are fine centre-halves, even if the latter’s standards have dipped recently, and while Fonte has been underwhelming, James Collins is a solid alternative in times of need despite his advancing years. On the left, Aaron Cresswell may struggle to keep the improving Arthur Masuaku out of the team. Yet West Ham’s defensive record does Bilic few favours. His farcical attempt to turn Antonio into a right-back raised serious questions about his judgment, and unbalanced the team. If Zabaleta’s age catches up with him, Bilic will be forced to turn to Sam Byram, who is yet to gain his trust.
Despite his popularity, Bilic has divided opinion. There were times last season when West Ham barely functioned, when they looked devoid of any tactical plan, a team without a way of playing. On the other hand, his team have often shown defiance in difficult moments, recovering from poor starts or bouncing back after winless runs, and Bilic has occasionally come up with tactical surprises such as switching systems from 4-2-3-1 to a 3-4-3.
He caught out Mauricio Pochettino’s Tottenham Hotspur in May, on a raucous night that gave West Ham a tantalising glimpse of better times at the London Stadium. Their first season in E20 was fraught with difficulties, from the running track surrounding the pitch to early crowd disorder, and one player privately said the experience of playing there was “terrible”.
Perhaps everything will settle down this term. Yet a reminder of the price of West Ham’s status as tenants in a multi-purpose, converted athletics stadium is that the time required to make it suitable for football once the World Athletics Championships finish on Sunday means they will not play there until 11 September. It remains a house rather than a home, another adjustment for a club striving for a new identity, still trying to find its way.
Baseball has a problem. Apparently it is no longer interesting to young people. More specifically, it appeals more to those beyond a serviceable demographic deemed exciting to advertisers. According to data complied by three media organizations the average age of those who watch baseball games is 57 and that number is rapidly moving into early-bird buffet territory. The same study showed only 7% of those watching baseball are under 18.
This is undoubtedly why Major League Baseball soon will dress their teams for three games in jerseys that look like soccer tops with each player’s nickname on the back. In a reach to come off as young, baseball has gone the route of Brazilian football or every color-coordinated Sunday softball team with a portable beer cooler. It may also lead to some awkward pairings on the field say with Yankees third baseman Todd ‘Toddfather’ Frazier and teammate Aaron ‘All Rise’ Judge.
Somehow it’s hard to imagine Pirates star Andrew McCutchen any less cool running down a liner in the gap than his alter ego ‘Cutch.’
When I first read about baseball’s nickname jerseys – officially called Players Weekend, all I could think about was a football running back from the early 2000s named Rod Smart.
Back in 2001, pro wrestling czar Vince McMahon and NBC executive Dick Ebersol bet the NFL was growing stale to younger fans. They created the XFL, a league that would celebrate all the violence of the NFL while eliminating fussy restrictions that banned touchdown dances and governed the height of a player’s socks. Among the many things the XFL did to be the fun antidote to the NFL was to encourage players to put nicknames on the back of their jerseys. This is where Smart came in.
At the time he was an unknown running back from Western Kentucky with a career going nowhere. But when he joined the XFL’s Las Vegas Outlaws he told a team equipment man he wished to not wear ‘Smart’ on the back of his jersey but instead the words ‘He Hate Me.’
I ran into Smart before the league’s first game. He was coming out of the Las Vegas locker room and when he turned his back slightly to move past a teammate I could clearly see the words ‘He Hate Me’ on his back. As one of the league’s other rules was to allow all access to journalists before games, I followed him down the sideline and asked him about the name.
“That’s because when I run past the other guy, he hate me,” Smart said. Then he laughed.
Smart turned out to be a genius. After the XFL’s first game He Hate Me was the thing everyone wanted to talk about. People were shocked. Football players didn’t do such things. In a league that was quickly forgettable, He Hate Me became an enduring footnote. Back in 2004 his agent Steve Forest told me the nickname helped Smart to be seen by NFL executives, eventually getting him to the Philadelphia Eagles, Carolina Panthers and Oakland Raiders in a brief NFL career he otherwise wouldn’t have expected.
“Those scouts and general mangers have so many players to remember it’s easy to lose one,” Forest said. “But when someone says ‘Rod Smart’ and someone goes ‘Who’s that?’ and someone else says ‘You know, He Hate Me,’ well, everyone remembers that.”
Here’s the thing, though, He Hate Me was never meant to be transformative. When I talked to him in 2004 Smart said he intended to have a different nickname on the back of his jersey each week, changing his mind only after He Hate Me caught on right away. The name was a disposable joke, meant to be cast away, much like the XFL became a joke, folding several months and many empty stadiums later. And while the NFL did adopt a few of the XFL’s more interesting ventures like the overhead camera, the XFL was neither appealing to younger viewers nor cooler than the existing league.
The same is true with baseball. It might not be the American giant it was two generations past, but it still draws millions of fans to its ballparks and remains hugely popular in places like Japan, Korea and much of the Caribbean. Baseball’s biggest problem is that its games take too long, burdened by endless pitching changes, batters taking too many pitches, constant coach visits to the mound and replay reviews that drag on and on. Last month, a game was delayed for 18 minutes while umpires tried to sort out a bungled double switch.
Baseball’s issues are structural and therefore not easy to confront. A cosmetic fix by having the players wear shirts that look like soccer jerseys with nicknames like ‘Mr Smile’ or ‘Dave Human’ won’t move those people under 18 who aren’t watching baseball. If baseball wants to be fixed it needs to do something about the three-and-a-half hour drag where almost nothing happens.
Leave the nicknames to Dodgers shortstop Corey Seager.
The name he will wear on the back of his jersey during nickname weekend?
‘Seager.’
John Jones III was born in Oakland to members of the Black Panthers at a time of division and strife in America. But he remembers the Raiders’ glory days in the NFL with fondness. “I grew up in church, which is segregated. [But being a Raiders fan] was transformative and beautiful in a way that stays with me. It was, and still is, a time of racial disparity and a lot of institutions are set up to divide people. But never the Raiders ... I’ve never been a part of another entity that was as inclusive. Didn’t matter your age, economic status, or race. For three glorious hours, we’re family.”
Now that family – my grandfather liked to say his beloved, gritty Raiders represented the people of Oakland – is about to break apart.
Earlier this year, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell announced the Raiders would leave Oakland for their new home in Las Vegas (it will be the second time they have left the city: they relocated to Los Angeles from 1982 to 1994). The league owners voted 31-1 in favor of the move, with only the Miami Dolphins’ owner, Stephen Ross, ruling against it because, he said, the league “owed it to the fans to do everything we can to stay in the communities that have supported us”.
The Raiders’ owner, Mark Davis, had tried to replace the 51-year old Oakland Coliseum for years. The league gave him $100m to do so but estimates for a new home ballooned to $1bn. By now, the league was accustomed to public subsidies to cover costs. But with Oakland struggling to pay for basic services, funding a stadium that would host eight regular season games a year was, to put it mildly, imprudent.
So Las Vegas flashed the cash. Nevada county officials promised the NFL $750m from a public bond approved by the voters in 2016. Even though those funds were first earmarked for jobs and schools, and community groups oppose their use for football, big-money interests always win out.
Despite the bad blood between residents and the NFL, though, most in the city wanted the Raiders to stay. The reason is found in the rebel aura the team is known for around the world. It’s a tangible quality the league has profited off for decades but one that originates directly from Oaklanders.
The Raiders were not born rebels. Although they were an American Football Conference charter team in 1960, they had a low profile and their first home was San Francisco. But in 1963, the team’s fortunes changed when they moved to Oakland and the Los Angeles Chargers’ assistant Al Davis became the coach.
Davis gets and deserves a lot of credit for what happened next. He developed the team’s exciting attacking “vertical” offensive scheme and changed the uniforms to a stark, intimidating silver and black that matched the no-nonsense grittiness of the game. Just as important, his intense personality – he was once described as “the NFL’s middle finger” – matched the city’s in-your-face attitude.
Davis was lucky to ply his trade in Oakland. His arrogance would have seen him run out of town in conservative outposts such as Kansas City and Green Bay. But in the Oakland of the 60s and 70s, counterculture was king. Berkeley students led a revolution exploring drugs, sex and anti-war politics. African Americans established the Black Panther Party there, Hell’s Angels bikers roamed streets, and rockers encouraged people to fight the system.
Raiders players were inspired by the social changes around them. Some supported the Panthers at political rallies while others drank with fans at local bars. And quarterback Ken Stabler’s flowing hippie-long hair and itinerant boozing epitomized the devil-may-care ideology. When the Raiders started winning – they claimed two Super Bowls in 1976 and 1980 – the team and city together cemented a reputation as a haven for rebellion.
Jones says the team’s hiring of the modern-era NFL’s first Hispanic and African American head coaches, as well as the first woman executive, are key examples of the team’s willingness to reflect the city’s diversity. He also says the Raiders helped give its citizens an identity.
Today, Jones is an intervention specialist who talks to young crime victims. He “interrupts retaliatory violence” at hospital bedsides and “assists them with programs to reintegrate them into a productive life”. He worries the Raiders’ move will lead these kids to lose a feeling of representation.
“[Kids] can only dare to dream as much as they experience and witness. Losing the team means losing a north star. The team represented camaraderie, community, and teamwork. And having a viable place to express their feelings. When you’re watching sports and you’re with friends – that’s positive productive [expression of] energy that won’t be there now.”
Losing the Raiders, Jones says, is also an example of how Oakland is losing the battle against gentrification. Keeping alive cultural and ethnic diversity as rich outsiders move in droves is not easy. With wealthy tech companies raising the costs of living, and San Francisco lacking space for infrastructure, Oakland is bearing the social brunt of new development.
I felt like I had the city on my back. I could not give a half-hearted effort
Artists all over the city, he points out, are getting kicked out to make way for high-end condos while politicians cater to techies. Oakland may have made a good decision refusing to give public money to a stadium, he says, but when the city approves the building and sale of 2,800 housing units at the highest market rates in the world while only 40 are made for affordable housing, what then? Jones says it means Oakland is also losing what it’s known for: its culture.
Kirk Morrison is torn about Las Vegas with good reason. An Oakland boy who grew up to play for the Raiders, he understands how ruthless football can be.
“People are upset about the move but I can see the owner’s part of it too. They’ve been trying to get a new place to play for years. I’ve felt like I’m numb to the fact owners have to do what they have to. If I’d never played, I wouldn’t know. But it’s a business. If you think about it as investment, they’re going to a stadium where have almost nothing to pay.”
Despite his rationality, Morrison feels the hurt fans are experiencing because his career was deeply affected by the Raiders. After playing college at San Diego State, Morrison was drafted by Oakland in 2005. As a hometown player, he says fans pushed him to be the best.
“I felt like I had the city on my back. I could not give a half-hearted effort because they’d see that and I wanted to give them everything I could. I wanted them to say ‘Man, he plays hard, like the mentality of the city, hard-nosed, not getting enough credit, unified in what they do, and a joy to be around.’ I tried to take on that mentality when I played.”
As he became a veteran and his profile grew, posting team-high tackles in 2007, Morrison says he came to realize how much Oaklanders followed his career with pride and affection. “[Their attention] gave me a sense of purpose. I never felt like I could neglect or overlook people who I represent.”
The loyalty of Raider fans is well known, and Morrison remembers a year when he saw fans buying jerseys while the team was struggling. That’s why, despite being diplomatic about a move the league endorsed, he says the Raiders belong in Oakland.
“They should always be in Oakland because I know what they mean to the city and fans.”
In the five months since the vote, the mood in the city has been complex.
The team announced it would honor the contract it previously signed with the city to play two more years in Oakland before moving. That puts fans in an odd situation where they are both jilted and needed, like a couple that decided to live together after breaking up. Then, 2,000 season-ticket holders were upset enough to give up their buying rights. But they were quickly snapped up by people who were on a waiting list alongside 20,000 fans.
A group of fans hired lawyers to “seek justice” against the Vegas vote. People have interpreted the move to mean the league and Marc Davis will be sued on behalf of the city for the right to keep the Raiders’ insignia, colors, and team records. At some point, the thinking goes, the NFL will give Oakland an expansion team that’ll magically repopulate as the Raiders of old (there is precedent, the Browns won back their history when they returned to the NFL as an expansion team).
The current players were caught between trying to be good employees and good public servants. Quarterback Derek Carr was criticized for saying Oakland fans who didn’t follow the team to Las Vegas weren’t “real fans”. He later apologized.
My grandfather Anastasio came to the US from central Mexico as part of a rental workers program to build railways. He settled in Oakland, worked hard, raised a family, and enjoyed fleeting enjoyment every Sunday by watching Raiders games. If he was around today, he’d be clear on one thing. Despite his love for the Raiders, he’d tell Roger Goodell and Marc Davis exactly where they could put their luxurious school-bond-killing stadium – far away from the city that became his home. The city that gave a team from the most corporate sports league in the world authenticity and life.
Jos Buttler has agreed a contract understood to be worth £200,000 to play in the Bangladesh Premier League in November – a move that will hinge on whether England give permission on security grounds or select him as their reserve wicketkeeper for the Ashes.
Buttler, who has agreed to join Comilla Victorians, impressed when captaining England on the one-day leg of their Bangladesh tour last winter in the absence of Eoin Morgan and is one of a number of the white-ball squad to have been approached by the Twenty20 competition.
Organisers for the BPL, the fifth season of which begins on 2 November, have been forced to increase the value of their contracts this year – and offer players money up front – to trump those available in the new South African Global T20 League that starts only two days later.
Signing a leading international such as Buttler before the South African league’s draft on 26 August is a coup for the BPL and he will be joined in the tournament by his England team-mate David Willey, who has similarly agreed a deal in principle with the Rangpur Riders.
That Rangpur’s coach is Tom Moody – also in charge at the Indian Premier League side Sunrisers Hyderabad – is understood to be as relevant to Willey choosing Bangladesh over South Africa as the money on offer. His fellow Yorkshire and England seamer Liam Plunkett is also mulling an offer from a BPL franchise.
Other members of England’s one-day side will head in a different direction, with the captain, Morgan, and Jason Roy already signed up as marquee players for the South African league. Alex Hales and Mark Wood have also put their names forward for this draft, despite both being hopeful of involvement in the Ashes tour that gets under way from the start of November.
Buttler is similarly still keen to stay in the Test frame and was the reserve wicketkeeper behind Jonny Bairstow last winter, playing the final three matches of the 4-0 defeat to India as a specialist batsman at No7. But he has not kept wicket during his fleeting first-class appearances for Lancashire this summer, while Surrey’s Ben Foakes has trained with the England team.
Selection for Foakes, who England view as the best gloveman in the country, would allow Buttler to fulfil his contract in Bangladesh, while a deal in the Big Bash League, which takes place either side of Christmas before England’s one-day series in Australia in January, is also expected.
With a £400,000 contract at the IPL champions Mumbai Indians already agreed, the 26-year-old’s career may yet turn to full white-ball specialism before long.
Whether England release their players for domestic cricket in Bangladesh will once again depend on the security situation. Last year the Professional Cricketers’ Association advised its members against taking part in the BPL on the basis that it would not have the same level of protection as for an international tour.
Liam Dawson, Samit Patel and Riki Wessels were among a number of county players to travel anyway as the tournament, like the England tour that preceded it, passed without incident.
Buttler, Willey and Plunkett are centrally contracted white-ball cricketers and would need approval from Andrew Strauss, the director of England cricket, as well as their counties.
After all the hype and hoopla, the new 200m champions of the world is – drumroll please – Ramil Guliyev. He is a 27-year-old Azerbaijani now running for Turkey, whose outstanding achievement in the sport until this point was his silver medal at the European championships last year.
This, you guess, wasn’t necessarily the result the IAAF would have chosen if it had its pick. That would have been Wayde van Niekerk, the sport’s brightest new superstar, who was second, two-hundredths of a second back. Which means Michael Johnson is still the only man to do the 200m/400m double at the world championships. All things considered, the most conspicuous competitor in this race may just have been the one who wasn’t in it: Usain Bolt.
Just to hammer home the point, Guliyev won in a time of 20.09sec, which made this the slowest 200m final since 2003, when John Capel won in 20.30sec. That was also the last final until this one in which Bolt wasn’t competing. Seems this is what the comedown feels like.
The result will go down well in Turkey at least. It was their first gold medal at the world championships. Guliyev has been a Turkish citizen for all of five years now. He came up through the Azerbaijani system, though he was coached by his father, but decided to switch nationalities in 2011. This was because, as he explained at the time, “there’s not much enthusiasm for athletics in Azerbaijan and there’s no good facilities.” He had already established himself as one of the best young sprinters in Europe when he won the 200m at the World University Games in 20.04sec.
The appeal of Turkey, Guliyev said, was that “I have had perfect conditions for training” and – no doubt this was a secondary consideration next to weather – “I was given considerable financial support.” His monthly wage in Turkey, he explained, was equal to his annual salary in Azerbaijan. Qatar had also bid for him, but he preferred Turkey because “I do not feel any difference between Azerbaijan and Turkey, the language and culture are the same in both countries”.
The Azerbaijanis didn’t seem to quite agree with Guliyev’s assessment. They insisted that the International Association of Athletics Federations make Guliyev serve all of his two-year waiting period before he was allowed to compete in Turkey.
At the same time they tried to lure Guliyev back to Azerbaijan. The Azerbaijan athletics federation vice-president Mehdi Nagiyev even made the tempting suggestion that “if he wants to show his patriotism, let him come back and serve in the armed forces”. Guliyev preferred to stay in the job the Turks had arranged for him as a student teacher at Dumlupinar University. There would have been more sympathy for Azerbaijan’s predicament if they hadn’t turned up to the 2009 European Junior Championships with a six-strong team made up of Guliyev and five others who had just moved over from Ethiopia on a fast-track citizenship programme.
In his wake on Thursday night came Van Niekerk, who was first round the bend, but he seemed to be too drained from the 400m to find the strength to hold his lead to the line. Van Niekerk’s coach, Ans Botha, had always been wary of letting him run in both the 200m and 400m until she felt he was strong enough to take it on. He may have a way to go before he is ready yet, though he seemed delighted with his silver medal. “I think this is just the beginning of what I’m capable of in my career,” Van Niekerk said. Behind him came Jereem Richards, from Trinidad and Tobago. Isaac Makwala, the fastest man in the world this year, was back in sixth. But then Makwala has had a very long week.
He ran the 400m heats on Saturday morning, the semi-finals on Sunday evening. Then he spent that night sick, vomiting, was pulled out of Monday’s 200m heats on medical advice and forced to withdraw from the 400m final the following day. He came to the stadium anyway and was turned away by the IAAF, then he was reinstated into the 200m and made to run a heat in the pouring rain on his own on Wednesday night, chased that down with a semi-final two hours later and, finally, got to run in the final on Thursday night. He cannot have been in the best shape for the final. He finished in 20.44sec.
One good thing came out of all this for Makwala – he has suddenly become very popular indeed with the crowd here. The roar he got when he came out on to the track was every bit as loud as the one Van Niekerk received. The British did not seem to appreciate the way he was treated by the IAAF, and admired the spirit he showed on Wednesday night when he ploughed through the rain on his own in 20.20sec to make it through to the semis. That scandal will recede, then, but this being athletics, another one will come along soon enough. No doubt there is a right-wing paper somewhere in Istanbul that is just about to launch a campaign against plastic Turks.
We start this morning with Tottenham Hotspur, who are poised break the bank with an £Infinity sextuple-swoop for Bill Brewer, Jan Stewer, Peter Gurney, Peter Davey, Dan’l Whiddon and Harry Hawke. Not really. But Daniel Levy is going to get a really moderate pat on the head from Joe Lewis, which is basically like winning a trophy.
He will then set about resolving his club’s nascent wage-crisis. It seem like Danny Rose will be forced to leave after accidentally behaving in such a way as to make his position untenable. His appalling audacity in speaking honestly looks likely to be punished by a move to Manchester United, where he will earn more money and be more likely to win trophies; it is possible that Luke Shaw will move in the other direction, though such a manoeuvre is fraught with difficulty.
Down the East Lancs Road, Liverpool are looking at Luan, the Grêmio forward imaginatively dubbed the “new Ronaldinho”. He is in the final year of his contract and has, apparently, been “talking with several European clubs”, one of them thought to be Spartak Moscow. Should he decide that Anfield is not for him, Jürgen Klopp will surely turn his attention to Robbie Keane or Craig Bellamy.
And Klopp is still interested in buying Naby Keïta; happily, his keenly held and earnestly principled objection to astronomical transfer fees is limited to those not paid by him. Keïta’s manager at RB Leipzig, Ralf Rangnick, has again insisted that the player will not be leaving this summer, but noted that, in a year’s time, he will be free to go for a piffling and profoundly moral £48m.
On the other hand Liverpool took just 35 minutes to reject Barcelona’s bid for Philippe Coutinho – where he would link up with former Liverpool player, Luis Suárez. Liverpool, by the way, are not a selling club, though it is only right and proper that those they’d like to buy from are. Anyway, the fee offered for Coutinho, a player who has neither won anything nor played in the Champions League, was £90.3m – or for those who struggle to grasp a number so abstract, 9,030,000,000 cola bottles. This will, though, all be moot should Barcelona persuade Borussia Dortmund to sell them Ousmane Dembélé as they cannot afford both.
Across Merseyside, it now transpires that Ross Barkley might stay with Everton. It was widely hoped that he would join Manchester United to sustain the joy of him saying “Lukaku” on a regular basis, but with no offer from Old Trafford forthcoming, nor anywhere else, there is a fair chance that he will stay put. And Gylfi Sigurdsson is still likely to arrive from Swansea once a suitably appalling fee has been agreed upon.
Meanwhile, Real Madrid’s famously incisive talent scouts have been at it again. Now that Kylian Mbappé is likely to sign for Paris Saint-Germain, they have noticed that Juventus’s Paulo Dybala is also good at football. Secret talks have been held, which is why one can read about them in a column such as this.
Elsewhere, Milan would like to sign Zlatan Ibrahimovic. The Swedish self-effacer actually played for the club between 2010 and 2012, but it is more likely that he will re-sign for Manchester United, who are showing discouraging signs of pace and movement.
Back in England, the game, inasmuch as it relates to Ben Gibson of Middlesbrough, is afoot. Both Southampton and West Brom would like him for their defence, but Boro manager Garry Monk is insisting that he spend a year of his life earning less money for less professional satisfaction. Monk is also upset that the transfer window remains open even though the season has already started, and rightly so; we are, though, lucky that the world has no more pressing issues with which to disturb our equilibrium.
Guardian writers’ predicted position 12th (NB: this is not necessarily Nick Ames’ prediction but the average of our writers’ tips)
Last season’s position 10th
Odds to win the league (via Oddschecker) 750-1
Sometimes jokes write themselves so, when Eddie Jones paid Tony Pulis and the West Bromwich Albion squad a fact-finding visit last week, the wisecracks proliferated accordingly. Who would be learning from whom? “The chance to meet Tony was a big factor,” the England rugby coach said. “His reputation goes a long way and his ability to get the most out of his team is just fantastic.”
When West Brom overpowered Arsenal 3-1 in mid-March, thanks in large part to a characteristic lesson in movement at set pieces, that statement may have rung truer than ever. They had spent almost three months in eighth place and, while their approach was firmly disposed to functionality ahead of flair, only a churl could have argued with the results. A fortnight later they slogged out a goalless draw at Old Trafford; this was Pulis by numbers and, at that stage, his team looked comfortably on course to equal their best finish in the Premier League era – eighth in 2012-13.
The taste in May was rather less sweet. Albion managed only a single point from their final eight games and attained an unwanted club record of five in the league without scoring. They still finished 10th – an improvement of four places on the previous campaign – but the sensation was an odd one. It had been another season of overachievement but the nagging impression of dissatisfaction around The Hawthorns was difficult to ignore.
That reflects the wider feeling in a pre-season that has, for those seeking signs of further progress, moved glacially. The problem West Brom have is this: they are more stable than ever, more wealthy than ever, too, but it is difficult to shake the view that they are punching as high as they can.
They had briefly climbed to seventh position prior to 18 consecutive match days lodged in eighth but the European places always seemed remote. Theirs is the curse of the Premier League’s bloated middle: a group of eight or nine clubs, all rich beyond their wildest dreams, who are going neither up nor down and whose prospects appear almost interchangeable.
If there is, for many observers, a concern that the top half-dozen are pulling away at an increasing rate, then all a club such as West Brom can do is keep up with the arms race in the stratum below.
The question, then, is how they do it. Pulis is understandably seen within the club as their insurance against relegation and although it raised eyebrows when, within weeks of last summer’s takeover by Guochuan Lai, he extended his contract to 2018, there was plenty of sense in the deal. Ensuring West Brom remain a Premier League brand would justify Lai’s investment for now, and Pulis’s track record serves as reassurance that it can be realised without exorbitant levels of further financial speculation. It is not a quality to scoff at but a sizeable proportion of the club’s support take the view that, if this is as lofty as things are likely to get, they may as well have a go at achieving the same end in rather more enjoyable style.
There is scant prospect of added levity over the next nine months, though, and Pulis’s enlisting of Gary Megson as his new No2 – replacing the retired David Kemp – suggests little will change structurally. Pulis likes to have experienced assistance and Megson, who had been out of the game since being sacked by Sheffield Wednesday in 2012, is cut from a similar cloth to his new boss.
“Although we’ve never lived in each other’s pockets we have similar views on how football should be played and how footballers should behave,” Megson said of Pulis upon returning to Albion. That aside, the appointment does hold some sentimental value: Megson won Albion promotion to the Premier League twice in the early 2000s and was an important architect of their modern-day transformation. Recruiting him is not a visionary move but may encourage a softer stance towards the managerial team.
Now they need the players to make that easier. The departure of Darren Fletcher to Stoke City in June was unexpected and dealt Pulis a serious setback. Last season’s squad were not short of leaders but Fletcher, who had been ever-present in midfield for two years, was their captain and leaves a sizeable hole.
Pulis would like to replace his experience with that of Everton’s Gareth Barry but a deal may be difficult to do. Jake Livermore did well after his January arrival from Hull City but whether or not Pulis opts to put faith in the promise of the 19-year-old Sam Field – of whom he professes to be a fan – at least one addition in that area seems imperative before the end of the month.
That is only one issue that still needs addressing, although Pulis has, at least, bolstered his attack with the acquisition of Jay Rodriguez for £12m from Southampton. It seems a good fit; Rodriguez has looked like a player in need of a fresh start and is a viable partner for Salomón Rondón, who could benefit from more movement and guile around him.
Rondón only scored once in his final 23 games of last term, a statistic few could have foreseen when he scored a hat-trick against Swansea City in December, but Pulis values his work rate and ability to create space for others. Greater depth in that area still seems necessary in case West Brom hit trouble, although if Matt Phillips and Nacer Chadli can operate to their potential on the flanks then the need for a prolific striker may be lessened. The latter’s future looked in doubt when a row with Pulis led to his missing the squad’s summer training camp in Austria, although he is now expected to stay and Albion will hope reported interest from Swansea is no distraction.
Another forward, the China international Zhang Yuning, was signed from Vitesse on a three-year contract in July and promptly loaned to Werder Bremen for the first two of them. The motive behind his acquisition appears to be a question for Lai rather than his head coach and it means Rodriguez has been joined by only one other arrival of first-team relevance so far.
Ahmed Hegazy, a towering Egyptian centre-back who had an outstanding Africa Cup of Nations this year, will play on loan from Al Ahly for the year and looks a plausible alternative to the 37-year-old Gareth McAuley, even if a glance at his record suggests he may not add the same number of goals.
Any further activity may well follow a similar pattern to last year when Pulis made three signings, including Chadli, in the final 72 hours of the transfer window. The Middlesbrough defender Ben Gibson remains a top target but Pulis offers no apology for biding his time in signing the right characters, seeking to avoid “what the club did three or four years ago when they just brought in a load of players and hoped they were good”.
Kieran Gibbs of Arsenal is among those Pulis considered for this season before deciding the fit was not right; it may be a frustrating approach but it is a responsible one and in general the stickability of those purchases he has made during his two and a half years in charge has borne out that caution.
On paper West Brom have a kind start to 2017-18. Bournemouth, Burnley, Stoke, Brighton & Hove Albion and West Ham United are their first five opponents, although the flipside is that against teams he will expect to take points from, Pulis may prefer his squad to be closer to fighting weight. The likelihood is that most of those fixtures will simply play an early part in deciding the final mid-table shakeup; Pulis will make do in those early weeks and even if a run of unspectacular friendly results has caused jitters among the fanbase, Albion should avoid proximity to the bottom three.
If that is not enough then the Premier League’s status quo, and the impatient culture around it, may be as much to blame as anything but the reality is that one more year of moderate success using the Pulis mould may suffice.
A cut to season ticket prices this summer had the desired effect, with sales reaching a seven-year high, but the picture 12 months from now may be more telling.
Assuming the team reaches a plateau this season, the looming expiry of Pulis’s contract will be a test both of Lai’s ambition and his nerve. It would be easy enough to part ways and make West Brom different; the question is whether anyone, in the present environment, can really make them better.