
Sony showed off brand new gameplay footage of its survival horror zombie game Days Gone to kick off its E3 showcase today. We’ve seen a healthy chunk of the title in the past, but the new trailer gives us a good glimpse of how the game plans on blending personal, high-stakes narrative with larger-scale terrifying zombie set pieces — plus, motorcycle travel.
A early and apparent signature of the game is hordes of 30 to 40 zombies that mob you in dynamic ways and at anxiety-inducing speeds.  The new footage shows off the ways in which players  have to maneuver those survival settings and with more intense human encounters.
Days Gone is being developed by SIE Bend Studio, known (under its earlier moniker Eidetic) for 1999 stealth game Syphon Filter and several sequels. Sony announced the game last year at E3, complete with a gameplay clip showing a truly ridiculous number of zombies. It was  rumored well before that, under the pulpier title Dead Don’t Ride.
The latest cinematic trailer for Uncharted: The Lost Legacy gives a closer look at some of the gorgeous new ruins and areas players  able to explore in Naughty Dog’s next epic. Announced in December, The Lost Legacy is a spinoff of the main Uncharted franchise and the first game in the series to not star hero Nathan Drake. (He retired from treasure hunting after last year’s Uncharted 4.) The game pairs Uncharted 2 treasure hunter Chloe Frazer with the mercenary Nadine Ross from last year’s Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End.
Uncharted: The Lost Legacy is scheduled to be released on PlayStation 4 on August 22nd.
Superhot VR is coming to PlayStation’s virtual reality headset this summer, Sony announced on its E3 pre-show live stream today. The game, which first came out on PC, Mac, and Linux last year, became a truly amazing VR experience when it was ported to the Oculus Rift for how it makes use of motion and the idea of time. It appears the Rift exclusivity window Superhot’s developers agreed to has ended, giving Sony the chance to bring it over to PS VR at last.
The non-VR original introduced a unique shooter element never before seen: a game where time moves only when you do. When the game came to the Rift back in December, this game design feature was heightened by replacing  your physical body as the primary input control. Suddenly, even the most subtle of movements would send bullets and polygonal enemies racing toward you at frightening speeds.
Only by slowing down, planning your route of attack, and carrying out smooth and flawless movements could you overcome your foes. Plus, it made you feel like a true action movie badass in ways few shooter games have ever accomplished, all with low-key graphics and plain environments. Sony didn’t announce an official release date, but we can expect it some time in the next couple of months.
Ubisoft brought out the big guns — quite literally and fantastically, at times — to start their E3 2017 press conference. The event started with legendary Nintendo designer Shigeru Miyamoto, who brought hand cannon toys on stage to introduce Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. Ubisoft  announced Transference, a VR project with actor Elijah Wood; competitive naval pirate game Skull & Bones; and racing game The Crew 2 (now with boats and planes). Of course, it wouldn’t be an Ubisoft show without Assassin’s Creed, Far Cry, and a tease about Beyond Good and Evil 2 — so yeah, those were there, too.
There was, alas no Aisha Tyler hosting this year.
Waymo is done driving around the cute, steering-wheel-free autonomous cars that were introduced by Google back in 2014. In a blog post this afternoon, Waymo leaders write that time has come to “retire our fleet of Fireflies” — their name for the tiny cars — and focus instead of integrating self-driving technology into other vehicles, like the Chrysler Pacifica minivans Waymo put on the road earlier this year.
“By focusing on mass-produced vehicles like the Pacifica minivan, we’ll be able to bring fully self-driving technology to more people, more quickly,” the Waymo leaders write. They  say that focusing on mass-produced vehicles opens up more opportunities for testing, since the Fireflies were limited to a top speed of 25 miles per hour.
The move shows Google pretty definitely moving away from producing its own vehicles and competing with automakers to instead focusing on collaborating with and selling technology to any automakers that are interested. While Google  be competing with quite a few other companies at this point to sell self-driving tech, it has a head start on testing; and ultimately, selling the technology is going to be a lot easier than figuring out how to mass produce and market its own self-driving cars.
Still, there’s something disappointing about seeing Waymo’s first self-driving car — and its bold vision for the future of vehicles — disappear in favor of a traditional vehicle. Google imagined a world without steering wheels, shifters, or a brake pedal, where the inside of a car was designed just for sitting. We may well get back to that point some day. But for now, don’t expect your first self-driving car to have a smiley face on it.
Clickfarms are a dubious business people rarely get a peek inside of, but accept as part of our everyday internet existence. We know companies pay bots to shower likes, emoji, ratings, nonsensical comments, and plain traffic on content in order to artificially boost online popularity and rake in ad dollars. Now, a recent raid in Thailand is giving another look at the underbelly of the bot industry.
According to the Bangkok Post, Thai police and soldiers raided a rented home yesterday near the Cambodian border, discovering an alleged clickfarm ring run by three Chinese nationals. Wang Dong, Niu Bang, and Ni Wenjin are said to have had metal racks set up in the house with hundreds of 5S, 5C, and 4S iPhones wired to computer monitors. In total, 474 iPhones, 347,200 unused SIM cards belonging to Thai mobile phone operators, 10 computers / laptops, and other assorted electronics were reportedly seized.
Officers originally thought the men were running a fraudulent call center, but the suspects said they were being paid to operate a vast network of bot accounts on WeChat, China’s largest social network. According to the Post, the trio of men said a Chinese company (which they refused to name) supplied the phones and was paying them each 150,000 baht per month (about $4,403 USD) to artificially boost engagement on WeChat for products sold online in China. The operation was reportedly headquartered in Thailand due to the country’s relatively cheap smartphone usage fees.
WeChat’s bot problem is not new. The platform has over 700 million monthly users, most in China; chatbots are legitimately used by brands to interact with clients, but unsanctioned ones run rampant, spamming groups and artificially bloating brand likes and follows.
The Bangkok Post says the men were arrested on several charges including overstaying their visas, working without a permit, using unregistered SIM cards, and, according to a later report  from the Bangkok Post, smuggling. Working without a permit in Thailand can result in a five-year prison sentence, or a fine ranging from 2,000-100,000 baht (about $58-$2,936 USD), or both.
Police are currently looking into how the men were able to smuggle so many smartphones into the country and acquire such a large number of local SIM cards, which are legally required to keep users’ records once activated.
รวบแล้ว! ไม่หมดแค่นี้ยังมีอีกเยอะ!!!

สระแก้ว : รวบมือรับจ้างกดไลค์

11 มิ.ย. 60 

ว่าที่ พ.ต.อ.เบญจพล รอดสวาสดิ์ ผกก.ตม...
Alienware has announced an updated version of its flagship Area 51 gaming PC, which is getting upgraded with a choice of Intel’s new Core X-series processors or AMD’s recently announced Ryzen Threadripper chips.
The Area 51 is built to order, and there’s room for some truly ridiculous specs if you have the means. From Intel Core-X series, customers have the choice of the 6-core i7 7800X, 8-core i7 7820X, or 10-core i9 7900X processors. Meanwhile, graphics cards range from a single Nvidia GTX 1050 Ti, to dual GTX 1080 Ti cards running in SLI, all the way to triple AMD Radeon RX 580s running with AMD Crossfire.
The Threadripper model  be available starting July 27th, while the Core X variant is shipping at the end of the summer. Prices for both have yet to be announced, but given the ridiculous level of high-end hardware Alienware has to offer, it probably won’t be cheap.

Alienware is debuting a new line of accessories at E3 this year, with new mice, keyboards, and a new high-end gaming monitor that  go perfectly with your Alienware computer.
First up, the mice. Alienware has two new ones to offer: the $49.99 Advanced Gaming Mouse, and the $89.99 Elite Gaming Mouse. Both mice offer the option to quickly switch DPI sensitivity on the fly, customizable LEDs, and nine configurable buttons. The more expensive Elite Gaming Mouse builds on that with more premium materials, adjustable weights, and more DPI levels.
On the keyboard side of things, Alienware has the $89.99 Advanced Gaming Keyboard, which has KaiHua brown mechanical switches and ambient LED lighting. And for a step up, there’s the $119.99 Pro Gaming Keyboard, which adds backlight keys, a dedicated volume roller, and onboard memory for storing macros.
Lastly, there’s the Alienware 25 Gaming Monitor, which offers 1920 x 1080 resolution, a native refresh rate of 240Hz, and a 1-millisecond response time. And true to the company’s philosophy of hardware choice, the Alienware 25 is available in both a $499.99 model with AMD FreeSync or a $699.9 model with Nvidia’s G-Sync, depending on your preference.
I'm already really excited about Apple's drag-and-drop functionality in iOS 11. The big limitation, however, is that you can only drag and drop between apps on the iPad. On the iPhone your drag and drops are constrained to moving objects around inside an app. For a feature that's so dependent on developer adoption, restraining its most interesting use case to a platform that's vastly less popular than the iPhone is disappointing.
However, we're learning today that iPhone inter-app drag and drop actually exists in iOS 11, it's just disabled by a hidden system setting that can't be accessed by users. Here it is in action:
Interprocess drag & drop on iPhone is gated by the BOOL 'CancelOnDeactivationPhone' in the UIKit prefs (and the aforementioned) pic.twitter.com/6wUbQNd18f
Developer Steve Troughton-Smith, who is famous for finding hidden and undocumented features in Apple products, discovered the functionality in the iOS 11 beta. Steve reasonably conjectures that if the next iPhone has a software home button, it might make the perfect drop target:
If Apple’s gonna have an onscreen homebutton on the iPhone 8, it would make a lot of sense to spring-load it for drag & drop. A drop target
Because the iPhone doesn't have the slide-up dock, multitasking view, or split screen apps that the iPad has, I can see why Apple thought it should limit drag and drop to its larger mobile device. Hopefully the company  change its mind by the time iOS 11 is ready to ship so we can bring drag and drop to all the people.
Ubisoft put together a nicely varied press conference for this year’s E3, including a partnership with Nintendo, a weird VR game from Elijah Wood’s film studio, and more details about big tentpoles like Far Cry 5. There weren’t massive surprises, especially because Assassin’s Creed Origins, one of its biggest games at the show, was announced during Microsoft’s conference yesterday.
At the same time, we got one very exciting reveal: Beyond Good and Evil 2, a game that’s been teased for years. You can get the biggest news below, or check out all the details here.
Crossing the world of Mario with Ubisoft’s Raving Rabbids is strange enough, but it’s even weirder that Mario + Rabbids: Battle Kingdom seems to be an XCOM-like tactical game. Among other things, it’s got Mega Man-style arm cannons, destructible environments, and classic Mario characters played by Rabbids in cosplay. And it’ll be out for the Nintendo Switch on August 29th.
After many false starts, Ubisoft might finally be making the long-awaited sequel to 2003 classic Beyond Good and Evil — except actually, it’s a prequel. We got an exciting new trailer with a Fifth Element vibe at this year’s E3, although we still don’t know when the game might launch. It’s too early to celebrate, but given that another perennial E3 no-show — The Last Guardian — was finally released last year, anything is possible.
Lots of people loved Assassin’s Creed: Black Flag, so Ubisoft apparently decided to give players a piracy-focused game called Skull & Bones. It’s a seafaring multiplayer game where you build a fleet, customize your ships, and battle fellow pirates. It’ll be released in 2018. It may include a kraken.
Ubisoft’s sequel to 2014 game The Crew is set in an open world where you can push the speed limits of just about any vehicle — cars, planes, dirt bikes, boats, and more. Its truly ridiculous cinematic trailer looks like Inception: Extreme Sports Edition, which probably isn’t literally representative of the game, but remains gorgeous. There’s  some footage of the gameplay, including an offroad competition and a plane race through Manhattan. The game comes out in 2018, but it’s accepting applications for a beta before then.
We already knew the latest Far Cry game was set in Montana, where players would be fighting a rural religious cult. Now we know you’ll be doing it with a sniper partner, an aerial warfare expert, and a pet dog named Boomer, all of which  help you cause fairly ludicrous amounts of destruction. The game launches February 27th.
When Amazon introduced voice calling for its Echo devices, we criticized the company for seemingly rolling out the feature without really paying any mind to privacy. It was quickly discovered that users had no way of blocking calls and message to Echo products in their home, and Amazon promised to fix the oversight “in the coming weeks. Today it’s starting that effort. A just-released update to the Alexa app for iOS mentions “the ability to block contacts from calling and messaging you.”
The block feature can be added from the contacts list; you just scroll down, choose the person you don’t want to receive calls or messages from, and tap “block contact.”
I don’t yet see the block feature on the Android version of Alexa, but hopefully Amazon  update that app quickly so that everyone can have greater control over who has a quick line into their home. (You’re unable to block users from Alexa’s web settings, so the app is required.) Unfortunately, turning off calling/messaging functionality altogether is still too difficult for customers, as it requires a phone call to Amazon customer service. Ridiculous.
The long-awaited sequel to Beyond Good & Evil is indeed real, and we have proof: Ubisoft just released a surprise cinematic trailer for the game at the publisher’s E3 keynote. The trailer kicks off with a long chase sequence featuring a monkey with a cybernetic hand and a human companion racing through a futuristic cityscape, before the pair blast off into space. There doesn’t appear to be any returning characters from the first game; story wise, it  actually be a prequel.
Here’s how Ubisoft describes it:
Journey to System 3, for the prequel to one of Ubisoft’s most beloved games! Fight alongside unforgettable characters in a stunning new solar system, as you struggle for freedom and the right to determine your own fate among the stars. Play the adventure by yourself or with friends in a vast and seamless online playground.
Beyond Good & Evil 2 is the spiritual successor to the cult classic, a prequel that  transport players into a profoundly multicultural world, capturing the spirit of the original with grandiose decors and intense dramas that play out across a vast universe. Through the Space Monkey Program, Ubisoft Montpellier  be developing the game alongside its community of fans.
Beyond Good & Evil 2 is a follow-up to a 2003 cult classic, a Zelda-style adventure about a photojournalist uncovering secrets on a strange alien world. The sequel was announced in 2008, but we’ve heard remarkably little since then. Instead of big splashy reveals or flashy trailers, news of the game has primarily come from the Instagram feed of Michel Ancel, designer and director on both games, who occasionally posts art and updates about the sequel.
While the new trailer proves Beyond Good & Evil 2 does in fact exist, there are still plenty of questions, such as when it  launch and on what platforms. In the meantime, you can watch this lengthy trailer breakdown with Ancel.
The new gameplay trailer for Far Cry 5 introduces us to the faces of the resistance, who are trying to liberate a small town from the clutches of murderous religious zealots. Over the course of the 3-minute demo we meet Grace Armstrong, a tough-talking sniper out of a 1970s blaxploitation film; Nick Rye, a flying ace who rains death from above in his small plane, and Boomer, an angry dog. In the demo, they team up to stop a group of gun-wielding thugs from murdering a couple of unlucky residents.
Far Cry 5 is the follow-up to last year’s prehistoric-themed Far Cry Primal, which launched two years after Far Cry 4. Ubisoft’s forthcoming open-world game is set to include two-player co-op and a map editor.
It is scheduled to be released February 27th on PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.
Ubisoft took the stage at its E3 press conference to announce some new games and show off some existing ones. There’s more of Assassin’s Creed: Origins and Far Cry 5, a new pirate game called Skull and Bones, and in one of the biggest surprises of the show, a new trailer for the long-awaited Beyond Good and Evil 2. Here are the biggest trailers, gameplay videos, and announcements from the EA’s E3 2017 event.
Ubisoft has just announced Starlink: Battle for Atlas, a new space shooter that  feature the first ever modular and collectible Nintendo Switch controller add-ons. The game, unveiled at the publisher’s E3 press conference today, looks like a mix of Mass Effect and No Man’s Sky, putting players in the role of interstellar pilots fighting an malevolent artificial intelligence force.
Of course, the plot is secondary compared to the real-life collectibles for the Switch-specific version. The first trailer for Starlink shows the Switch controller acting as a base to mount some impressive looking toy starships and even a Skylanders / Amiibo-style NFC pilot figurine. At one point, the user in the video even swaps out parts on the ship to change the customization options in the game. You’ll  be able to buy an accessory it seems to mount the collectibles onto a PlayStation or Xbox controller, so this isn’t just a Switch-specific feature. (The game is being advertised as multi-platform.)
We don’t know much else about Starlink, but it’s slated for a fall 2018 release.

Ubisoft has announced it  sell 200 special editions (in North America) of Assassin’s Creed Origins, but the package won’t come with a real life hawk, so like, what’s even the point. For those still interested, the package includes Assassin’s Creed Origins Gold Edition, the season pass, a “Digital Deluxe Pack,” an additional mission, a 28.7-inch statue, a hand-drawn artistic representation of the game’s map, a collector’s case, a replica amulet, a steelbook, an artbook, four lithographs, and the soundtrack. But again, no real life hawk.
Who spends $800 on an Assassin’s Creed special edition, if it doesn’t give them an actual hawk that  be your new best friend and closest confidant, running errands and reconnaissance, just like the fake hawk in the video game. My guess is people who love statues. Featuring protagonist Batek and his hawk Senu, the figurine is extremely detailed. You could even trick a very young child that the tiny hawk is real. But it isn’t.
The special edition  only be available on Ubisoft’s UPlay store.

Ubisoft just showed off some bits and pieces of The Crew 2, the first full sequel to 2014’s The Crew. And judging from what we saw onstage and in the videos Ubisoft just uploaded to YouTube, The Crew 2 is all about taking the idea of an open-world racer to almost absolute limits.
The Crew 2 isn’t about wowing you with lifelike physics, or overwhelming you with a collection of pixel-perfect, officially licensed cars (though it definitely includes a bunch). Instead, it’s all about letting you drive everything. That means cars, racecars, off-road cars, planes, boats, bikes, and more. The trailer shows off everything from street racing, to Formula One-style competition, to a stand-in for the Red Bull Air Race series. There’s even a few glimpses of Sprint Boat racing — a niche but truly insane form of motorsports that you should take a few minutes to watch right now.
Of course, in true Crew fashion, all of this is taken way beyond realism, to sometimes questionable extremes. (The planes, for instance, are shown racing through and around the buildings of Manhattan, which seems like an iffy choice no matter what year it is.) Whether Ubisoft can still make the game feel grounded while reaching for such heights is a question worth asking in the coming months as The Crew 2 comes out in beta, and when it hits Xbox, PlayStation, and PC in 2018.

Ubisoft announced a new pirate game called Skull and Bones at its E3 keynote: a shared world where you can team up with friends to sail and loot your way to pirate supremacy.
The game looks like in many ways an upgraded version of the piratical party of Assassin's Creed 4: Black Flag, just with only the nautical bits (i.e., the best parts of that game.) Skull and Bones is set in the Golden Age of Piracy, with players able to build fleets, customize ships, and of course, plunder treasure from trading ships and other pirates.
Ubisoft showed off a 5v5 multiplayer battle in Skull and Bones at the keynote, and it looks seriously impressive, with some stunning graphics and interesting applications of real world sailing factors like the wind and cannon angles. If that wasn’t enough, there are sea shanties! And a kraken!
Skull and Bones is set to release in 2018 for PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4.
President Trump’s twitter habit has been a force for chaos since the early days of the campaign — but now, Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) has a plan to make sure those tweets end up in a permanent archive. Named after one of Trump’s most bewildering tweets, the COVFEFE Act (short for Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement) would amend the Presidential Records Act to include social media as a documentary material. The proposal has a long way to go, but if it passes, it would result in a legal requirement to ensure all @POTUS tweets, direct messages, and Facebook posts end up in the presidential archive — even if they’re deleted from the service itself.
Maintaining those tweets is particularly urgent, as the president’s Twitter account has become one of the central means of decoding the administration’s goals and motivations. A circuit court decision earlier today cited a @realDonaldTrump tweet concerning the travel ban as evidence of presidential intent, and the White House has confirmed that tweets from the accounts are to be taken as official statements. A recently launched Twitter account has taken that idea one step further, reformatting @RealDonaldTrump tweets as press releases from the official press secretary. More recently, free speech groups filed a lawsuit arguing that blocking users from the account constitutes a violation of the First Amendment.
A statement by the President: pic.twitter.com/MQ8EddMHtB
At the same time, @realDonaldTrump has far more deleted tweets than the average government account. ProPublica records seven separate deletions since the beginning of May, and eighteen since the inauguration. Those range from simple typos like the “covfefe” tweet to significant political statements, including one tweet that seems to call for a subpoena against former assistant US Attorney Sally Yates.
In theory, records of those are being maintained as part of an informal understanding between the White House and the National Archives, which holds all presidential records after the end of a president’s term. The National Archives have advised the White House to preserve deleted tweets, and according to a statement to Congress in March, the White House agreed to do so. Still, that’s only an informal agreement, and if the White House violated it, it’s not clear there would be any legal consequences.
For Rep. Quigley, it’s worth making that requirement a full-fledged law. “If the President is going to take to social media to make sudden public policy proclamations, we must ensure that these statements are documented and preserved for future reference,” he said in a statement. “Tweets are powerful, and the President must be held accountable for every post.”
Ubisoft Montreal and Elijah Wood’s film studio SpectreVision are working on a virtual reality “psychological thriller” called Transference. We don’t know much about the game, but its trailer combines modern VR imagery with shades of ‘80s techno-horror. It’s apparently about a world where human memories can be digitally recreated, and players navigate “the maze-like puzzle of an impossible home” in a branching narrative about a man and his troubled family. It  star Macon Blair, who starred in indie films Green Room and Blue Ruin before directing dark revenge comedy I Don’t Feel at Home in this World Anymore.
Transference  be supported on Oculus Rift, PlayStation VR, and HTC Vive. But unlike Ubisoft’s last VR game Star Trek: Bridge Crew, it’s  available outside VR on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. Building something that works on both mediums could be hard, and we don’t know what the game  look like or how it’ll be played. But it’s supposed to be coming out in the spring of 2018.
SpectreVision —co-founded by Elijah Wood, Daniel Noah, and Josh C. Waller — is the studio behind horror film A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night and Bitch, one of the weirdest films we saw at Sundance this year. Wood previously narrated the Emmy Award-winning Henry, an animated short from Oculus’ now-shuttered VR film studio. This looks like a much darker take on virtual reality, although at this point, it could turn out to be just about anything.
Ubisoft has announced Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, a game that combines Nintendo’s iconic franchise with Ubisoft’s Raving Rabbids in a tactical, turn-based RPG. The game was confirmed today, and  release on August 29th for the Nintendo Switch. Oh, and for some reason, everyone has giant Mega Man-style cannons on their arms.
According to Shigeru Miyamoto, who took the stage at Ubisoft’s event to announce the game, he challenged the development team to make a Mario game unlike any Mario game before. The gameplay consists of a mix of exploration, combined with what looks like an XCOM-styled, top-down turn-based combat. Just, you know with Mario and Rabbid characters instead of gritty space soliders.
Rumors about the mash-up have been circulating since early 2017. But the first real look at the game arrived when key art — featuring classic Mario characters like the eponymous plumber, Yoshi, and Luigi — leaked in May. The image  showed off the Rabbids, dressed up like characters from the Mario franchise.
A new report from marketing firm Mediakix looked at posts from the Instagram accounts of the platform’s 50 most-followed celebrities over a period of one month. The report found that 93 percent of posts promoting a brand were not labeled in a way that made them compliant with the FTC guidelines.
BuzzFeed’s Katie Notopoulos sorted the full list of 152 non-compliant Instagram posts into four categories, determined by what type of sponsored content they were. Her analysis found that 49 percent were posts failing to disclose a long-term sponsorship agreement, such as Selena Gomez’s partnership with Coach. Sixteen percent failed to disclose what she termed a “big freebie” (a gift from a brand with a value of thousands of dollars). Twelve percent failed to disclose a “small freebie” (items like clothes, accessories, or beauty products). And 12 percent failed to label obvious pay-to-post ads, like one-time-only posts about diet teas, teeth whiteners, or meal kit boxes. (The types of things the Kardashians got in trouble for last year.) Eleven percent of the posts were deemed “unclear.”
This is an ongoing problem for the FTC, and for consumers. The regulatory organization announced plans to enforce stricter rules about social media posting in the summer of 2016, but celebrities largely seem to have continued doing whatever they want.
visited my @stuartweitzman fam at the new HQ today     newness coming sooooon !!
A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) on Apr 13, 2017 at 7:18pm PDT
Many Instagram celebrities came under fire following this spring’s disastrous Fyre Festival, which was advertised extensively in expensive sponsored posts. Not all of these posts were labeled, and they were all posted by people who seemed to know almost nothing about the festival. Earlier that month, the FTC announced that it had sent letters to 90 brands and celebrities on Instagram, advising them to disclose their sponsored content more clearly and re-outlining the rules.
FTC guidelines say sponsored Instagram posts can be considered compliant in one of two ways: either a very clear caption using words like “sponsored by,” or the appending of a hashtag like #ad or #sponsored. The hashtags have to be “conspicuous,” meaning that they can’t be tacked onto the end of a long caption or series of hashtags, and they must appear without a viewer having to click “more.”
The only way this gets fuzzy is when celebs try to wriggle around the rules by using vaguer terms like “Thanks [brand]!,” or hashtags like #sp and #partner, which the FTC does not deem clear enough for the average Instagram user.
Oooo ahhhhh! This has to be my favorite box from @fabfitfun yet. It's brimming with some seriously top notch products. I feel Like I'm stealing because I got all these goodies for the price of one of these products. Remember per usual these aren't dinky sample sizes, these are full size products. I'm having a hard time picking one specifically to tell you about but I'm kinda really living for this @gypsy05 roundie especially for summer time at the beach or park or even as a throw inside for a pop of color. I'm going to  Be getting A LOT of use out of this. Scroll to the left to see more pics of what is in the box and watch my story for a deeper look. But honestly don't waste time because it  sell out. Head to www.fabfitfun.com and use my code MALONEY and you  receive $10 off. #fabfitfun #fffpartner
A post shared by Katie Maloney-Schwartz (@musickillskate) on Mar 23, 2017 at 2:47pm PDT
One major exception to the rules is promotion of artistic projects, which don’t have to be disclosed as an ad. Examples would be a film that the celebrity acted in, a magazine photoshoot they appeared in, or a new music album released by a friend. But those are easy to recognize, and don’t have the same deceptive effect on consumers.
The biggest offender is fashion. Mediakix found that 61 percent of sponsored posts were related to the fashion industry, which explains, somewhat, why the lines between paid and personal are so often blurred. Does wearing Reebok track pants automatically count as an ad? Well, no, but asking the question is a useful rhetorical device when you’re trying to get out of trouble. Tagging a favorite makeup artist in a post might be an ad or it might not be, and it’s easy to argue that it was just a good-faith hat tip.
The FTC’s guide for promoting brands on social media is extensive, and pretty much crystal clear. So, aside from the fact that they’ve yet to face any consequences, it doesn’t make a lot of sense that celebrities keep messing it up.
A representative for the FTC declined to comment for this story.
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that the FTC sent letters to 90 celebrities / influencers but the letters went to 45 brands and 45 celebrities / influencers.
When it comes to purchasing a mechanical watch, there are seemingly a million different options to choose from. From materials, to price range, country of origin, color, band style — the different choices are nearly endless. But I’m here to make that decision easier.
There are three main factors to take under consideration when you’re in the market for a mechanical watch: style, dial, and price. These three elements can lead you to the perfect watch for any situation, whether it’s a gift for someone else or a new watch for you.
This is the biggest question you need to ask yourself: what type of watch do you want? The first option to tick off here is metal bracelet or leather strap? There are  NATO straps to consider as well, but those can fit on most watches and are available from a number of third parties.
Within the metal vs. leather debate, there are different materials under each section: do you want a gold, stainless steel, or platinum bracelet? Black leather or brown? Gold accents or silver?
The options seem daunting, but most people have predetermined preferences. Leather bands are traditionally for more formal events, but higher-end metal bracelets are just as respected.
After you figure out the materials you want in your watch, the next step is choosing the dial. There are a ton of options here to choose from, with a number of complications like the date, secondhand sub-dials, time zones, chronographs, tourbillions, Moon phases, and so on.
Perhaps none of these things are going to be crucial to you, unless you have a specific reason why you’re buying a watch. (For example, a chronograph would be useful for a diver.) For most people, the real choice here is design. Do you want a busy dial, or something more clean and minimal? A chronograph  offer you three subdials, while a simple date complication  keep the dial relatively sparse.
If this is your first watch, something more minimal with sleek hands that can be worn in any environment may be more appealing. If you have a piece like that already, or if you want a more advanced timepiece, a more complicated watch like a chronograph could be the way to go.
The price won’t determine what features you can get in your watch, but it  determine the quality of the materials, construction, and the legacy of the timepiece you choose.
Sure, you can buy an Invicta off of Amazon for around $100 that  look relatively similar to a Rolex or a Hublot to the untrained eye. But if you do that, you’re getting gold paint instead of solid gold, a mass-produced movement instead of Rolex’s in-house option, and it definitely won’t be handmade.
There’s  the country of origin to take into consideration. Some people  want a true Swiss watch, while some may prefer a timepiece made in the US, or even Japan. The most expensive watches are definitely Swiss-made, with a few exceptions like Swatch, which are very popular and very affordable. Decent watches made in Japan and the US can be found for as low as $300.
Once you know what type of watch you want, buying your piece is the last step. I recommend going straight to the watchmaker’s store if possible. If that isn’t an option for you, check the watchmaker’s website for authorized resellers near you.
The resale market may  come into play if you’re looking for something like a vintage Rolex at an affordable price. (A used Rolex can range from $4,000 to well over $100,000 depending on the model.) Regardless of which piece you’re looking for, however, you should only buy a used watch from an authorized and reputed seller who has authenticated the piece. In the vintage watch market, fakes are very common, so it’s crucial for people who are new to watches to make sure the seller isn’t a charlatan.
A watch is something that can be passed down for multiple generations. It even grow in value if you select the right piece, and take care of it. So choose wisely, and know that there’s a good chance your investment may become the newest heirloom in your family.

Ubisoft is bringing some of its biggest franchises to Los Angeles this year, including Far Cry, Assassin’s Creed, and at least one brand new thing.
Not long ago the publisher unveiled Far Cry 5, which launches next year and shifts the setting to Montana, where players  face off against a religious doomsday cult. While we already know a lot about the setting and characters, expect to see a deeper dive into how the game  actually play at E3.
Meanwhile, we already know that a new Assassin’s Creed is in the works — rumors suggest it’ll take place in ancient Egypt — and we’re likely to get a first glimpse of the game in action during Ubisoft’s keynote.  expect to see more of the oft-delayed South Park RPG, the sequel to 2014 online racer The Crew, and potentially a few surprises as well; a teaser video notes that Ubisoft  reveal a brand new property at the event. Who knows, maybe there  actually be a mention of Beyond Good & Evil 2.
Here’s how to follow everything as it happens on June 12th:
Starting time: San Francisco: 1PM / New York: 4PM / London: 9PM / Berlin: 10PM / Moscow: 11PM / Beijing: 4AM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 5AM (June 13th) / Sydney: 6AM (June 13th).
Keynote live stream: Ubisoft  be streaming the event directly on its site, as well as on both Twitch and YouTube.
Anyone who has watched even isolated clips from The Bachelor or The Bachelorette can glean that it is an environment that makes otherwise normal people behave very strangely. The more savvy, dedicated viewer can identify week six as the usual tipping point where contestants go from having fun to crying at the slightest provocation, or threatening to punch someone at the slightest provocation, or doing bad karaoke, or getting naked, or trying to choke out the Bachelor at the slightest provocation.
It’s well known that the contestants have limited access to phones and the internet while they’re on the show, in part so that they don’t inadvertently spoil things and in part so that the producers can more convincingly orchestrate truly bananas scenarios in which the contestants “stumble upon” tabloids, consume them ravenously, and then freak out about their contents.
But just how limited is their access to media? As it turns out: so limited I can barely believe it. These guys and gals essentially sit in an enormous mansion (or various far-flung hotel rooms) all day for two months, with nothing to entertain them but their own thoughts and their competitors in the sport of love. It is a torture scenario derived from No Exit, and it thoroughly explains how stuff like this happens:
For starters, I asked the expert on all things The Bachelor and The Bachelor spinoffs, Reality Steve (a blogger who regularly knows the winner of a given season before it even starts airing), to fill me in. He said, to his knowledge, the only access to media the contestants ever have would be music, limited to flights between destination dates. Even then, as he has pointed out on his extremely popular blog, it’s case by case, and at the whims of the producers. Cellphones are taken away at the start of filming, and it’s not like these women are carrying Walkmans.
“They want their full focus 24/7 to be on the guy. Hence the reason you get so many meltdowns[.] You actually start believing you're falling in love [with] someone you barely know. It's essentially like Stockholm Syndrome.”
ABC declined to comment for this story, and several producers and former producers did not respond to request for comment.
So I took my question to the people who would know the restrictions of Bachelor Nation better than anyone: the contestants. They had varying accounts, which makes it seem as though the rules have changed over time, sometimes flip-flopping illogically. Though, all of them said that there was absolutely no access to internet and no exceptions to the mandate of surrendering a personal cellphone. (Contestants who have children are provided with a phone to use every few days, but can’t keep their personal devices.)
Two contestants from season 17 of The Bachelor, which starred Sean Lowe and aired in 2013, noted that the only books allowed on set were Bibles. Lowe’s religious beliefs weren’t marketed as central to the season, though his decision to remain celibate until marriage was often a point of discussion. ABC would not comment on specific claims from contestants, so it’s unclear why contestants would have been told that they could bring Bibles and no other books.
AshLee Frazier, who was eliminated in the penultimate episode of that season, told The Verge in an email, “No phone and no books. They were all taken. Music wasn't allowed, but some sneak it in and hope to not get caught. The only book[s] allowed are Bibles.”
Tierra LiCausi, known as the villain of that season, told The Verge via email, “Other contestants were allowed to read. Bible studies were held during my season, the girls would have weekly gatherings to study the Bible or discuss their beliefs [and their] religion (which was very interesting and unique to see) I definitely supported that and thought it brought a good vibe into the house. No magazines though.”
This rule may have been unique to Lowe’s season, as every other former contestant I spoke to recalled books being permitted. Wells Adams, who appeared on both Bachelorette season 12 and Bachelor in Paradise season 3 in 2016, said that he brought books with him to the sets of both shows. Whitney Fransway, who appeared in Nick Viall’s 2017 season of The Bachelor, said contestants on her season were allowed to bring “printed content,” including books and journals, but magazines were still prohibited. “They really try to keep us in the headspace of being in a bubble on the show,” she added.
Both LiCausi and Frazier said that “blackout days,” when the cast was allowed to take a day off from filming and rest, were the only times that anyone in Lowe’s cast could watch movies. Frazier remembered the production team choosing the film, which was Seth MacFarlane’s Ted.
Adams said contestants on his season of The Bachelorette were allowed to watch Interstellar in a hotel in Uruguay. None of the other contestants I spoke to remembered being permitted to watch a movie, though Tasos Hernandez, a contestant on Andi Dorfman’s 2014 season of The Bachelorette and the first season of Bachelor in Paradise, said that the restrictions on television were relaxed toward the end of his time on the former show. He said contestants were occasionally permitted to watch TV in hotel rooms between destination dates.
According to contestants, the rules around music have changed a lot, though not with any obvious progression. In general, the conditions for listening to music seem to be determined by individual producers, not the basic rules of the show.
LiCausi said her phone was held by a “chaperone” the entire time she was on the 2013 season of The Bachelor, but during flights and car rides some producers would lend iPads or iPods to contestants so they could listen to music: “The producers’ obligation was to keep us from being distracted from life itself and focus on what we were there for, to meet our future husband.”
Hernandez said iPods and books were both allowed on his 2014 season, “But whenever we were all together and filming we were not allowed to read or listen to music.” He  brought a guitar, and spent most of his downtime writing and performing new songs.
But Daniel Maguire, who appeared on both season 12 of The Bachelorette starring JoJo Fletcher and season 3 of Bachelor in Paradise, both in 2016, told The Verge in a phone call, “Once in a while, one of the producers might play a couple of minutes of a song, but they can’t have music playing often because they don’t have the copyrights. Plus they don’t want background noise and they don’t want people being distracted... On The Bachelorette, three or four guys brought guitars. Once in a while they played guitar. But [the producers] often didn’t want them to do that.”
Maguire said contestants were allowed to use MP3 players (but not phones) when running on the beach during Paradise filming, which Bachelorette season 12 contestant and Bachelor in Paradise season 3 contestant Wells Adams confirmed, saying he was allowed to use an iPod shuffle. Overall, contestants said they weren’t allowed to listen to music outside of exercise or travel time because producers don’t want anyone retreating from group conversation.
Maguire added, “If you’re sitting in a group, they won’t let you have headphones in. The number one reason is that they want everyone to engage with each other, they want everyone to be talking... They want dialogue and talking and discussion and that kind of stuff, they don’t want people to go off and listen to music.”
I asked Maguire if he thought this inability to seek private moments contributed to the drama on The Bachelorette or Bachelor in Paradise, reasoning that being forced to stay put and continue an uncomfortable conversation might escalate tense situations. He disagreed, saying “I think the biggest things for me were the lack of sleep — long nights, early mornings. In Paradise it gets very hot. And there’s a lot of alcohol.”
In any case, the rules around music seem to have swung back to Draconian measures in the last year. Fransway said contestants on her 2017 season of The Bachelor weren’t allowed “any personal electronic devices,” including music players: “We did always look forward to car rides when leaving home base because that would mean we did get to listen to music! We would only have to film for the first ten minutes when in transport and then we could listen to the music and dance during the car ride!”
Most of the contestants I spoke to didn’t remember being informed of any world or national news as a group. Maguire said, “Last year, when we were filming Paradise, someone brought up that there was a shooting in Orlando. They didn’t sit us down, but one of the producers or handlers or assistants kind of briefly just mentioned it to some of the people. For the most part they’re not saying anything, they kind of want us to be isolated and not have any distractions.”
Hernandez said his cast was not informed of any world news in 2014, but Adams remembered being informed by producers of two world news events in 2016: a terrorist bombing in Brussels and scores from the NCAA Final Four.
Nick Viall’s season of The Bachelor filmed during the end of the 2016 election season. Fransway said that contestants were provided with absentee ballots, adding, “The producers did keep us updated on what was going on with that if we wanted any information.”
Most access to media while filming the show seems to be granted via personal favors from producers. But there are a few other exceptions to the rules when a carefully placed piece of media can serve the plot of the show.
For example, on last summer’s season of Bachelor in Paradise, the contestants appeared to have easy access to just one book: Andi Dorfman’s tell-all memoir about her time as The Bachelorette and her subsequent relationship with Josh Murray. Murray was a contestant on that season of Paradise, pitted over and over against Nick Viall, who he’d originally bested in the contest for Andi’s heart. The book, and the emotionally abusive behavior described in it, became the crux of one of the season’s major dramas, following Josh as he pursued single mom Amanda Stanton and continued butting heads with Nick.
On JoJo Fletcher’s 2016 season, contestants coincidentally happened upon some tabloids about her and an ex-boyfriend in a barber shop in Uruguay. They were in English, mysteriously, though they served no purpose in particular other than making JoJo cry and giving the men an opportunity to virtue signal. Other than these expertly timed run-ins with the edge of the reality TV bubble, it seems ABC milks most of its drama out of contestants by setting them into a world apart, and providing little opportunity to step away from intense feelings. It makes sense, and it makes for good TV, but it’s  pretty extreme. It’s essentially a sensory deprivation tank, and Reality Steve’s Stockholm syndrome metaphor doesn’t seem far off.
Fransway said, “The fact that we did not have electronic devices or televisions to pass any down time ended up being one of the best parts of the experience. This is because all of the girls in the house got to know each other so well and so quickly. This is part of the reason why you see us girls developing lifelong friendships after the show.” She added that producers encouraged the girls to come up with games to play during downtime, and her group played a lot of charades.
There’s no air conditioning in the Bachelor mansion (the noise is supposedly too hard to edit around), and contestants are stuck there with nothing to do but drink and talk to each other and think about the Bachelor or Bachelorette. It’s easy to see how people get weird, fast. It’s expensive, isolating, and mind-numbing to be a contestant on The Bachelor or The Bachelorette. And, for the most part, all anyone has to show for it afterward is a verified checkmark on Twitter and a couple new pals. Once in a while, someone finds love, which is nice. Does love feel more special if you know that 30 other people went stir-crazy for two months so you could find it? Possibly, if you’re enough of a sadist to be into that kind of thing.
I appreciate a good opportunity to bond and form summer camp-inspired friendships, but the best way to do that is around a box of obscure, novelty-flavor Oreos and one of those Walmart bargain bin two-for-one John Hughes DVDs.
To ABC: please, out of respect for human life and dignity, have a movie night a week (not Mark Wahlberg). A dance party per day? It’s only decent.

LawBreakers, the competitive sci-fi shooter from Gears of War designer Cliff Bleszinski,  be released on August 15th, developer Boss Key Productions announced today at E3 during the PC Gaming Show. The game  come out on both PC, via Steam, and on PS4, where it  play with improved graphics and smoother performance if you have a PS4 Pro. At one point, LawBreakers was going to be a free-to-play release, but Bleszinski announced last year that the game would switch to a paid model, but with a price tag less than a traditional console game. We now know the retail price  be a modest $29.99.
If you’ve never seen footage of LawBreakers, all you really need to know is that is a mind-bogglingly fast-paced shooter that has players performing high-speed aerial maneuvers, precision aiming, and gravity-manipulating stunts. It’s a role-based shooter, similar to Blizzard’s Overwatch, so you’ll be able to pick a distinct play style and use those skills to try and dominate deathmatch bouts. Boss Key Productions held a closed, one-month beta starting back in April of this year, and it’s planning an open beta to start later this month.
Herman Miller, the furniture brand behind iconic designs like the Aeron chair, has teamed up with designer Yves Béhar for a new suite of smart office furniture launching today at NeoCon in Chicago. Named Live OS (yawn), the system uses sensors that can come preinstalled with Herman Miller desks, or retrofitted to any existing work surface. The sensors collect on-the-fly anonymized data which is then accessed through a dashboard, giving companies insight into how spaces are being utilized.
On fixed-height desks, Live OS only tracks when people are present, but when used with Herman Miller’s sit-to-stand desks, it acts more like a furniture Fitbit. Through an app, people set preferences for things like desk height, which can then be recalled at any connected sit-to-stand desk by tapping a button. Individuals can  set activity goals (i.e., stand for 12 minutes out of every 60). When it’s time to change postures, the desk  prompt the shift via a soft buzz. For those who aren’t used to moving while they work, the app  gradually progress toward set activity goals over a period of weeks.
Herman Miller says the system is encouraging people to move more frequently throughout the work day. "Our initial testing indicates that employees using Live sit-to-stand desks have become more active,” says Ryan Anderson, director of commercialization for Live OS, “transitioning between sitting and standing six times as often as previously recorded.”
It’s well-documented that sitting for the majority of the day comes with health risks, but studies have shown that most users with motorized desks stop switching modes after a few weeks. It’s a problem companies like Stir sought to solve back in 2013 with its Kinetic Desk (which features a screen built into the desk’s surface), but now appear over-designed and inelegant compared to Herman Miller’s Live OS app and sensor system.
Sensors that are bought individually cost $100, and the corresponding software subscription runs $36 per desk per year. The software for sit-to-stand desks with Live OS sensors costs $60 per year. Quartz notes that both these subscription prices lower with volume and longer contracts.
Get up, take a stretch, then check out Live OS in action on the Herman Miller website.
NASA has once again postponed the launch a small rocket from the coast of Virginia tonight, blaming cloudy skies at observation locations. The craft — a Terrier-Improved Malemute sounding rocket — was set to create multicolored clouds high in the sky for the purposes of studying our planet’s ionosphere and aurora, but the mission has been repeatedly scrubbed a short time before launch due to bad weather.
When the launch does eventually go ahead, the rocket  release canisters filled with various chemicals, forming green and red artificial clouds that may be seen along the US East Coast. It’s all part of a plan to study how particles move in the upper atmosphere, which could help us better study the aurorae and the parts of our atmosphere that are electrically charged by solar and cosmic radiation.
Don’t worry, the chemicals the rocket is releasing are in no way toxic to your health. They’re vapor tracers — gases that create visible clouds high in the sky. They’re made of barium, lithium, and tri-methyl aluminum. Those chemicals may not immediately sound familiar but you have likely seen them in action before — in fireworks. And fireworks usually release a whole lot more of these gases than a typical NASA mission, according to the space agency.
NASA has been deploying vapor tracers for a while now using sounding rockets, the small vehicles designed to take instruments to sub-orbital space, though NASA is testing out a new method for getting those vapor tracers into the upper atmosphere. Normally, the tracers were released directly from the rocket’s main payload, but this mission’s rocket is carrying up a specialized contraption called the “multi-canister ampoule ejection system.” After launch, the instrument  fling out multiple canisters filled with the tracers, in order to cover a wider area of the sky.
A total of 10 canisters, each about the size of a soda can,  be deployed about 4 to 5.5 minutes after launch, NASA says. The multicolored clouds they create  give researchers visual cues to help them track the movements of particles at high altitudes and test out if our models of these particle motions are correct. And these clouds should be pretty high up, too, since the canisters  release the tracers between 96 and 124 miles up. If skies are clear, the clouds could be seen from New York to North Carolina.
NASA has been trying to get this sounding rocket up for a while now. The launch was originally scheduled for May 31st, but it has been repeatedly postponed due to bad weather. The space agency  tried on the evening of June 11th and 12th, but launches were canceled, first due to wayward boat within the launch range, and then because visibility was too poor for the rocket’s tracers to be seen from observation stations. Tonight’s launch was slated to get off the ground sometime between 9:04PM and 9:19PM ET, but was scrubbed when the clouds didn’t clear up in time.
Ooblets is an upcoming game that was announced earlier this year at GDC 2017, and at the PC Gaming Show at E3, it debuted a new trailer for the absolutely adorable RPG.
If you missed the original Ooblets announcement, the game is basically a three-way cross between Pokémon, Harvest Moon, and Animal Crossing. As the trailer shows, instead of going out into the world and capturing Ooblets in battle, you’ll nurture and grow them in your garden. Your Ooblets can then battle other Ooblets in turn-based combat, similar to the Pokémon games, and, as the new trailer shows off, you’ll  be able to collect items and decorate your house while interacting with characters in your neighborhood.
But the charm of Ooblets doesn’t just stem from its mix of classic game mechanisms — it’s the style of the game that makes Ooblets great, with everything rendered in colorful pastels and an aesthetic that can only be described as incredibly cute. While Ooblets is getting published by Double Fine, the game is almost entirely the work just two developers: Rebecca Cordingley (who does the art and programming) and Ben Wasser (game design and writing). Cordingley is  running a Patreon for fans who want to more directly support and keep up with the development of the game.
Ooblets is expected to release sometime in 2018 for Xbox One and PC.
The white nationalist alt-right is upset about Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, a game about fighting Nazis who control America in an alternate 1961. No one is surprised by this reaction, and coverage of it is one part schadenfreude, one part reminder that the new white supremacy hasn’t strayed far from its horrific roots. While these reminders are useful, the fact that Bethesda made racists mad is less interesting than watching the entire saga play out in the trailer’s YouTube comment section.
Like many unmoderated comment sections, the Wolfenstein II trailer is the purest argument against the notion that a marketplace of ideas  improve the world. It’s a free-for-all between people who don’t know or care about each other, can’t figure out who’s serious, and are having their entire debate under a video about a man named “B.J. Blazkowicz” who’s been fighting cyborg Nazis since before many of them were born.
Warning: graphic hate speech and offensive language ahead.
The saddest thing about Wolfenstein’s YouTube comments isn’t the offended white supremacists. It’s the fact that in 2017 you can write “I can’t wait to kill some Nazis in a video game” as though that’s a meaningful political stance — which is exactly what a lot of the most popular comments are about. The second saddest thing is that you’ll be proven right by someone named “Pepe Von Europa.”
Of course, the offended white supremacists are there, too, like this one, who appears to find the notion of Nazis losing a war unrealistic.
And a lot of racists are very upset about the fact that the game includes a black female character.
Beyond the overt slurs, you get dogwhistles like “Black Lives Matter overtone,” which is usually code for “acknowledging that racism in America exists.”
A few people were spoiling to take the alt-right / antifa street fights of the past few months online.
But who’s serious here? To some extent it doesn’t matter — an ironic Nazi is still a Nazi. But Poe’s Law is out in full force, so things that seem like obvious mockeries of the alt-right get taken for the real article as well.
Fortunately, some people got on the same Nazi-killing page after a while.
This confusion matters, because people use these comments to gauge the influence of the alt-right, and a parody that falls flat isn’t the same as someone using “it’s a joke” to say something they really believe. When I went to check a comment calling Nazis “a bunch of people you disagree with,” I saw a follow-up apparently disavowing the statement — both posts seem to have disappeared since then, so I’ve followed up with the user on Reddit to clarify.
And not every dumb statement about Nazis is part of a white supremacist resurgence. “Never mind Nazis, what about communism?” isn’t an alt-right position, it’s an embarrassingly canned old-school conservative talking point. And, as another commenter points out, not a great one in video games.
Even the replies from apparent national socialists are more complicated than “Bethesda made the alt-right mad.” Nazis have guilty pleasures, too, I guess.
Sometimes you find a little oasis of meaningful criticism, like this takedown of Nazis having a monopoly on national pride.
And the vast majority of people who responded to Pepe Von Europa found him ridiculous.
But really, the best lesson you can take out of the past days of Wolfenstein commentary is that most people aren’t Nazis, which is a depressingly low bar. Overall, this is a pretty good summary of events.
We’re hoping to get a chance to try Wolfenstein II at E3. Hopefully we’ll find fighting the Nazis there a lot more satisfying.
Uber’s board of directors met Sunday to mull over how to reverse the ride-hail company’s slow-motion implosion. Board members voted to unanimously adopt all the recommendations from a recent investigation into Uber’s culture of pervasive sexism and harassment. They  discussed the fate of two of the company’s top executives, CEO Travis Kalanick and senior vice president of business Emil Michael, in light of recent reports about the handling of the medical records of a woman in India who was raped by an Uber driver. (Michael is now leaving the company, while Kalanick is reportedly taking a leave of absence.)
By all accounts, Uber is in turmoil. No major investments have been announced since 2016, when Saudi Arabia said it would provide an historic $3.5 billion cash infusion. Morale within the company is at its nadir. Drivers are growing increasingly dissatisfied with their treatment. And a lawsuit from Waymo (neé Google) alleging the theft of its self-driving car secrets is still barreling toward to a jury trial.
Uber no longer has a COO, CBO, CFO, CMO or SVP of Eng and may temporarily not have a CEO.From autonomous cars...to autonomous company
But does any of it matter? Thanks to a torrent of leaks, the tech press has been breathlessly covering all that’s going on inside the company. It’s equal parts morbid and fascinating: a company that came to embody the disruption of Silicon Valley, brought low by its own hubris. Mike Judge, the showrunner of HBO’s Silicon Valley, couldn’t have written it any better. But the idea that the company is on the edge of dissolution seems wildly off base.
According to its most recent financial statements, Uber’s growth continues to outpace its losses, despite those losses seeming fairly huge on the surface. The company lost $2.8 billion in 2016, minus its misadventures in China — which is more than any startup in history. This has led some industry analysts to predict that Uber  never break even and  eventually fizzle out. But the company  doubled its gross bookings to $20 billion in 2016, and its net revenue (excluding China) was up to $6.8 billion. In short, the company continues to grow despite all its failings.
Of course, a majority of the most damaging news about Uber — from its flirtations with the Trump administration to revelations about its various secret surveillance programs (“Greyball,” “Hell,” etc.) occurred this year, and we haven’t seen the company’s 2017 financial statements yet. But Uber’s supporters predict that the company  continue to grow in spite of its many stumbles this year.
Bradley Tusk, an advisor at Uber, just penned an op-ed that declares “the reset has finally come.” The bad apples have been flushed out, Kalanick is considering taking a leave of absence to spend time with his family (which has just suffered a horrible tragedy), and the company is ready to push past its many scandals, he argues.
“No matter how bad the PR gets for Uber, consumers don't seem to care,” Tusk told The Verge in an email, “and Lyft still can't catch up.”
It’s not for lack of trying, though: Lyft continues to capitalize on Uber’s slow implosion by locking down a series of deals with major tech and auto companies. Its image as the safe, friendly alternative to Uber has helped it score a number of crucial investments for a valuation of around $7 billion. But compared to Uber, Lyft still pales in size and scope. The company still only operates in the US, while Uber is in 600 cities around the world. And Lyft’s staff is a tiny fraction of Uber’s: 1,600 employees, compared to Uber’s global workforce of 12,000.
Harry Campbell, a former Uber driver and blogger at The Rideshare Guy, agreed that as long as the company’s main product, its ride-hailing app, continues to outperform rival apps, the company  continue to dominate the market. “All of the bad press Uber is getting may hurt morale internally and complicate short-term efforts but riders are still getting from point A to point B safely and for a low price,” Campbell said. “Few riders even mention Uber's problems [even though] I'm sure they've read about it on the news. Most of their interactions with the company happen with its drivers.”
The #DeleteUber campaign from earlier this year exposed the company’s problems with attracting and retaining new users, but it  exposed the limits of consumer backlash. People are angry these days, but there’s only so much outrage to go around. Lyft saw a brief uptick in the number of new app downloads, but the company hasn’t been able to surpass Uber in any meaningful way.
“Consumers care about themselves,” Tusk said. “If the iPhone is amazing but Apple is awful, people don't give a shit.”
The real risks for Uber  happen internally with employee morale, recruiting, and partnerships — effects that won't be seen for years to come. Investors and partners are the ones who  be affected most by the long-term prospects of this company, and right now the return on those investments appears to be headed in the wrong direction.
“Chaos is bad for organizations, but it isn’t unusual,” said Evan Rawley, an associate professor of business at Columbia University. “Consider a firm that is the target of a hostile acquisition, or a firm that bungles a major acquisition, or a firm where a CEO dies unexpectedly. Those are all very chaotic situations. If the firm has a dominate market position chaos doesn’t necessarily impair their ability to dominate.”
“In the case of Uber,” Rawley continued, “the striking thing, to me at least, is that they need to adjust their strategy fairly urgently or they are going to have to go back to the capital markets. If they go to the capital markets in disarray, there  be a price to be paid.”
To be sure, it’s a neat trick — simultaneously imploding and growing — but it’s probably not unique to Uber. Consumers read the news, but they tend to make purchasing decisions based on their own immediate needs. Sure, Uber may be a cesspool of sexism and harassment, but the rides are cheap, thanks to Uber’s ingness to continue to subsidize trips to the tune of billions of dollars a year.
Michelle Thorpe, 43, is an advertising director from Des Moines, Iowa. She told The Verge that she prefers Uber because it’s easier and cheaper than a cab. To her, safety — not corporate intrigue — is the most important issue when considering which means of transportation to use. To that end, she sometimes screenshots the app after hailing a ride so she can share it with whomever is expecting her.
“The news is so sensationalized these days,” she told The Verge. “I only take in a small portion of what I hear, and with a grain of salt. I just don't put too much into it to be honest.”
Tomorrow, Uber plans to publicize the recommendations of the law firm it hired to investigate former engineer Susan Fowler’s allegations of sexism and harassment. Many people noted that her story, which went viral in February and helped kick off this entire crisis at Uber, was nothing unusual in Silicon Valley. To be sure, sexism, harassment, bullying, and other inappropriate behaviors are rampant in almost every sector of corporate America. Fowler’s move to go public was very important, and hopefully  encourage other people to speak out when they see wrongdoing.
What are the results? A handful of people were fired from Uber. Others left on their own accord. And the company  make a big show of changing its culture. But these types of changes can’t happen overnight. And as long as Uber continues to attract new users and expand into new markets, should it really “give a shit?”
You can now check if your neighbors have installed solar panels on their rooftops, thanks to a new feature in Google’s Project Sunroof. The free online tool has been around for a couple years, allowing users to check whether installing solar panels could cut their energy bill. Now, if you zoom in on the satellite map, a red dot  indicate homes and buildings that have solar panels.
Project Sunroof launched in 2015, even expanding outside the US earlier this year. The tool tells you how much sunlight hits your rooftop, how much you could save by installing solar panels, and gives you information on local panel providers to do the installation. The new feature now tells you whether your neighbors are already harnessing the power of the Sun.
The information is gathered by a machine learning algorithm that’s trained to recognize solar panels from satellite images. For now, the information is available on 60 million buildings in the US, but Google wants to add 40 million buildings in the next few years, according to The Atlantic.
The goal of the new feature is to encourage more people to take the plunge. Studies have shown that people are more likely to install solar panels if their neighbors have done so, especially if the panels are visible from the street. That information is now just one click away.
Adam West died on June 9th, and for Batman fans, his passing stings. West made a tremendous impact on comics and pop culture, embodying a character who’s so ubiquitous, he’s arguably the most important superhero of the modern era. In 2017, it’d be a struggle to find younger fans who’d claim him as their Batman. Comics culture has spent the last few decades running away from the camp that defined the Caped Crusader in West’s 1968 TV show. But as Bob Chipman argues in his latest video essay, it’s possible the version of Batman you view as definitive wouldn’t exist without Adam West, and fans should hold his contribution to the character’s history in higher regard.
I have a confession to make: I’ve actually watched very little of the ‘60s Batman series. What I know and love about the show comes from cultural pass-around. Fans my age talk about the show with a kind of cringing affection. For years, things like the Shark Repellent Bat Spray and the Batusi (which West claimed he invented) elicited a kind of “Man, aren’t you glad Batman is better than that these days?” response, as we held up Batman: The Animated Series and The Dark Knight as the gold standard for Batman stories.
The problem is, we were wrong. While Batman: TAS and The Dark Knight are excellent, the widespread idea that the grim and gritty, essentially fascist Batman is the one true version of the character is both tiresome and destructive. Propping up a deeply disturbed costumed man who beats poor people to a pulp, and claiming him as the ür-superhero, is pretty messed up. And I say this as a Batman fan. Recent work on the character hasn’t shied away from the contradictions of Batman’s character. Tom King’s Rebirth run has consistently shown Batman, as awesome as he is, to be a scared little boy in a costume, struggling to keep it together.
Adam West’s Batman sidesteps that entire concept in a way that present-day fans should see more often. West is straitlaced and silly in the role because comic book stories lend themselves to silliness, even when they’re trying to be taken seriously. There’s nothing wrong with that. Just take DC’s Flintstones comic series, which is simultaneously thoughtful and hilarious. (Seriously. You need to read that book.) West was fun, funny, and earnest — three words rarely associated with Batman these days — and older audiences could consistently get a kick out of his wit, while kids came away actually learning something.
What’s more, the show itself was subversive and smart, and it doesn’t get enough credit for, say, the way the show embraced the Flower Power movement at the height of the Vietnam War. And without ‘60s Batman, we wouldn’t have characters like Barbara Gordon Batgirl, who’s as important to the Batman mythos as Robin and the Joker.
Thankfully, appreciation for the West era is resurging. There was the Batman ‘66 comic series, with characters who recently crossed over into the Wonder Woman ‘77 series. There’s the animated Return of the Caped Crusaders, which featured the voice talents of the surviving cast. And then there’s The Lego Batman Movie, which did everything in its power to rib the grimdark version of the Dark Knight while  welcoming in camp and essential ideas like the Bat-Family.
We need more of this lighter take on Batman. The character looms large in a media landscape that’s positively drowning in superheroes, and for too long, there was one reigning interpretation of him. While Adam West was certainly typecast in the role for far too long, he represents a lighthearted approach to Batman that’s become refreshingly different in this day and age. It’s time to give him his due.
Atari has begun teasing a new product called the Ataribox, but right now, the company is being so vague that we have next to no idea what it is.
A website for the Ataribox first surfaced on Friday, holding a short teaser video that describes the device as, “a brand new Atari product years in the making.” It shows a device styled after the company’s retro consoles, with fake woodgrain and slatted black plastic on top. And that’s it.
The website for the Ataribox is so bare-bones that it almost looks fake. Official Atari channels don’t link to it at all, and the site appears to have been made with the free website builder Wix.
But a representative for Atari confirmed to The Verge that the Ataribox is real. However, an announcement isn’t planned just yet, so it sounds like the product won’t be unveiled at E3 this week, despite the timing of this teaser video.
There’s a ton of reason to be skeptical of anything Atari. The company is far from its glory days and, at this point, mostly just republishes classic titles like Rollercoaster Tycoon. Atari  licenses its name out for other companies to slap on their products, which is why an Atari-branded smart dog collar was announced last year.
For the Ataribox, we’re told that Atari itself is involved in its creation. It sounds like a partner is  working on the device in some way, but the partnership is said to involve more than just licensing the Atari name.
That makes the product sound a bit more intriguing, even if it’s still hard to imagine an exciting Atari device in 2017. It’s possible we could be looking at a new mini console — like the NES Classic — that plays retro games, but Atari partners already publish a bunch of these. So if this is something new, it’s not clear what Atari has in mind. Either way, Atari has a tough road ahead to make the Ataribox stand out.
In a first in the country, a Pakistani man has been sentenced to death for making “blasphemous” remarks on Facebook, according to prosecutors’ comments reported on by The Washington Post.
Although the exact words used are unclear, 30-year-old Taimoor Raza was accused of making negative remarks about religious figures, including the prophet Muhammad. The Guardian reports that the comments came up in a conversation about Islam with a man who, unbeknownst to Raza, was a government agent. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan told the publication that Raza was one of 15 arrested by the government counterterrorism department last year on accusations of blasphemy.
In April, The Washington Post reported on the case of a Saudi man who was sentenced to death for comments about the prophet Muhammad made on Twitter.
Raza’s sentence represents an escalation in what’s already a major crackdown on social media and internet use in Pakistan. According to a Human Rights Watch report released last month, the government sent a text message to millions recently asking them to report blasphemy on social media. The country’s interior minister soon after ordered government officials to take action against “all those dishonoring the Pakistan Army through social media.”
“The Pakistani government’s crackdown on online expression  put dissenting voices at a greater risk in an already toxic environment,” Asia director at Human Rights Watch Brad Adams said at the time.

The Tuesday after Memorial Day weekend, Roambee co-founder Vidya Subramanian got to work at 7AM to find his company’s office in Santa Clara, California, ransacked. The burglars had made such a mess that it was hard to tell at first what was missing. There were monitors and other computer equipment gone, and the entire operations room had been tossed for anything that might fetch a good resale price.
“They’d jimmied the lock on just this one room,” Subramanian says. “It’s the room where we charge our devices, and needless to say there’s computer equipment everywhere, so they thought it was a good place to steal stuff.”
It seemed like a routine burglary, a midnight heist that left no obvious leads. Only one in eight burglaries are cleared nationwide, and there was no reason to think Subramanian’s office would be one of the lucky ones — until he took a closer look at what the burglar had taken. Two of the missing crates were full of his company's product: a device about the size of two cigarette packs, used to monitor GPS, Bluetooth, and altitude signals. Typically, they’re slipped into sensitive shipments like a pallet of pharmaceuticals, ensuring it isn’t tampered with as it moves from port to port. Subramanian thinks the intruders must have mistaken the bright yellow gadget for an external phone charger, not realizing what the device really did.
The burglars had stolen two boxes full of tracking devices. “At that point,” Subramanian says, “the light bulb went off, and we went into recover mode.”
The devices were fully charged and communicating with the home server at intervals. Roambee was able to tighten up that interval remotely — from once an hour to every five minutes — and get two detectives to track down the new lead. With a box of active homing devices leading the way, it was only a matter of time before they tracked down the haul.
It’s a frightening story for would-be thieves, but still a rare one. Nearly all electronic devices are now inextricably tied to the internet, often broadcasting a continuous and traceable electromagnetic trail — but the overall rate of electronics theft hasn’t declined much as a result. Phone-tracking systems on iOS and Android have made far riskier to steal smartphones — and theft attempts have plummeted as a result — but so far, smartphones are the exception. And there’s no equivalent drop in the theft of laptops and other electronics.
Similar anti-theft measures do exist for laptops, but they’re not as precise as trackers like Roambee or as widely adopted as phone-tracking features. Laptop-tracking programs usually rely on the internet, and only work when the computer is connected. That makes the signal more erratic, and gives criminals a lot more time to wipe the device. Even when it works, it only leads police to an IP address, which can be difficult to translate into a physical location.
There are  more reliable methods that have yet to gain traction. A tracking company called Latent Wireless targets laptops’ Wi-Fi signatures, creating a unique fingerprint based on the Wi-Fi networks stored on a given device. A computer’s Wi-Fi system is constantly sending out that list, trying to connect to familiar networks, which makes it easy for Latent to sense if a nearby computer is using a given signature. Once the right signature has been located, a directional antenna can be used to sniff out the source of the signal, a process that’s far more accurate than internet-based trackers. But so far, such systems haven’t gotten much traction with users or manufacturers.
Getting a specific location is particularly important for legal reasons. For police, most of this information is used as raw material for a warrant — convincing a judge that there’s probable cause to search a particular location for the stolen device. Those warrants require as specific a location as possible, which usually means pinning down a particular locker or storage unit, rather than just a particular block or building. In those cases, even consumer-grade GPS can fall short.
In Roambee’s case, the GPS unit led police to a storage facility in Oakland, California, where the Bluetooth signal was enough to point to a specific storage unit. When police looks inside, they found stolen gear from Roambee’s office and other burglaries dating as far back as January. Wednesday evening, Subramanian got a call from detectives saying everything but a few monitors had been recovered.
“They were super excited,” he says. “How often do you get somebody who steals a tracker?”
Samsung just announced that the unlocked North American version of the Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus are now available through more retailers, including Amazon and Target, along with some enterprise distributers. The best part, though, is that some retailers are offering steep discounts on the unlocked phone out of the gate.
Best Buy and B&H have the unlocked S8 64GB for $624.99, a phone that is listed for $756 at Verizon. Both stores  offer an unlocked S8 Plus for $724.99, a handset that goes for around $850 at carriers. Amazon hasn't listed the new domestic unlocked models yet, but I would expect it to match those prices. Best Buy's deal should run all week, but I don't know how long B&H  keep the price that low.
The domestic unlocked model has full support for CDMA and GSM-based networks, so it should work well on any major US carrier. International and dual-sim international versions are  available for slightly higher prices. The phones are  be free of the usually app detritus that carriers love to add, and Samsung usually is able to get OS updates to its unlocked models faster than to its carrier versions.
Over the last few years, Facebook has developed a well-deserved reputation as a copycat. Last August, Instagram introduced its take on Snapchat Stories, and the feature was then introduced throughout Facebook’s family of products. The company has previously “adopted” features from competitors — the like from Tumblr, the check-in from Foursquare, the marketplace from Craigslist, and live-streaming video from Meerkat and Twitter. What other services might the company copy within its own family of apps?
We’ve spent the past six months collecting patent applications that suggest bold new paths for the company. Some of these applications allude to radically new features — but many of them suggest Facebook is still up to its copycat tactics.
Facebook won’t say which of these features, if any,  result in a new product. A company spokesperson says Facebook files more than 1,000 patent applications every year, and most of the ones listed below are still in the application stage. “We often seek patents for technology we never implement, and patents should not be taken as an indication of future plans,” a spokeswoman said.
But the patent applications do hint at where Facebook might be heading.
The Facebook dating app: Patent No. 9,609,072
In March, Facebook was granted a patent for a system that would allow it to build a dating service into the site. The patent describes a way for Facebook to identify friends of friends who might be single, based on “other commonalities or shared experiences.” When you see someone you like, Facebook would let you ask for an introduction.
Facebook might  let you seek introductions to people with whom you do not have a friend-of-a-friend connection. The patent suggests a system for showing you potential matches based on shared experiences you select — the examples in the patent are “twins,” “cancer,” and “phone type” — and allowing you to filter your search by age, location, and other constraints.
Some elements of the patent, which was filed in 2014, sound as if they are simply describing Facebook’s current integration with Tinder. It makes several references to integrations with a “third-party service” and a “dating service.” It  suggests new avenues for Facebook, including one in which it offers users unspecified “rewards” for participating in the dating service. The patent  describes a way in which Facebook could show you possible matches both from Facebook and the dating service — potentially giving you access to Facebook’s entire user base, even if they don’t have a Tinder profile.
Anonymous messaging: Patent No. 20170111327
Facebook’s focus on making you use your real identity on the service is both controversial and lucrative. It’s  created an opening for countless apps focused on anonymous posting and messaging — companies like Secret, Yik Yak, and Whisper have raised tens of millions of dollars on the promise of building a secret social profile.
Those companies ultimately failed, but that hasn’t stopped Facebook from exploring the feature. The company filed an application for a patent earlier this year for a system that lets users establish anonymous communication between one another, and maintain that channel so they can continue their conversation without ever learning the identity of the person they’re talking with.
The anonymous communication described in the application is location-based: it allows you to contact people anonymously only if they are within a certain distance of you. In this, it closely resembles Highlight, an app that showed you limited information about people in your area and invited you to message them. (Highlight was not anonymous, though it optionally obscured many identifying details about the user.)
If you got along with the person you were anonymously messaging with, Facebook would allow you to send a traditional friend request, according to the patent. Or you could block them.
Highlight flopped, but there was a germ of an idea in there. Imagine walking into a crowded conference for your job and being able to see what you had in common with the people in the room — it made a certain amount of sense. And we might one day see something like it in Facebook.
The Facebook delivery app: Patent No. 20170116562
Peer-to-peer delivery is an idea that has intrigued companies from Postmates to Uber. Facebook has considered it as well. In this patent application, the company describes a way of turning shoppers into delivery agents.
Imagine you’ve stepped into a bakery to make a purchase. Across town, a neighbor places an order at the bakery. Facebook pings you asking if you’d like to make a delivery. You say yes, the baker hands you the order, and you deliver it to the remote customer. The patent suggests that you and the other customer would communicate via Facebook Messenger, possibly with your names obscured to protect your privacy. Upon delivery, the patent says you would receive a “reward,” presumably in the form of money.
Facebook describes all sorts of benefits that we might derive from such a system, including environmental ones (reducing car trips) and retail ones (stores can package fewer items for display, saving on costs for materials). “The combination of a merchant e-commerce system with a social networking system’s information and infrastructure may allow users to make repeated purchases easily, and may allow a social networking system or merchant to utilize user purchase information to reach out to users with marketing messages based on their behavior,” the company writes. Hope you like push notifications!
Emails in the News Feed: Patent No. 20170134329
Patent No. 20170134329
In November 2010, Facebook gave everyone an email address — their username, at facebook.com. But few people used it, and the company retired its email service in 2014.
A patent application filed in May suggests email could be coming back to Facebook — and you’ll find it in the News Feed. The patent appears geared toward Facebook at Work, the enterprise version of the social network that the company released last year. It describes a system in which the News Feed includes both normal stories from colleagues and external emails.
Diagrams show a carousel of emails that might appear inside the News Feed the same way the horizontal-scrolling “people you may know” module appears today. The applicationsuggests you would be able to respond to emails directly within the feed.
In addition to putting email in a new context, Facebook suggests it can improve on the current system by ranking emails by their importance. Other services do this to various degrees — Gmail’s category tabs, for example, or Outlook’s priority inbox. But Facebook suggests it might have more powerful signals to use to filter the inbox. Factors could include “past interactions of the user with emails, interactions of connections of users with emails, interactions of colleagues (based on org chart) with emails, affinity between sender and the user, and so on.”
Predicting your emotions: Patent No. 20170147202
Patent No. 20170147202
We’re increasingly comfortable allowing machines to alter our text based on input. Install Gboard on your phone, for example, and it  suggest relevant emoji for you automatically based on what you’re typing. The iOS keyboard  suggest words based on your typing habits.
This patent application describes a system in which Facebook analyzes your emotional state based on a number of factors, including your typing speed, the words you use, and even the amount of pressure you’re placing on the keyboard. (It  takes note of the accelerometer, which is useful if your emotions have led you to throw your phone.)
Once it has determined your emotional state, Facebook then suggests a new font and other formatting changes for your message, according to the patent. In one example from the patent application, someone has sent the text message: “Why does Kevin always have to be such a contrarian?” Facebook modifies the kerning — the spacing between letters — of the word “contrarian,” which makes it look as if the writer is emphasizing it. In another word, a simple text of “CONGRATULATIONS!” is blown up into a larger font than the message preceding it.
Boredom detector: Patent No. 20170126825
One of the most troublesome things about Facebook users, from Facebook’s perspective, is that they sometimes tire of the News Feed and click away to other apps or websites — where they are generally much harder for Facebook to profit from. Enter the boredom detector, a patent application filed in May. It describes a system in which Facebook determines that you are dissatisfied with what it is showing you, and quickly reshuffles the content to tempt you to stay.
First, Facebook measures the length of time between when you started scrolling through the feed and the last time you stopped. The longer you’ve gone without finding something that makes your thumb stop, the likelier it is that you’re bored. Then Facebook takes it a step further. The patent describes a system that tracks your eye position using your device’s camera, and watches to see when you lose focus on the glass for a certain period of time.
For all the detection technology involved, Facebook’s solution to boredom is rather humdrum: it takes a fresh look at all the items it could show you and re-ranks them. (It  makes room for any new items that have been posted since you began scrolling.) How users  feel about the company routinely tracking their eye movements, however, is an open question.
The hand-tracking virtual keyboard: Patent No. 20170147082
Patent No. 20170147082
In 2016 Facebook revealed Building 8, a secretive new lab designed to build new hardware. At F8, we heard about two of Building 8’s projects: a brain-to-computer interface, and an ambitious program to enable us to “hear” based on vibrations we feel on our skin.
A patent application filed in May suggests a fascinating new hardware project for Facebook: a device that tracks your hand movements to enable input, such as on a keyboard. Drawings submitted for the patent show a person sitting on a chair, typing in the air — with their movements resulting in keyboard input on a wall-mounted television several feet away. Another drawing shows the hand moving over a puck-like device placed on a table, which interprets the movements and broadcasts them to the television.
According to the application, the device projects light onto the user’s hand, and interprets its movements based on changes to the light. User interfaces that track the movements of our hands have been a sci-fi staple going back to Minority Report — and it seems like Facebook is now exploring that terrain as well.
Facebook takes on the Chromecast: Patent No. 20170111689
Patent No. 20170111689
Facebook’s intention to replace TV — and siphon away TV advertising dollars — is often stated by its executives. But what if existing TV could be made to feel more like Facebook? That’s the idea raised by this patent application, which proposes a system in which Facebook generates a hybrid video stream for TV consisting of the program you’re watching alongside content from Facebook. That could include the News Feed, individual posts, another video stream, chat messages, or ads, according to the patent. The central feature is what the patent calls a “social TV dongle” — a device that plugs into the TV and then enables new interactions with Facebook’s software on your phone. It looks like Facebook’s take on the Chromecast.
There’s a graveyard full of startups that have tried to make TV more “social,” usually by attempting to build standalone networks for TV fans where they could discuss what they were watching. (Does anyone remember GetGlue?) The apps crashed and burned when it turned out that most people don’t want to use a standalone TV social network while they watch — many of them simply browse Facebook.
That’s one reason a Facebook take on social TV feels more interesting than most, should it ever see the light of day. Facebook released a TV app in March. It seems plausible that the app might adopt features similar to the ones described in this patent over time.
Sony might not have a new console to unveil at E3 2017 this year (unlike Microsoft), but that doesn’t mean that its going to be a quiet year for PlayStation. Sony has announced tons of upcoming games for the PlayStation 4 over the last year, but we’ve yet to really see any gameplay footage or get some concrete information on any of them.
Not even counting any new surprises, expect to get more information on games like Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, The Last of Us Part II, the upcoming God of War sequel, Insomniac's Spider-Man game, Knack 2, maybe even Square-Enix’s Final Fantasy VII Remake. Plus, Sony has once again obtained exclusivity on DLC for Destiny 2, so expect that to make an appearance as well. (For what its worth, Hideo Kojima has said that his upcoming PS4 exclusive Death Stranding  not be making an appearance at E3 this year.)
And that’s just we we know about going in, and it’s almost guaranteed that Sony has a few new surprises up its sleeve. It’s E3! Anything could happen.
Want to keep up with the action as it happens? Here’s where to watch:
HOW TO WATCH:
Starting time: San Francisco: 6PM / New York: 9PM / London: 2AM (June 13th) / Moscow: 4AM (June 13th) / Beijing: 9AM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 10AM (June 13th) / Sydney: 11AM (June 13th)
Live streaming: Watch Sony’s live stream on the PlayStation Twitch channel. Alternatively, you can watch it on the company’s official PlayStation YouTube channel.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for more PlayStation stories and E3 news throughout the week.
Official Police Business is a column and newsletter by reporter Matt Stroud about new developments in police technology and the way it’s changing law enforcement — think body cameras, cell-site simulators, surveillance systems, and electroshock weapons. Sign up to receive OPB in your email at officialpolicebusiness.com, or check for it here at The Verge.
Late last month, The New York Times published a piece, headlined “Hollywood-Style Heroism Is Latest Trend in Police Videos,” about body camera footage that depicts police officers as paragons of bravery. One video, from the Hamden Police Department in Connecticut, showed an officer pulling a troubled man away from the edge of a building. Another, from the Topeka Police Department in Kansas, showed an officer rescuing a drowning boy from a pond. These videos were not released at the request of journalists or civilians hoping to shed light on police activity. They were instead released by police employees as counter programming — a way to characterize cops positively when tales of “bad apples” overtook the news cycle. “The chief talked to me about how Topeka was really getting beat up in the news with some shootings, some homicides,” an officer told the Times. “Topeka really needed a good story.”
Cops deserve credit when they do good, but these positive police videos emerge as states work to keep less flattering videos hidden.
North Carolina, for example, passed legislation last year excluding body camera video from the public record, so footage is not available through North Carolina’s Public Records Act. That means civilians have no right to view police recordings in the Tar Heel state unless their voice or image was captured in the video.
Louisiana  exempts body camera video from public records laws.
South Carolina  only release body camera footage to criminal defendants and the subjects of recordings.
Kansas classifies body camera video as “criminal investigation documents” available only when investigations are closed. The Topeka Police Department may have wanted positive public relations with the release of its pond rescue video, but if a news outlet had requested that video through Kansas’ Open Records Act, that request would’ve likely been denied.
This opaque state of affairs was not how body cameras were originally pitched. Body cameras have been available to police since at least 2007 when Steve Ward, a salesman for Taser International, broke off from the company, now known as Axon Enterprise. He then formed his own body camera company, Vievu. But body cameras weren’t considered a necessary police tool until the aftermath of Michael Brown’s killing by police officer Darren Wilson in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014.
As people around the world tried to piece together what occurred in Ferguson between a dead man and a living officer, civilians and police alike began to understand the benefits of body cameras. Representatives of Black Lives Matter called for more body cameras alongside major police organizations. It was a virtually unanimous agreement at first: body cams would hold both police and civilians accountable. But there was a pact underlying those mutual calls — a tacit agreement that taxpayer-purchased body camera videos should be available to taxpayers.
That pact was best explained by police leaders themselves. In a 2014 report from the Police Executive Research Forum, the group’s executive director, Chuck Wexler, wrote that “body-worn camera video footage should be made available to the public upon request not only because the videos are public records but  because doing so enables police departments to demonstrate transparency and openness in their interactions with members of the community.”
The report, released by one of the most respected law enforcement groups in the world, made it clear that body cameras could help police leaders build trust with the communities they served by documenting both the good and the bad. Flattering videos would have to be released along with unflattering ones, videos that exonerated cops along with videos that forced indictments. Transparency was worth it for everyone: civilians would be on camera if they failed to behave themselves in front of cops, and cops would be on camera if they did anything illegal or potentially criminal.
For a while, the rules governing how this would work — how police departments would build policies to let the public view videos and feel comfortable about having a bunch of cops act as roving surveillance cameras — were written by local legislators governing cities. There were good policies and bad, with some cities making it easier than others for civilians to obtain police video. (The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the tech policy group Upturn created a helpful policy scorecard to track which cities were doing what.) But as more police departments spent millions of dollars on body cameras and video storage, police unions, district attorney associations, and other law enforcement lobbying groups began to push for statewide laws restricting transparency. North Carolina, Louisiana, South Carolina, and Kansas, among others, have now instituted counter-transparency body camera laws. Even Missouri — home of Ferguson — classified body camera footage as a “closed record.” If another shooting like the one in Ferguson occurred, and the shooting officer was wearing a body camera, it’s almost certain the footage would be withheld from the public until after a trial.
Other states are now  looking to make body cam video extremely difficult to obtain.
In Pennsylvania, the state Senate recently passed Senate bill 560, which would mirror North Carolina’s opaqueness, and allow police to record inside civilian homes without restriction. It just passed the state House.
In Massachusetts, bill S. 1307 would mandate that body camera video “be kept confidential absent a court order.” It has been referred to the state Senate’s Joint Committee on Public Safety and Homeland Security.
Arkansas legislators made a smart decision by letting HB 1248 — a bill that would have made body camera video a “confidential record” — die in the state house, at least for now. If Arkansas residents — and citizens all over the country — don’t pay attention, it’s likely that bills like this one  reemerge. Then not only  body camera footage strengthen the surveillance state and fuel facial recognition and predictive policing systems, it’ll  be impossible for civilians to view it — which, for civilians, is the primary reason body cameras made sense in the first place.
It’s nice that body cameras have given police the opportunity to show the public when officers act heroically, but that’s not their core function. Their core function is to monitor police activity, and to provide public documentation when it’s needed. If that documentation shows police in a positive light, that’s wonderful — let it be known. But police departments shouldn’t be able to push out positive footage while burying the negative. As much as police might like to think otherwise, there are plenty of “bad apples” working inside the nation’s 18,000-plus police departments. Body camera footage should help to remove some of them from the bunch.
All over the country, state legislatures are making that difficult as they push to shield body camera footage from public records laws. That push may set up further opportunities for police departments in Hamden, Topeka, and elsewhere to tell “a good story” about their officers instead of a bad one. But for the public, the larger story isn’t a good one at all.

There are countless peer-to-peer mobile payment processing services nowadays, but few are as “instant” as they appear. Even though your Venmo app might say you’ve sent a friend the $15 you owe for that shared cab ride, it  take a day or two for the friend to withdraw and process the cash out to their bank account.
Zelle, a new payment processing network backed by more than 30 US banks, aims to make that process instantaneous. After six years in development, major banks are beginning to roll out the first stage of Zelle to let customers send and receive payments for free — regardless of bank affiliation — and allow instant withdrawals. Based on the Zelle website, it seems the intent is to process casual transactions, much like what Venmo and Square Cash are generally used for.
Backed by banks like Chase, Citibank, Bank of America, TD Bank, and Wells Fargo, Zelle doesn’t yet have a standalone app though it is forthcoming within the year, according to The New York Times. For now, Zelle acts as the backend network powering these individual partners to allow cash transfers between banks. You can continue using your bank’s app or online banking site to pay and receive funds, so the app component doesn’t seem necessary unless you prefer the social network-esque aspect of Venmo. According to the company, peers can send and receive money using just an email address or phone number. That  puts it in direct competition with Apple’s newly announced iMessage peer-to-peer payments for iOS 11.
Zelle is rolling out now to customers with a US-based bank account (different banks  begin to offer it at different times throughout June.) The full list of partners can be found here.
Microsoft has finally taken the lid off the Xbox One X — formerly known as Project Scorpio — and the company isn't shy about calling its new game machine “the world’s most powerful console.”
The One X is packing some serious firepower, with a custom eight-core AMD processor clocked at 2.3GHz, 12GB of GDDR5 RAM, and a 6-teraflop GPU with 40 compute units. Microsoft is proudly pointing out how the One X can support 4K HDR gameplay. (While Microsoft is tossing around the phrase “true 4K” a lot, apparently only some games  actually run in true native 4K, as opposed to checkerboard rendering.)
So how does Xbox One X compare to its biggest competitor: Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro, which  be a year old by the time One X hits shelves?
Related
When it comes to hard specifications, Microsoft has Sony soundly beaten here. The Xbox One X has a faster processor, a more powerful GPU, and more memory than even the PlayStation 4 Pro. Specifically, the Xbox One X has 6 teraflops (which, in very basic terms, is how many calculations it can perform per second), compared to 4.2 teraflops on the PlayStation 4 Pro. And the extra boost in RAM — 12GB vs. 8GB — is  pretty significant, at least on paper.
But without some direct comparison of games on the two consoles, it’s hard to say how much the extra speed and power  really translate to meaningful improvement in performance. At the end of the day, both consoles claim to be able to offer 4K HDR gaming. Based on that criterion, Sony has a $100 price advantage over the One X with the $399 Pro, which isn’t exactly chump change.
Additionally, it’s worth considering a final piece of the equation: games. Microsoft showed off variety of new Xbox One exclusives at E3 this year, including Crackdown 3, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, Forza Motorsport 7, and a passel of smaller indie titles. But compared to Sony’s upcoming slate of God of War 4, The Last of Us II, Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, Death Stranding, Detroit: Become Human, Days Gone, and Insomniac’s Spider-Man game, there’s still a long way to go before there’s a compelling lineup of games that you’ll need an Xbox to play.
To help you make your decision, here’s how Microsoft and Sony’s latest hardware fare when put head-to-head, along with the how powerful they are relative to the original hardware. (Just for fun, the Nintendo Switch is  thrown into the mix, and it’s unsurprisingly almost comically underpowered in comparison.)
Google’s Gboard is already one of the best and smartest ways to communicate on a phone, given its direct link to Google search and all the company’s artificial intelligence-powered predictive and natural language capabilities. Now, with an update rolling out to the Android version of the app today, Gboard is getting even smarter. Google’s keyboard now recognizes hand-drawn emoji and  now predict full phrases instead of just the next possible word. The changes are expected to come to the iOS version at a later date.
This is all the work of Google’s ongoing AI research, which at a high level helps improve the company’s software by churning through mounds of data and learning over time using training techniques like deep learning and reinforcement learning. Thanks to tools like Quick, Draw!, a web game that guessed what you doodled on screen even when it was terribly drawn, Google has been able to make sizable advances in the image recognition department. This manifests itself in actual consumer products when Gboard is able to observe your crude drawing of a cat and suggest an accurate emoji to replace it.
The company’s AI research  helps improve Gboard’s natural language understanding. That way, when you type a phrase like “looking forward,” Google understands the context and  now suggest “to it” or “to seeing.” Past versions of Gboard were only capable of suggesting possible next words using predictive engines, so this is a subtle but powerful step up.
Alongside those enhancements, Google says Gboard’s search function  now show more results and  more easily link out to other apps like Google Maps and YouTube when appropriate. Google is  adding support for more languages — you’ll now get suggestions and swipable gesture typing for Azerbaijani (Iran), Dhivehi, French (Belgium), Hawaiian, Maori, and Samoan. Brand-new languages being added with the update include Dzongkha, Ewe, Navajo, Tsonga, and K'iche', though you’ll only be able to type in those languages and not use any of the more powerful AI-assisted features.
It’s been a month of gaming announcements for Microsoft with Game Pass, its new Xbox One game subscription service, and its newest (and smallest) games console, Xbox One X. Though the Xbox One X comes with a 1TB hard drive, the forthcoming slate of new titles plus Game Pass’ current allowance for direct downloads from a catalog of 100+ Xbox games means storage is a critical issue.
To remedy this, Seagate has debuted the Game Drive Hub for Xbox — an 8TB storage and multi-purpose USB hub designed and tested in partnership with Microsoft’s Xbox team. A massive jump from Seagate’s current Game Drive offerings (which currently cap at 4TB), this new iteration is meant for players with mammoth-sized libraries.
The Game Drive Hub works with any console in the Xbox One family of devices (Xbox One, Xbox One S, and Xbox One X),  hold over 200 games with ease, has a plug and play setup, and features two front-facing USB 3.0 ports, making it convenient to charge controllers or connect Xbox One accessories.
 of note is the Game Drive Hub’s refreshed design, which beautifully sits alongside the Xbox One S (pictured above). However, it appears to only come in the white with black accent colorway, meaning it won’t match with the upcoming Xbox One X, only announced thus far in matte black.
Regardless, with the number of 4K titles ever increasing and Game Pass on the near horizon, its Game Drive Hub’s space that matters — even ultra-hardcore gamers should find themselves challenged to reach the 8TB threshold. Goodbye, days of deleting old games! (The current average game size is 35GB to 50GB.)
Seagate’s Game Drive Hub  be available this month at select Seagate resellers for $199.99.
Subscription-based bookmarking site Pinboard is a one-man operation, founded and maintained by former Yahoo engineer and slightly eccentric Silicon Valley figure Maciej Cegłowski. Last week, it managed to acquire its longtime rival, Delicious, for a paltry $35,000, in what appeared on its surface to be a standard story of dog-eat-dog.
But behind every boring story is a smaller, more interesting story. Delicious may be largely lost to the internet, but it leaves behind a valuable lesson on understanding users — specifically those that belong to a massive online subculture.
Delicious’ road to decline was mapped by The Daily Dot, tracing its downfall back to a series of bigger acquisitions. First, the site was bought by Yahoo in 2005, and redesigned in 2009 to make it cleaner and more appealing for Yahoo’s then-huge audience. Making the site’s millions of bookmarks easier to sort through made it more accessible, but it  turned off older users who were accustomed to hiding in the haystack.
“At the time,” Cegłowski told The Verge in a phone call, “I asked [Delicious co-founder] Joshua Schachter’s blessing to do a version of what it used to look like, and spin it off as a product. I tried to target it at people who really cared more about privacy and might not want to share as many of their bookmarks.”
In 2011, after Delicious’ value had plummeted, Yahoo sold the site to YouTube property AVOS, which redesigned it again, rendering it unusable for one of its largest established user bases — fan-fic writers. Slash fic, or fan fiction about romantic relationships between popular characters, is traditionally denoted with the / mark it takes its name from. E.g. Steve Rogers / Bucky Barnes, or Hermione Granger / Harry Potter. The AVOS redesign made it impossible to tag or search for anything with a / in it. A single symbol turned into a huge opportunity for Delicious’ growing rival, Pinboard.
Cegłowski was only positioned to notice this with the help of former Delicious community manager Britta Gustafson. She taught him about fandom, and how fans had once made Delicious’ platform work for them as a way to organize hundreds of thousands of pieces of fan fiction. “As community manager,” Gustafson explained to The Verge in an email, “I heard a lot of friendly and thorough bug reports from fandom users, and I got curious about what they were bookmarking. Learning about it showed me that the fandom community was really interesting, lively, and thoughtful — a whole secret world of women like me who liked internet stuff, feminism, queerness, science fiction. I was just an amused and impressed observer.” Gustafson began participating in fandom herself, and encouraged Cegłowski to embrace the fandom community.
Fanfic people, can you draft a list of your 'must have' features for me to look at, maybe as a Google doc? I'll implement what I can for you
As a token of thanks, Cegłowski has given her control of the now-useless Delicious social media accounts. She posts from them for fun, but notes that the end of Delicious as a fandom community is a bit of a soft spot. As with many corporate redesigns of once-niche products, “[It] hurts to see a thing you built turn into a weird undead zombie.”
To learn more about how and why fandom became central to Pinboard, and what Cegłowski thinks the tech industry can learn from this weird little business story, I spoke to him about his experiences meeting fans, “building a habitat” for them, and being upfront about taking their money.
This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
I saw that you’re going to preserve Delicious as it is but not allow new activity. Why not shut it down?
The biggest reason for me is that I’ve been friends with Joshua [Schachter], the co-founder, and a bunch of the early Delicious people since forever. My roommate when I lived in New York was Peter Gadjokov, who was the other co-founder. This was their beloved project and I didn’t want to see it disappear or be bought by someone who wanted to use it strictly for SEO or marketing stuff. I thought it was really important given the amount of history and the special affection that some people have for this site, that it not end up in a startup graveyard.
I’m an archivist. That’s what Pinboard is for, so the idea that these sites just go offline and take millions and millions of pages of bookmarks with them is one of the things I hate the most. I’m glad to get the chance to preserve something that changed my life in a number of ways.
Pinboard for a while had this competition with Delicious as a main part of its brand — on Twitter, you wrote a lot of jokes about Delicious, lots of taunts aimed at Yahoo or AVOS — now that that’s over, who’s next?
Yeah, it’s really weird for me, because especially at the outset I felt like I was a flea on the elephant. I was trying to suck a few dozen customers away from this enormous Yahoo-funded giant and the idea that I could not just compete with this site, but actually buy it, never entered my mind. So I’m in a bit of a Twilight Zone feeling.
At one point, Avos was spending $40K/month on AWS hosting, and their total *lifetime* revenue was $7K. I wish I’d made fun of them harder
I feel like I won the war so thoroughly that I don’t really know what to do next. I would love to take down Pocket and I would love to take down Diigo. Pocket is losing a lot of money, and Diigo is kind of a strange, weird longterm competitor. Actually, I think there’s room for a lot of different bookmarking sites and I like that there’s competitors, I hope that they stick around.
There’s all these little niche areas in bookmarking that I want to see be occupied by people like me, who are just kind of living from it. There are a lot of ways you can earn a living but there’s not a lot of ways you can make millions. Unfortunately what ends up happening is that people start with a niche, but then they decide they want to grow the business to be like Pinterest and that never seems to work, maybe once in a decade.
I saw that you tweeted something at Flickr, is that another rivalry?
It’s not so much a rivalry, it’s just a regret. There’s this whole generation of startups that got bought at the same time by Yahoo. Upcoming, which Andy Baio was able to buy back and he’s running it again, which is super. And then Delicious, obviously. And then Flickr, which was a pioneer and it was really a beloved website and it still kind of is. If you could have Flickr back the way it used to be and run competently, everybody would be on there right now. I think it would be wonderful if the old Flickr crew could get the site back and run it the way they wanted to.
Yahoo just doesn’t understand anything about the sites they bought years and years ago, so they might as well just give them back to people who know what they’re actually for.
Pinboard has a reputation for being a platform for fandom. Would you say the platform itself  has fans, in the way that like, Tumblr has fans?
There’s been fan-fic written about Pinboard, which I thought was awesome. I think that’s the litmus test. I don’t know if it goes that far, but fans have been really nice to me and they’ve responded in a very friendly way to my overtures so I would say I get along with them. I try to understand their specific needs and uses maybe more than some other sites do.
Since you’re pretty publicly the sole personality behind this site, do you have a lot of personal interactions with users?
For the last six months I’ve been running the Tech Solidarity group, which is a political activist thing. I’ve been having meet ups in different cities, trying to get tech people involved in areas where we can help locally with volunteering and  trying to do some broader political organizing in the tech industry. In the course of those meetings I’ve actually met a lot of Pinboard users and a lot of fandom people who use Pinboard. So that’s been a very funny side effect of this sudden political activism is that I get to meet people who use the site all over the country. Some people I’ve had Twitter relationships with forever, I’ll get to put a face on a Twitter account.
Could you give some specific examples of how you communicate with fans or collaborate with them?
The biggest example was this giant Google Doc they made for me in 2011. That was after yet another [Delicious] redesign that turned off a lot of essential fan features and they ended up just creating a collaborative design document that I could work from. So that was really the most amazing example for me, of cooperation. Whenever I see Pinboard users in fandom, we talk about things they’d like to see on the site or integrations. I really like the fandom community, they’re one of the most friendly groups to support that use Pinboard.
The more fans I can get on the site the better, just from a selfish perspective as someone who has to do customer support.
Fandom, generally speaking, is a little complicated in that people who are really enthusiastic about things  have very strong opinions. Do you ever find it hard to keep up with requests?
I find that people are really understanding about it being just my solo project. So even if I can’t get stuff happening that they want, they’re pretty patient. Hopefully there’s some credibility at this point. They know I’m going to keep the site going without changing it majorly. I’m going to respect the way that people use it now and not try to go for millions of dollars or anything like that.
Pinboard anticipated these complaints that fans had about Delicious. Can you explain a little bit about how you came to know about these things? Were you personally involved in fandom?
No, no, I was a terrible person. I didn’t know anything. I made fun of fans and fan fiction. I was awful and Britta Gustafson, when she was Delicious community manager around 2005, told me all these cool tagging things that fans were doing on Delicious. The tagging system is really freeform, it’s not designed to do the things that fans made it do, but by collaborating they came up with all these inventive things that made it possible to search for fan-fic. I was just amazed by the level of collaboration and inventiveness on their part, so I remembered that. When I started Pinboard I really wanted to get the fandom community onto Pinboard, because I thought it was really cool the way they just built out the site to do their own thing.
When I saw that they were freaking out about the redesign that AVOS was doing, that was kind of the moment. I already knew who they were and how they used the site, I still didn’t realize to what extent they were a subculture of their own with their own lingo. Britta helped me, I learned that. I give her all the credit for broadening my mind about how fandom was using these sites. I’m a really big fan of the open web, of people using the web to create things and not just looking at stuff. So from that perspective I think fandom is one of the most amazing phenomena out there and I’m honored they’re using my site.
When they did that doc for me I was amazed at the level of friendliness and cooperation. I just had never seen anonymous users working together in that kind of spirit, and only later did I learn that fandom is predominantly women. That’s another reason that I’m happy that Pinboard has this subculture using it. When I was back in a frame of mind of being like “Oh, fandom, haha,” [Britta] was like “Well, you know, fandom is an underground training course in feminism for a lot of young women.” You go into it because you’re into the stories, you’re into the writing, but as a side effect you learn a lot of stuff from other women in the community. That stuck with me.
Just a gentle reminder to fanfic people - / tag works just fine on Pinboard :-)
The reason this story is so interesting to me is because I think lots of entertainment brands have already recognized the benefit of having large fanbases but I haven’t seen it as much on the tech side or developer side. Is that something you’ve noticed?
I live in San Francisco, and there’s a really good website that tells you how to build a garden that attracts bees. I didn’t know this, but there’s dozens of species of wild bees, not just the ones we’re used to, but lots of odd-looking little ones. They have these instructions on how to make a bee-friendly garden and if you do all this stuff they’ll show up and make their hives. I’ve thought about Pinboard as trying to create a habitat for different kinds of users and make it useful, and then letting things happen on their own.
What I’ve seen with fandom is that these tech companies really try to co-opt them. They try to lock them into using platforms a certain way. Amazon made this attempt to have people doing fan-fic, basically moving fan-fic onto the Kindle ecosystem, but then they had all these rules. You couldn’t use certain characters in certain ways, they basically tried to rule it with a heavy hand. Fans have been burned a lot by people trying to get money out of them, in those ways and control what they do. Of course, I’m trying to get money out of them but hopefully I’m being transparent about it. I’m really adamant that I don’t understand the ways people use my site and I want to learn from them.



Nearly 30 percent more people worldwide died from being obese in 2015 than in 1990, according to a new study published today in the New England Journal of Medicine. A quarter-century ago, about 50 deaths out of every 100,000 were related to being overweight. As of 2015, the number is now 54 out of every 100,000.
Researchers analyzed the health data of over 68 million people in 195 countries. First, the team estimated how common being overweight or obese was among both children and adults from 1980 to 2015. Next, they analyzed the cost and health impacts related to high BMI from 1990 to 2015. This means taking into account both deaths and disability-adjusted life-years, or the number of years that you lost or lived with disability due directly to a high BMI.
Since 1980, obesity has doubled in more than 70 countries. In 2015, 5 percent of children overall were obese, and 12 percent of adults. Peak obesity rates were in older adults over 50, and women were more likely to be obese than men in every age bracket.  as of 2015, there are about 108 million obese children and 604 million obese adults worldwide. There are fewer obese children than adults, but children are getting obese faster, with the rate of obesity growing especially quickly among children in countries like China and Brazil.
The results show that obesity caused four million deaths in 2015 alone, most of these due to cardiovascular disease. (This represents 7.1 percent of the deaths from any cause.) Cardiovascular disease related to high BMI was the leading cause, with chronic kidney disease being the second.
All this said, even though the overall rate of death is increasing, there isn’t a very significant change when you adjust for the age and population. In other words, even though there are more people dying overall from being obese, obese people are healthier and living for longer years than in the past because of better medical care. But in this case, living longer means more years living with obesity and associated diseases, like diabetes. For instance, in 2015, high BMI led to people worldwide living a total of 28.6 million years with a form of disability.
Overall, the authors conclude that obesity remains a growing public health problem, and one that we need to continue keeping track of and fighting.
Microsoft is bringing its colorful custom Xbox controllers to Europe today. The expansion means Xbox One owners in the UK, France, and Germany can now order custom controllers from the Xbox Design Lab. Custom designs are available in the UK starting at £69.99 or 79.99 euro in France and Germany, with free shipping. Microsoft says its Xbox Design Lab  arrive in more European countries this summer.
Microsoft first launched its Xbox Design Lab in the US last year. The custom Xbox controllers include Bluetooth for better range, and a textured and grippy back panel. You can customize most of the controller parts with different colors, including the front and back panels or the shoulder triggers and D-pad. Microsoft says there are around eight million possible color combinations, and you’ll  be able to laser engrave some text on the front for further customization or to mark your Gamertag on your controller.
Microsoft is  adding Black rubberized grips to all Xbox Design Lab controllers today, alongside four new color options and 11 new thumbstick colors. There’s even new metallic finishes or D-pads and triggers, and until June 19th Microsoft is offering a free engraving.
Lenovo has unveiled the official details on its new entry-level Moto phones: the Moto E4 and E4 Plus. As rumored, the E4 Plus does indeed come with a 5,000 mAh battery and a 5.5-inch HD display. The company claims that battery size can last nearly two days without charge — something we’ll have to test ourselves when we get the chance. The E4 Plus is  equipped with a 13-megapixel rear camera, a 5-megapixel selfie cam, and a quad-core processor.
The smaller Moto E4 shrinks the screen size down to a 5-inch display with a 2,800 mAh battery, and a 8-megapixel rear camera. The front-facing camera remains at 5-megapixels. The E4 comes in black or gold, while the E4 Plus is offered in an additional color: navy. Both phones come in a metal finish, and ships with Android Nougat.
The E4 and E4 Plus are available for $129 and $179 respectively, and the company says they  be sold in “various countries.” (Lenovo didn’t specify which.) The E4 is  expected to be sold as an Amazon Prime Exclusive Phone, but pricing and details on that version  come at a later date.
Walt Mossberg is retiring this year — he’s already written his last column, hosted his last Code Conference, and taped the final episode of Ctrl-Walt-Delete in front of a live audience in New York. But Walt’s  assembled an impressive collection of notable gadgets over his two-decade run as a reviewer and columnist, and we asked him to talk us through some of the more notable items as he cleared out of his office.
This isn’t everything — there’s far too much for that. But there’s nothing quite like Walt talking about gadgets and what they mean, and we tried to pick a few that defined their moments in a way few products now seem to do.
It’s been incredible having Walt on The Verge team, and we’re all going to miss his insight, wit, enthusiasm, and charm. I hope you enjoy this look at him doing what he does best: explaining technology to people who love it just as much as he does.
—Nilay Patel
Amazon announced the first Kindle in November 2007, the same year Apple released the first iPhone. But the $399 gadget was from a different planet in terms of design, with a chunky asymmetric case, angled hard plastic keyboard, and a reflective hardware scroll display with a dedicated wheel. “If someone had put this on Steve Jobs’ desk, they’d be fired,” says Mossberg. But the Kindle set off an e-reading revolution — modern Kindles start at just $79, with everything from the first design but the E Ink screen stripped away.

The Radio Shack TRS-80 Model 100 — or Trash 80, as it was affectionately called — was one of the first laptops. Or first tablets, if you squint. It ran on four AA batteries, and it was routinely given to journalists in the field because it had a built-in modem that could send files back to the office through an acoustic coupler for a landline phone handset. Mossberg used his TRS-80 all over the world as a reporter and editor for The Wall Street Journal; as a deputy bureau chief he bought one for every reporter in the bureau. “I honestly think you could draw a line from this to the iPad,” he says.
The Motorola StarTac was arguably the first mobile phone that was  a fashion and cultural icon. The small size and flip design inspired by Star Trek made it an object of desire, and it popped up in movies and TV shows for years. It wasn’t a smartphone — it just made calls. “Carrying this made you cool,” says Mossberg. Flip phones might have all but gone away, but the StarTac lives forever.

The ThinkPad 701 is one of the most iconic laptop designs in history — so much so that it’s sitting in New York’s Museum of Modern Art. To accommodate a full-size keyboard, IBM’s designers developed an ingenious “butterfly” folding mechanism that folded the deck into the case when the lid was closed, and expanded it when the hinge was opened. “This solved a very important problem that people in the early days of laptops that people had.” A few years later, the advent of larger screens meant that full-size keyboards fit well under the screen, and the butterfly keyboard was retired. But it’s still a marvel.

What else is there to say about the iPhone? Apple’s touchscreen wonder changed the course of technology and culture, setting off the mobile revolution. “Smartphones are the new personal computer,” says Mossberg. A decade later, Apple is among the most valuable companies on the planet, and the iPhone is 70 percent of its business. And now we’re all waiting for the 10th anniversary iPhone to blow us all away once again.




While Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo  all be holding press conferences for their consoles, PC gamers aren’t missing out on the fun at E3 this year. The PC Gaming Show, returning for the third year and hosted by PC Gamer, is designed to give computer-bound gamers a place of their own at the show.
PC Gamer has said that this year’s show  include an increased focus on VR and e-sports content, which makes sense given the surge in popularity of those two fields over the last year.
Intel is a major partner for the PC Gaming Show, expect to see some news about the company’s new Core X line, and especially the ultra-powerful Core i9 processors. Additionally, the incredibly popular last-man standing shooter Playerunknown’s Battlegrounds  be making an appearance in some fashion, possibly to announce new features or gameplay modes. And Microsoft is showing up as well, presumably to talk more about its ongoing Xbox Play Anywhere initiative to bridge the gap between Xbox One and Windows 10 gamers.
Here’s how you can keep up with all the action:
Starting time: San Francisco: 10AM / New York: 1PM / London: 6PM / Berlin: 7PM / Moscow: 8PM / Beijing: 1AM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 2AM (June 13th) / Sydney: 3AM (June 13th).
Live streaming: Watch PC Gamer’s live stream on its Twitch channel.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for gaming stories and E3 news throughout the week.
From Microsoft’s perspective, the Xbox One X, the new console built to take advantage of the rapid growth of 4K televisions, is a luxury item. Its diminutive shell contains an abundance of RAM, teraflops, and other expensive bits. For that reason, $499 is a logical price for Microsoft to go with, but it isn’t a competitive one.
As my colleague Tom Warren noted in our original story, the Xbox One  cost $100 more than its direct 4K console competitor, the PlayStation 4 Pro. Technically, the Xbox One X delivers native 4K, while the Pro mostly offers something approaching that resolution. But in both cases, it depends on the game. And some PS4 Pro games are in native 4K, though they tend to be smaller indie titles and see what I mean! “Technically” is a messy word — and that spells trouble when it comes to clear, concise marketing.
Ironically, Sony spent the past year learning the problem with “technically.” Technically, its PS4 Pro is superior to the more affordable PS4 Slim, but that depends on the game you’re playing, whether its developer has provided additional patches and optimization, and if that patch is even available at the time you play that game. And though each PS4 Pro-optimized game is technically better than the same experience on PS4 Slim, the improvements are unique from game to game: some upgrade resolution and increase frame rate, others add additional post-processing. PSVR games benefit, in some vague capacity, from the added PS4 Pro power. But Sony has yet to find a compelling way to explain or showcase how and why any of this works in a 30-second hype reel that airs in the middle of a playoff game or ahead of a blockbuster movie.
Sony hasn’t revealed specific sales numbers for PS4 Pro (though we know, vaguely, that one in five PlayStation 4s sold since November have been a Pro). The company has, however, provided some comment on the people who made the upgrade. It’s helpful in understanding who Sony and now Microsoft are targeting with the pricey machines.
"People just want the best," PlayStation Europe boss Jim Ryan told Glixel. "Maybe they just want to future-proof? I think we see the same thing from Apple customers too — there are people that want the best that you can buy."
Microsoft is angling into this concept of people who want the best, simply because it is the best. At its press event, Microsoft employees wore shirts that read “I witnessed the most powerful console ever.” But how  the company show the average fan or newcomer — the person who doesn’t watch side-by-side graphical comparison videos at Digital Foundry, the YouTube channel Microsoft partnered with for the reveal of the system’s specs — that the One X is better and more powerful than the PS4 Pro?
Microsoft has a handful of advantages. Unlike the PS4 Pro, which uses a trick called checkerboarding to create 4K-like resolutions, Microsoft can confidently say that many games  run in native 4K resolution on the Xbox One X. It  has a UHD Blu-ray drive, a point of pride for the company since Xbox One S. And it promises the hardware  provide a performance boost to all games, though it hasn’t provided specifics.
But these improvements largely hinge on the ability of consumers to notice the difference between ultra-high resolutions and merely very high resolutions. And it assumes they care. Worse, most gamers still don’t have 4K TVs, and most commercials on television and the web aren’t shown in 4K, making differentiating one 4K game from another an even more absurd task. Even for those that do have a 4K set, HDR often makes a bigger difference than 4K resolution itself — and Microsoft’s $249 Xbox One S already supports it with HD games, 4K streaming apps like Netflix, and UHD Blu-ray discs.
The “most powerful console” sounds good, but when it’s hard to provide a concise explanation of its superiority — let alone demonstrate that superiority — the majority of marketing  fall on something else entirely: the games. Whether or not Microsoft has enough games for the Xbox One X to best PS4 Pro amongst casual gamers... I’ll leave that for you to consider.
Ultimately, if Microsoft wants to leverage the Xbox One X to not just live alongside PS4 Pro, but challenge it, the company needs to find a way to get customers to care about the nitty gritty of resolution and graphics.
And is that really the direction Microsoft and Sony want to go? Encouraging their player-base to obsess over graphical minutiae? If so, I suspect Microsoft and Sony may find themselves fighting not against each other but the rise of PC gaming. The companies already offer excellent, comparably affordable consoles. But if they perceive luxury to mean the best graphics, they’ll find themselves competing with computers that not only offer better resolutions, but more graphical customization options, cheaper storefronts, and freedom to upgrade.
If players want the best possible graphics, they have PCs. And if they want all the features of the Xbox One X without the promise of 4K gaming, they can buy an Xbox One S at half the price. It’s the most powerful console ever; but is it the right console for you?
Meet Xbox One X, "the most powerful console ever made."
USA Today is reporting that Andy Rubin’s Essential Phone has a launch partner in the US: Sprint. That’s not exactly a surprise, when we asked the four major US carriers whether they’d support the Essential phone, three of them offered tepid statements saying it would operate just fine on their network, but Sprint said that “More specific information  be provided at a later date.” That was a hint, it turns out.
This launch “exclusive” isn’t quite as exclusive as others, because the Essential Phone is packed with enough radios to work across multiple networks — and Essential  be selling the phone unlocked.
Rubin said at the Code conference that he’s trying very hard to not install carrier apps on the Essential Phone when it launches. He didn’t go so far as to flat-out to commit to no “Craplets” (as Walt Mossberg called them at Code), however. That’s not a surprise, either — it’s very difficult for any Android manufacturer to get their phone in stores without carrier apps. If Samsung can’t pull it off, Essential probably can’t either. The good news is that Sprint is actually better than some of its competitor when it comes to lading on unnecessary apps.
Here’s the big question: why Sprint? Here’s what Essential president Niccolo de Masi told Ed Baig: “We like to bet with where we think the market is going as opposed to where the market was ... we are partnering with the network of the future.” That seems... like not a great example of a new companies ability to predict where the market is going.
The decision to partner with Sprint feels off not just becuase it’s fallen on hard times lately, with T-Mobile hard-charging and AT&T and Verizon big-footing. It feels off because it might cause some people to remember another innovative phone that wanted to take on the dominant smartphone players as a new entrant with new software and hardware tricks. That phone was the original Palm Pre, and it didn’t go so well.
Things are very different now. The Essential Phone hopefully won’t have the same launch bugs and performance issues that the Pre had. More importantly, it’ll  be available unlocked for any network, something that wasn’t the case with past exclusives.
This is probably more about advertising than anything else. Sprint is going to put marketing dollars behind the Essential phone. We shouldn’t have long to wait until we see what that campaign looks like, as Rubin has said that the phone should be launching within the month. It  cost $699.
It's 2017, so I doubt OnePlus needs an introduction anymore, but let's do it one more time just for fun. OnePlus, an offshoot of big Chinese phone maker Oppo, has been garnering global hype and adulation for its "flagship killer" phones since its first device launched in 2014. Taking a minimalist approach to both price and Android augmentations, the company has been delivering some of the best-value smartphones in recent times, and last year's OnePlus 3 and 3T models were easily among my top recommendations. If your budget doesn't stretch as far as a Google Pixel, Samsung Galaxy S, or Apple iPhone, I'd point you in OnePlus' direction without hesitation.
We're just over a week away from the unveiling of this year's iteration from OnePlus, the OnePlus 5, and my excitement for it is building due to two related reasons: 2017 has so far been a weird year for phones, with a bunch of basic usability issues cropping up, but I have the sense that OnePlus  be the one company to overcome those problems and just deliver an uncomplicated, good Android smartphone. Like it's always done. In other words, my biggest wish with regard to the OnePlus 5 is for OnePlus to not shoot itself in the foot.
But let's run through a few of the missteps I've noticed this year and the opportunity they allow for OnePlus:
Table stakes for any smartphone since the latter half of 2015, the fingerprint reader has gone through many variations and iterations, and it has almost inevitably been spoiled by companies overthinking the whole thing.
The worst offender on this front in 2017 has without doubt been Samsung, with its offset, rear-mounted fingerprint scanner on the Galaxy S8. I've used the larger S8+, where the reader is utterly unusable due to its position, and I've been using the regular S8 for a few weeks now, and it's become a habit for me to hit the camera lens first, then slide over to the fingerprint reader, and then wait a couple of ticks for it to register.
LG's G6 is unsatisfying to use for a similar reason: its fingerprint reader,  on the back, is quite tiny and unintuitive to reach, slowing down an action that I perform probably a hundred times per day. Sony puts its fingerprint reader on the side of the phone, which is  suboptimal.
The OnePlus 3 is still the fastest-unlocking phone I've ever used. The moment my finger makes any contact with the home button, the homescreen is up and I'm able to get on with the trivialities of checking Twitter or the serious business of... checking Twitter. (As an aside, I  found the action of double-tapping the power button to activate the camera worked most quickly and reliably for me on the OnePlus 3, it's just a very well executed design). I want more of that instant responsiveness in the OnePlus 5.
I'm going to pick on Samsung again here, in spite of the new generation of TouchWiz being really very good. Samsung's new Bixby virtual assistant is a persistent nag throughout the Galaxy S8 interface, and you've basically got no choice but to create a Samsung account and log in, just to be able to use the camera without being constantly reminded to activate Bixby. HTC still ships its phones with annoying preloaded apps like News Republic, and don't even get me started on the amount of bloatware the LG G6 is saddled with in Korea. We pay a lot of money for smartphones, is it too much to expect to have a measure of control over the software running on them?
At a time when everyone else is getting bent out of shape chasing ephemeral differentiation (HTC has its own assistant, on top of Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa), OnePlus has always played it straight. The OnePlus approach of leaner and cleaner has been a winning one, helping it produce devices that just feel faster by virtue of having nothing slowing them down. To a great extent, this is just exploiting the inherent strengths of Android and passing it off as minimalism, but this marketing has resonated with users. And it just makes sense: the company is giving people one of the fastest Android experiences while keeping its software development costs in check.
This is where I'm starting to worry that OnePlus might perhaps give in to the same temptation as everyone else. The company's phones have always been about flagship quality at sub-flagship prices, but when I look at the leaked image of the new 5, with its dual cameras and iPhone-esque aesthetic, I'm starting to suspect OnePlus might be looking to enter the premium price range. And I think that would be a mistake.
Huawei tried to premium itself up this year with the P10. I'm not sure how that venture's panning out in terms of consumer sales, but it was widely panned by critics. Huawei's 2016 strengths were almost indistinguishable from those of OnePlus: really solid design, excellent fingerprint reader, smooth and responsive performance, and a killer price. I still consider the P9 an outstanding choice for anyone not too fussed about keeping up with the latest specs. But the P10 hiked up the price, added design flourishes that weren't necessary, and yet omitted the oleophobic coating that should be absolutely standard on every phone. I doubt OnePlus would make that last mistake, but I still think the company's price differentiation is an essential element of its appeal.
If you create a loyal fan following on the basis of being more affordable than everyone else, but then go up in price, those same fans might simply lack the budget to stick with you.
There's a reason why, in spite of my praise for the OnePlus 3 and 3T, I'm not using either as my main phone, and that reason is the Google Pixel's camera. Yes, I sound like a broken record at this point, but the Pixel truly redefined my expectations of what a mobile camera can do, and now I've become an extremist about it. The iPhone is absolutely not sharp enough for me anymore, the LG G6 is decent but overprocesses everything, and the Galaxy S8 is just about good enough to keep me interested. HTC's U11 has shown itself to benchmark well, and I'd love to spend some extended time with it to verify its performance. This landscape is wide open for a company to come in and assert itself as the Pixel's equal, and OnePlus' partnership with photography experts DxO (they of DxOMark fame) gives me cause for cautious optimism.
More than anything, OnePlus needs to have faith in the strength of its own designs and execution. One successful phone might have been a fluke, two could be a great streak of luck, but the company now has four years of constantly improving and evolving devices. If OnePlus sticks to the strategy that's brought it to its current position, I'm confident it'll deliver a phone worthy of our curiosity and anticipation.
P.S. — I'm gonna be mad as hell if there's no headphone jack.
A little more than a year after Apple released the 9.7-inch iPad Pro, it’s replacing it with a new model, the iPad Pro 10.5. In that year, guess how many companies came within a million miles of matching the speed, power, convenience, and app selection of the old iPad Pro. Can you guess?
The answer is zero.
And yet, despite the fact that the meaningful tablet market has dwindled down to some Window 10 devices and the iPad – and despite the fact that the iPad itself has seen slowing sales – the company’s engineers are still moving full speed ahead and putting the most advanced technical hardware features it can come up with into this device. Apple is basically showing off at this point.
Except for one thing: this iPad wasn’t built for today. It was designed to work with a new version of iOS coming later this fall that  change how people interact with and use this device. So for now, the iPad Pro is a hot rod sitting at the starting line, gunning its engines, waiting for permission to hit the gas. And very few other companies are even in the race.
Apple has definitively made clear what the differences are between a regular iPad and an iPad Pro. Those differences include a murderer’s row of specs that don’t seem very necessary for what most people do with iPads. Here is what makes an iPad Pro, Pro: a bigger, better screen; a faster, more powerful processor; better cameras; support for the Apple Pencil; a keyboard connection port; and more speakers.
There’s one more difference, though, and it’s the biggest and most important one: the price. The iPad Pro starts at $649 for a 64GB model, and it can be priced all the way up to $1079.00 for 512GB of storage and LTE. Oh, and the Apple Pencil is $99 and Apple’s Smart Keyboard is $159, though there are cheaper third-party keyboards available.
Compare that with the regular iPad, which starts at $329 and is perfectly good at what most people do with iPads: read, watch some movies, check email, browse the web, play some games, and so on.
Add it all up and it’s not just laptop territory, it’s premium, top-of-the-line laptop territory. And If you’re looking at the larger, 12.9-inch iPad Pro (which is getting all the new features in this iPad Pro), add even more money to the pile.
I think that most people need to go through a careful calculus of value before deciding to buy an iPad that costs this much, and I think the end of that equation should either be “the iPad Pro can be my main computer” or “I have plenty of money to spend on a nice thing.” There are some important variables in that equation, but before that I want to explain why this iPad Pro is such a nice thing.
The iPad Pro 10.5 is a slightly larger version of the standard sized iPad you’ve seen from Apple for many years now, which means many older accessories won’t fit. That extra size comes from — surprise — the larger 10.5-inch screen, but Apple reduced the bezels around the edge of the screen a bit so the overall size difference isn’t really all that noticeable. It weighs about a pound and is less than a quarter of an inch thin. Even though it’s a “Pro,” it very much feels like any other iPad you’ve used.
I was all set to complain that increasing the size from 9.7 to 10.5 was not a big enough jump to justify requiring people to buy new keyboards and accessories. Then I started typing on the on-screen keyboard and on the new hardware Smart Keyboard. Even though I’m dubious about Apple’s claim that the software keyboard is “full size,” I find the slight size increase makes touch typing much easier. It’s still a little cramped, but it’s much easier to bounce between this and a real keyboard now.
The usual things you expect from Pro iPad screens are all here: high-resolution display, True Tone for matching the screen’s color to the ambient light in the room, a wide color gamut, a fully-laminated LCD so the pixels feel like they’re right on the glass, fingerprint resistance, and a coating to make it slightly less reflective in the sun.
If that was all Apple had done, I’d be sitting here telling you that this is an incredible display and  telling you not to worry that the slightly-higher 2224 x 1668 resolution means some older apps  have to upscale a tiny bit. I’d probably  mention that Apple has increased the max brightness to a very high 600 nits. But of course, that’s not all Apple has done.
The new feature that matters on this display is that it’s capable of a refresh rate of 120Hz, which is twice what most mobile devices are capable of. That sentence is as nerdy as it sounds, but stay with me for a second on this one. The refresh rate is how quickly the pixels on the screen get redrawn when you scroll or when something moves on a screen. 120Hz  means that when you scroll, there’s less lag when the pixels move.
Reducing lag is important because the obvious goal for any tablet screen is to make the stuff that appears on screen sort of feel like actual physical things you’ve moving around. This refresh rate takes us a surprisingly large step in that direction. It  means that the latency when you draw with the Apple Pencil is  reduced to 20 milliseconds — so it too feels closer to physically drawing on paper.
There are other practical benefits. Because this is Apple, it’s given a name to this feature: ProMotion. And ProMotion does more than just ratchet up the refresh rate, it  ratchets it down. So if you’re watching a movie, the screen refresh rate  lower and optimize to the video’s  frame rate. If you’re just looking at some static text on an ebook, the iPad  slow the refresh rate down even further to save battery life. Apple says that the tablet has a dedicated chip (sort of like the chip that’s used to process camera images) that looks at what’s going on on your screen and adjust the refresh rate accordingly.
If Apple had done nothing to the iPad screen in the past year, I don't think anybody would have complained.  you actually notice all this stuff? Yes, but honestly only if you’re looking for it. More likely is that your experience  be like mine for the past week. Using the iPad Pro 10.5 just feels subtly, almost invisibly better. Is it really necessary? Probably not, but Apple decided it could make the screen incredible and so it did. The iPad Pro is very much a spare-no-expense device.
The rest of the superlatives about the iPad Pro’s hardware are almost not worth mentioning. Even though they’re improvements over the last iPad, it’s not as though any of these features were lacking in any serious way on its predecessor.
There’s a new processor, the A10X Fusion, which in some situations is able to outperform some Intel laptop chips. The rear camera is the same as what you’ll find on the iPhone 7, a 12-megapixel sensor with optical image stabilization. It takes very good photos. It still has four loud speakers. It has the latest generation TouchID sensor for unlocking the iPad quickly.
The most pertinent spec after the screen is the battery life, and I can report that it’s very good. I have been getting 8 and 9 hours of multipurpose use on the regular, very close to Apple’s claimed 10 hours of web surfing.
Those are all the hardware and price variables in the value equation, but the last thing to consider is the software running on the iPad. It turns out that it's the same-old story today, but  be a much more interesting story later this fall.
So for today, the iPad Pro runs the same iOS 10 we've been using since last September, and there’s not a whole lot new to say about it. It’s fast, easy to understand, and the ability to split screen apps is convenient, though not as powerful as a full windowing system. The real thing to know is that you’re going to be able to do a lot more later this year when the just-announced iOS 11 is released.
With iOS 11, the core UI of how iPad multitasking works is going to completely change. The dock of apps at the bottom  be available with a swipe up from anywhere. Instead of your recent apps getting listed in a horizontal card view, you’ll get a grid of them organized into “spaces” where split views you’ve set up  stay together (not unlike Mission Control on MacOS). There  be real Drag-and-Drop support — and in fact it may be more powerful than what you can do on a desktop.
And, finally, you (and all your apps)  have access to a real, traditional file system.
I am hopeful that the sum of all these operating system changes  add up to a significantly more powerful experience of using the iPad Pro as a computer, not just for “iPad things.” Make no mistake, the iPad and iPad Pro are already computers and perfectly capable of doing “computer things.” But because iOS got its start by trying to simplify away things like files systems and windows, it involves too many tricky workarounds compared to the way most of us understand how to use traditional computers.
I don’t think iOS 11 is going to turn the iPad into something like a Mac or a Windows PC, with all their customization options and apps that plug deep into the system. Yet I do think it  unlock opportunities for both users and developers that aren’t there today. I suspect that all the power inside the iPad Pro  mean that it  work better with those new features, but since it's not out yet, I can't say for sure.
If you're trying to switch to a tablet as your main computer and are surveying the competition, here's the only question that matters: can Windows 10 apps get better faster than Apple can build more utility into iOS? If I were Microsoft, I'd be very worried about the answer.
Now that we know that the 10.5-inch iPad Pro is an impressive device and that we further know that iOS 11 is going to radically change how you use it, let’s get back to that value equation I mentioned earlier. Basically, should you buy it? The iPad Pro 10.5 presents a conundrum: it is a stupendous device that I firmly believe most people shouldn’t buy just yet.
To me, if you’re going to spend $650 on a computer, it should almost surely be your main computer. And if you’re going to make the iPad Pro your main computer, you should probably get more than 64GB of storage and you should  probably get a keyboard to go with it (to say nothing of the Apple Pencil). It hits the $1,000 mark very quickly.
If you’re going to spend that much money on an iPad, you should know exactly what you’re going to do with it that takes advantage of all the Pro features. There are people who are already doing that, but I don’t think the majority of computer users can be comfortable using an iPad as their main device. For those who can, go out and buy the hell out of this thing (unless you already have the iPad Pro 9.7).
For the rest of us, my advice is to hold out and see whether iOS 11 changes the calculus.
Photography by James Bareham
Video by Christian Mazza, Becca Farsace

It's hard out there for a new pair of wired earphones. It's harder still if they're on Kickstarter instead of a Best Buy retail shelf, and it's hardest of all if they're produced from a complete neophyte of a company. That's the challenge ahead for the StarBrick Be4 in-ear headphones that I've been listening to for the past few days, but I'm encouraged to say they have what it takes to overcome their humble beginnings.
The Be4 are built around one of the priciest materials around, beryllium, whose lightness and rigidity prove incredibly useful in the creation of dynamic audio drivers that can recreate music faithfully and without improper resonances or distortion. Beryllium is the core ingredient in the best dynamic-driver headphones I've heard so far, the $3,999 Focal Utopias, and seeing it make an appearance in such tiny and affordable headphones as the Be4 is what intrigued me to give these new buds a listen.
The good news is that the StarBrick Be4 keep my happy track record with beryllium intact. They have a very sweet, mellow sound that can be enjoyed for many hours at a time. I like their reproduction of vocals, which is especially good on Bjork's Homogenic, and their wide soundstage and sense of detail. They don't have great dynamic range, as I feel like they lack the deepest bass and highest treble, but that's part of what makes them such a comfortable listen. For my tastes, they lack the bite and aggression that I favor (a good example of which might be Shure's SE535s, which have an extra sliver of bass and Shure's characteristically efferverscent treble), however I can see them being an excellent pick for people with more laid-back preferences.
The usual Kickstarter caveat must apply here: you're dealing with an unknown company that has no prior successful products to its name (I checked and this is the very first StarBrick product of any kind), and you're taking on a greater risk than moseying down to the nearest electronics store and picking up a pair of generic buds. That being said, I like these Be4 earbuds: they fit well, they're handsomely designed, and they're nicely tuned. The first 75 backers can grab a pair for $99, followed by $109 for the next 75, and $119 for anyone else still keen, with deliveries promised for August.
Microsoft unveiled its new Xbox One X game console last night, and the company is using a variety of logos so consumers can tell which games are enhanced for the new system. A new “Xbox One X Enhanced” logo  be visible on retail games and in the Xbox Store, and Microsoft says it lets gamers know “when a developer has done special work to take advantage of Xbox One X’s 6 teraflops of performance, and to distinguish it from existing Xbox One titles.”
That “special work” might not always be very clear, but Microsoft expects dozens of titles to be updated and “enhanced” for the Xbox One X. Microsoft is using three logos in total for new Xbox One games, including the enhanced logo, a 4K indicator, and a symbol for HDR support. The 4K support  mean a game has a 2160p frame buffer output, that includes Native 4K, Checkerboarding, and Dynamic Resolution. HDR support is just the regular HDR10 standard that already exists on the Xbox One S.
Enhanced for Xbox One X  be the slightly more confusing out of all three logos, as developers can choose from a range of ways to improve their games for the new console. At the minimum it  mean existing titles are updated to take more advantage of the hardware capabilities of the Xbox One X, or that a developer has used the most recent developer tools. Even if games aren’t specifically enhanced for the Xbox One X, Microsoft claims they’ll still play better on the new console.

Bethesda has clarified its new Creation Club system — the program that  sell additional content to both The Elder Scrolls: Skyrim and Fallout 4 — specifying that the service  not be used to sell existing mods. Creation Club, which was announced during the publisher’s E3 keynote last night,  instead allow players to buy officially sanctioned characters, weapons, and other add-ons created by Bethesda’s own studios and selected third-party developers.
 available via Creation Club  be new clothes, areas, and even game modes. All of the above sound like the kinds of things mods have been bringing to the two games since their release, but Bethesda notes the difference, stating in its FAQ that most of the items for sale  be made internally, by the games’ own development teams, or by other studios under its umbrella.
Some other developers   be involved, the company says, mentioning partners that have already worked on Bethesda games, as well as “external creators,” but each  have to go through an internal review process. “All the content is approved, curated, and taken through the full internal dev cycle; including localisation, polishing, and testing,” the company says. “This  guarantees that all content works together."
That’s a marked difference from regular mods, which are usually created by amateur coders in their spare time, and distributed online for free. That approach may mean that regular mods lack the polish of the add-ons you can expect to get under the Creation Club program — save games are often incompatible with some mods, for example — but it  gives mod makers freedom that official add-ons might not get. Don’t expect to see a Bethesda-sanctioned Thomas the Tank Engine mod for Skyrim any time soon.
That said, the idea of paying for third-party mods is not unheard of. Bethesda was one of the first companies to get involved in a paid mod program Steam creator Valve launched — and then quickly shelved — back in 2015. The program faced widespread criticism from PC gamers as soon as it launched, and lasted only a week before the publisher canceled it. Speaking at the time, Valve’s Alden Kroll said that Valve "didn't understand exactly what we were doing” by introducing real money into established modmaking communities.
Speaking in 2015 about the controversy, Bethesda’s Pete Hines said that his company would re-evaluate the idea of paid mods in the future, saying that “there is a case to be made that people who spend a lot of time working on mods ought to be able to have a way of monetizing what they're doing.” But two years doesn’t seem to have reversed Bethesda’s decision. In its Creation Club FAQ, the company says a definitive “no” to the question of whether mods  be available for real cash. “Mods  remain a free and open system where anyone can create and share what they’d like,” the page reads. “, we won’t allow any existing mods to be retrofitted into Creation Club, it must all be original content.”

Sony has a new version of the FES Watch, its E Ink watch that can display a variety of faces and band designs at the touch of a button. The FES Watch U adds a metal bezel to the original’s minimalist design, which may or may not to be your taste — it kind of isn’t to mine, though the product does look more refined overall.
While neither model is really a smartwatch, the FES Watch U does have a little more functionality than the original model, with extra face designs available by connecting to an app called FES Closet. Sony says it  release new designs from notable creators every month for the rest of the year. The new watch  uses a rechargeable battery that lasts up to 3 weeks; the original FES Watch used button cells that had to be replaced every couple of years.
The FES Watch U is available in Japan from today from Sony’s First Flight crowdfunding site, as well as several fashion boutiques in Tokyo. The “premium black” model costs 60,000 yen ($544), while the regular steel finish sells for 46,000 yen ($417) with a black or white strap. Both variants are considerably more expensive than the 29,700 yen original, and it’s unlikely any of them  see an official release outside Japan.
It takes a lot to surprise me these days, but Logitech has done it. The PC gear company has just revealed a new Powerplay technology that builds wireless charging directly into its mouse pad, allowing compatible wireless mice to charge constantly while on the pad. As someone with bitter memories of being let down by the feeble batteries of wireless gaming peripherals, I've developed something of a phobia for anything untethered, but this Powerplay action sounds like exactly the thing I've been waiting for.
The wireless charging tech built inside the Powerplay mouse mat is proprietary to Logitech, and the company claims it took more than four years of research and development to make it a reality. I asked Logitech why it didn't go with something more ubiquitous like the Qi standard, and the answer I received was that it wouldn't have been possible to cover the whole surface (275mm x 320mm) of the pad with Qi. Corsair's Project Zeus concept does use Qi, but consigns it to just one corner of the pad, whereas the Logitech G Powerplay mouse pad  charge your mouse wherever it's positioned and no matter how it's moving.
I can't overstate just how ingenious and appropriate an application of technology this is. Conceptually, I love it already, and the only trace of skepticism I have is about whether it works quite as well as Logitech promises. There's no Mac compatibility listed, for one thing, and the idea of the wireless charging causing no interference to the wireless data transfer for the mouse to communicate with a PC certainly needs to be tested. If it works as advertised, though, I'd grab one of these Powerplay pads and never look back. It even comes with a choice of hard or cloth surface to suit your mousing preferences.
Alongside the Logitech G Powerplay, which is to be priced at $99.99 and released in August, Logitech has  announced the first two mice officially compatible with it: the G903 and G703. The G903 is a very modest upgrade from the G900 while the G703 is practically identical to the well liked G403; both of the two new models use the PMW3366 optical sensor and just add improved switches rated to last longer. The G903  cost $149.99 and the G703  be $99.99 when they go on sale later this month.
UK-automaker Jaguar Land Rover is investing $25 million in Lyft to support the ride-hail company’s autonomous and connected vehicle activities, the two companies announced today. The money was invested through InMotion, Jaguar Land Rover’s mobility services subsidiary, and was included in Lyft’s latest round of fundraising, which ended in April.
Under the terms of the deal, JLR  provide an unknown number of vehicles to Lyft drivers. Additionally, JLR — Britain’s biggest carmaker —  be allowed to test its autonomous vehicles on Lyft’s ride-hailing network. The automaker has been testing its autonomous research vehicles on a 44-mile stretch near its headquarters in Coventry.
Lyft has been on a streak of corporate cooperation lately, having just recently locked down a pair of deals with two self-driving startups, Waymo and NuTonomy, to accelerate the deployment of on-demand, autonomous vehicles. But the partnership with JLR is Lyft’s first significant investment from a traditional automaker since General Motors gave it $500 million in December 2015.
The legacy auto industry has been increasingly interested in technology and mobility companies like Uber and Lyft, as it seeks to insulate itself from a predicted decline in personal car ownership.
The news is  the latest sign that Lyft — No. 2 in the US, but still significantly smaller than rival Uber — prefers to remain somewhat of a passive player in the world of self-driving cars. Rather than develop its own software, the company  allow companies like GM, Waymo, NuTonomy, and now JLR, to test their vehicles on its platform. Lyft president and co-founder John Zimmer has said that he expects the majority of the company’s rides to take place in autonomous vehicles by 2021.
Of course, Lyft isn’t the only ride-hailing company out there making these types of partnerships. Uber inked a deal with Volvo last year to purchase 100 cars with the goal of outfitting them with the ride-hail company’s autonomous hardware. The app company  recently joined forces with German auto giant Daimler on the deployment of self-driving cars. The cars, along with the autonomous technology,  be manufactured by Daimler before being introduced into Uber’s ride-hailing network, the companies say.
But Uber’s pursuit of self-driving technology has led it down some dark paths. The company was recently sued by Waymo, which is a subsidiary of Google parent company Alphabet, for allegedly stealing its autonomous driving secrets. The case is still winding its way through the courts, but there have already been a number of casualties, including the head of Uber’s self-driving unit and, arguably, Uber’s reputation.


Welcome to Bethesdaland, a creepy cartoon wonderland full of Bethesda games. As part of its E3 press conference, the company showcased all its not-so-cheerful upcoming properties in an uncomfortably festive light. Doom and Fallout in VR. A more arcade-style Quake championed as a $1 million esport. Some creepy-as-hell horror in The Evil Within 2. A new story in the world Dishonored 2. And capping off the night? A whole new take on Wolfenstein.
There was, alas, no new Fallout Shelter this year.
The oversized controller from the original Xbox console — aka “The Duke” — is making a comeback on the Xbox One this holiday season, via Polygon. Accessory maker Hyperkin is partnering with Microsoft to bring back the legendary controller for the Xbox One and Windows 10 devices.
The new Duke is a slightly modernized version that  be, for the most part, a “faithful recreation of the original controller's form factor.” That’s not to say there won’t be any new features: Hyperkin is updating the controller with “a logo display screen, left and right bumpers, and a 9 ft. detachable cable.”
The news is timely too, given that Microsoft announced earlier today that it would be adding backwards compatibility for the original Xbox to the Xbox One at its E3 keynote today.
For those not familiar with The Duke’s majesty, it came into being alongside the original Xbox when it was released on November 21, 2001 in North America. The Duke remains to this day one of gaming’s most infamous pieces of hardware, considered by most to be comically oversized and dreadfully uncomfortable. The negative feedback led to its eventual replacement by the smaller Xbox Controller S, which was originally designed for the Japanese market. The Xbox 360 and Xbox One controllers that followed  took design cues from the Controller S, instead of the Duke’s princely size.
The recreated Duke is being built with the guidance and blessing of Seamus Blackley, one of the designers of the original Xbox and long-time proponent of the massive controller.
As Promised! https://t.co/tOVQEg3IqR
There’s no concrete word on price or release date, but hopefully Hyperkin  have more to share soon.
Bethesda made a series of questionable choices at its E3 press conference, like holding the event at 9PM local time (midnight, for those of you on the East Coast), constructing an entire miniature theme park called “Bethesdaland,” and featuring the Chainsmokers. And it didn’t deliver a few of the most anticipated announcements, like the rumored sci-fi game Starfield.
That said, some exciting stuff came out of Bethesda’s various studios. We’ve got the most important parts of it collected here.
The first Dishonored game had excellent expansions, putting players in the shoes of antagonist Daud and his protege Billie Lurk. Now, there’s a new standalone story set in the universe, apparently after the events of Dishonored 2. Lurk and Daud are back, and they’re teaming up to kill the Outsider, an emo folk deity who has driven the events of the series so far. It’s launching on September 15th.
Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus is a sequel to Wolfenstein: The New Order, set in 1961 America and featuring a cast of pulp movie archetypes. If you want to shoot Nazis in a video game this year, maybe this  be a good way to do it! , somebody takes LSD. The New Colossus  come out on October 27th.
Yep, that’s still happening, and it could turn out pretty well. Doom VFR is an apparently standalone virtual reality shooter for the HTC Vive and PlayStation VR; it looks similar to the early experience we tried at E3 2016, but more polished. Meanwhile, a VR version of Fallout 4 — as in, the full open-world game in a VR headset — got an official release date of October on the HTC Vive.
What is The Evil Within 2 — a sequel to Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami’s 2014 game — about? In broad strokes, original protagonist Sebastian Castellanos is searching for his daughter in a surreal nightmarescape. But you need to watch the trailer to get the full force of its weirdness, including a milk-themed visual motif straight out of Westworld.

Did you watch The Man in the High Castle and think, “I wish this had more gore and fire-breathing robots?” Bethesda has something for you: Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, the latest in MachineGames’ portion of the Wolfenstein series. The New Colossus follows the excellent 2014 game Wolfenstein: The New Order and its 2015 prequel Wolfenstein: The Old Blood, and it’s set in the same alternate universe in which Nazis won World War 2. This time, though, the year is 1961, and protagonist B.J. Blazkowicz is back in the US to help the American resistance.
Bethesda teased The New Colossus at E3 last year, but at that point, it wasn’t explicitly connected to the Wolfenstein series. (A listing  leaked on Amazon Germany yesterday.) According to the trailer description, the game  send you through Roswell, New Mexico; a flooded New Orleans; and the nuclear waste of New York City, among other locations. This first trailer is heavy on the same ironic nostalgia Bethesda loves to play on with the Fallout series, and the game looks — at the very least — like entertaining pulp. It’s being released on October 27th for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and PC.
Bethesda took the time at E3 to announce a variety of new games, all coming later this year in 2017. That includes Wolfenstein 2: The New Colossus, The Evil Within 2, and a new standalone Dishonored spin-off, Dishonored: Death of the Outsider. Here are the biggest trailers, gameplay videos, and announcements from the Bethesda’s E3 2017 event.
A sequel to The Evil Within, a horror game from  Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami,  launch October 13 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC, Bethesda announced today during its E3 press conference. The announcement for The Evil Within 2 was accompanied with an absolutely bonkers trailer.
Tango Gameworks and Bethesda released The Evil Within in 2014. The game followed a police detective, Sebastian Castellanos, who is mysteriously transported to a bizarre and terrifying new realm while investigating a murder case. In the sequel, Sebastian returns to a nightmare world while searching for his daughter.
Rumors about a sequel have been circulating since March after a job listing was leaked.  This week, Reddit users spotted an ad on the site for the game.

Dishonored, Bethesda’s excellent steam punk-meets-occult stealth series, is getting a new expansion on September 15th, the developer announced this evening at its E3 press conference. As many fans suspected, the expansion puts players in the shoes of Dreadful Whale Captain Meagan Foster, who in a previous life was an assassin who went by the name Billy Lurk. But in a satisfying twist, Bethesda has you hunting the Outsider, the mysterious and seemingly immortal entity who imbues select citizens of Dunwall with magic powers.
This expansion, called “Death of the Outsider,” is billed as the Dishonored universe’s first “standalone story,” meaning it’s not technically tied to the second game, though it appears to take place after the sequel’s end. Unlike the original game’s “The Knife of Dunwall” and “The Brigmore Witches” DLC packs, this one could be the beginning of a long string of episodic one-off experiences that further build out the series’ world, something that seems increasingly likely given the Dishonored 2’s poor sales performance. We don’t yet have pricing details, but as it is something larger, akin to Infamous: First Light, it may in the $30 to $40 range.
The trailer has Meagan, how with a cyborg eye and Corvo-like powers, freeing the assassin Daud in the first step toward the ultimate goal of eliminating the Outsider. So regardless of how much it costs, or how long it ends up being, “Death of the Outsider still looks like it could be the most intriguing and worthwhile Dishonored expansion yet.
We saw some very early experiments with Doom in virtual reality last year at E3. But now, Bethesda’s promising a new, discrete experience called Doom VFR, and it looks pretty fun. The game puts you into fights with Doom’s familiar demons, but per the trailer, you’ll get some pretty wild teleportation options — think jumping and pivoting in the air to blast a cacodemon. There’s no launch date, but it’s being released for PlayStation VR and HTC Vive.
Bethesda  reminded us that Fallout 4’s VR edition is still coming — and now we know it’ll be released in October for HTC Vive. Unlike Doom VFR, this looks a lot like a direct port of the non-VR Fallout into VR, which isn’t necessarily a good idea. Its core pitch is something like “Do all the things you’re used to in Fallout 4, but somewhat less efficiently!” I’m not saying it couldn’t be good, but I’m withholding judgment until I can try it for more than a few minutes, like I did last year.
Neither of these experiences got as much time as Bethesda’s big new non-VR games, but they’re some of the most substantive virtual reality we’ve seen at the show so far, after the complete absence of it from Microsoft’s Xbox One X event today.
Skyrim may be making a very-belated debut on Nintendo Switch, but when it does launch it’ll have at least a few notable additions in the form of gear pulled straight from Nintendo’s own The Legend of Zelda series. As you explore Bethesda’s open-world fantasy role-playing game, you’ll be able to make your hero look like Link in Breath of the Wild, and you can even wield the iconic Master Sword to take down foes. Unfortunately, it’s unclear whether or not you’ll be able to dress up as Tingle as well.
Skyrim is coming to Switch later this fall.
Microsoft started their E3 2017 press conference with the Xbox One X, previously called Project Scorpio. Before a number of surprise announcements starting with a real world Porsche that’ll feature in Forza Motorsport 7. Followed by PC phenomena PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds launching exclusively on the Xbox One, a release date for animated platformer Cuphead, a three episode prequel to Life is Strange, and a Crackdown 3 trailer starring Terry Crews.
We  got a look at the first gameplay of Assassin’s Creed: Origins, BioWare’s new sci-fi action RPG Anthem, Rare’s open sea pirate game Sea of Thieves, and a very nice looking lighting upgrade for Minecraft.
There were, alas no Halo or Gears of War this year.
Microsoft announced that the Xbox One is getting backwards compatibility support for original Xbox games at its E3 presentation, and now we know a little more about how that  actually work.
Per Microsoft’s Albert Penello (as spotted by our friends at Polygon) things should be pretty simple: Original Xbox discs  work, presumably as an authorization to access an emulated digital copy, similar to the way Xbox 360 emulation currently works on the Xbox One. If you own digital licenses to copies of original Xbox games from back in the day, those  transfer over too.
Your original Xbox discs  work. Digital licenses  carry over. AND you can system-link play across all three generations.
And most impressively, you’ll be able to play local multiplayer for old Xbox titles through system link, which  support all three generations of Microsoft’s consoles. That’s right, you’ll be able to to play supported games at a LAN party by wiring up an Xbox to an Xbox 360 to an Xbox One.
We still don’t know what original Xbox games are coming to the Xbox One, or when to expect the feature to roll out, but Microsoft should be showing off more about the feature over the next few days at E3.
Microsoft made good on its promise to reveal all the key details about Project Scorpio during its E3 press conference today. We got an official name, a price, and a release date: the Xbox One X, as it’s called,  start at $499 and  start shipping on November 7th. In a demo room following the company’s event, we got a look at the hardware in a side-by-side comparison with Microsoft’s cheaper Xbox One S console.
If you’re looking for a radically redesigned device, you  be disappointed. The new console looks pretty much identical to the developer kits we saw earlier this year, minus the OLED display, physical buttons, and real-time clock. In fact, there’s not all that much you can say about the One X itself other than that it just looks like an Xbox.
It’s shaped and designed just like the refreshed slim One S that Microsoft unveiled last summer — albeit slightly smaller. Microsoft’s Phil Spencer proudly proclaimed on stage that the Xbox One X is the smallest console the company has ever produced. It’s  a nice matte black. Microsoft didn’t say whether there would be color options, but it’s safe to say that, for now, the launch version  come in black only.
But the real changes are inside, underneath the generic Xbox shell. Microsoft says that it produces 6 teraflops of graphical power thanks to a custom GPU engine that runs at 1172MHz. Both those metrics put it noticeably ahead of Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro, which packs 4.2 teraflops running at 911MHz (in a package that’s $100 cheaper). For pretty much every new game Microsoft touted onstage — and it showed a lot, including 22 exclusives — the Xbox One X  hit 4K resolution and 60 frames per second.
That’s the real value Microsoft is trying to provide here. It doesn’t need to wow you with hardware so much as it needs to deliver on its promise of a premium experience capable of competing with a mid- to high-end PC gaming rig. There  always be the standard console tradeoffs — no upgradability and no choice of where to buy your games, to name a couple. But Microsoft took one step closer today to creating the game console it thinks the enthusiast world wants.



Microsoft’s Project Scorpio was one of the most anticipated announcements of E3, and now it has a name and a release date. It’s called the Xbox One X, and you’ll be able to buy it on November 7th, for the disappointingly high price of $499.
But that wasn’t the only thing that happened. We got release dates for some long-awaited games like Crackdown 3, our first look at new series installments like Assassins Creed Origins, and a lot of gameplay footage. There weren’t a lot of big surprises, but all in all, it wasn’t a bad show. You can read all the announcements here, or get the biggest news below.
We knew a lot about Microsoft’s new console before its official announcement, but we didn’t have its name, price, or release date. Xbox One X — as we already knew — is a souped-up successor to the Xbox One, with more graphical power than the comparable PlayStation 4 Pro. The One X supports 4K gameplay and promises “super sampling” that’s supposed to make graphics look better on 1080p TVs as well. It’s compatible with existing Xbox One accessories, and maintains support for backwards-compatible Xbox 360 games.
Unfortunately, we  got one very unwelcome rumor confirmed: the Xbox One X  cost $499, a hundred dollars more than the PlayStation 4 Pro.
The Xbox One already has backwards compatibility with a large collection of Xbox 360 games, but Microsoft went back another generation at this E3, announcing that it’ll roll out support for some original Xbox games too. One of the first  be beloved flight game Crimson Skies; we’ll be learning more about the program later this year.
Microsoft has been dragging out the Crackdown 3 announcement for years, but now the explosive shooter has a release date: November 7th, the same day as the Xbox One X’s launch. That’s cool, but for now, the best thing about this trailer by far is a guest appearance from Terry Crews.
Assassin’s Creed Origins is about a magi (“An Egyptian sheriff, if you like”) who returns home to kill an oracle and his henchmen with a lot of pleasantly over-the-top powers. You can scope out situations with a pet bird, and when you shoot your bow, you can leap into an arrow’s-eye view and guide its course. The short glimpse we got of gameplay suggests that you’ll get some Dark Souls-tinged combat, RPG-style loot, and complex customization options, too. The game is coming out October 27th on all platforms.
That’s 250 more cars than Forza Motorsport 6, which boasted what we can all agree was a frankly pathetic 450 cars. From what we’ve seen, Forza 7 is  the graphical powerhouse you’d expect. It runs at 60 frames per second at 4K resolution, rendering cars in hyper-realistic detail. You can go read more in my colleague Sean O’Kane’s deep dive on the game’s development, and the game itself goes on sale October 3rd.
Anthem’s teaser trailer showed up during yesterday’s EA event, but this was the first time we saw any gameplay. Developed by BioWare, the title is supposed to be a narratively compelling cooperative game, but it hasn’t really distinguished itself from shooters like Destiny, except for one thing: jetpacks. You can fly around some kind of tropical alien landscape with your friends, and that looks awesome. However awesome (or not) the rest of the game turns out to be, it’ll be released in 2018.
You: the story is great and it's got sweet guns!Me: So?You: ... there are jetpacksMe: *spamming the Buy button*
Turn 10 Studios announced Forza Motorsport 7 today during Microsoft’s E3 press conference, and it’s primed to be the best-looking and most feature-dense entry in the series. The game was tailor-made to take advantage of the new Xbox One X’s added horsepower, which should render the game in 4K resolution and 60 frames per second.
This  the first full Forza Motorsport game to hit PC. (The series has tested the Windows 10 water with Forza Motorsport 6: Apex and Forza Horizon 3.) And if you want the cars, the tracks, the raindrops on the windshield to look their absolute, pixel-perfect best, the Windows 10 version — with the help of some top of the line GPU —  be the best choice.
But the real advantage isn’t necessarily what you’d expect. The key difference, according to developers,  be the PC’s adaptability — being able to use more types of controllers and wheels, for example. Here’s what some of the head folks responsible for Forza Motorsport said when I asked them about PC vs. what at the time was still called Project Scorpio:
“Oh, of course, of course [PC  be better]. I don't know what that gap is come this winter when we ship the console. But there'll be a gap. You can go spend however much you need to spend to get over it. Obviously, you can throw ten thousand plus dollars into your PC and build a killer rig, you can do multiscreen. That's not what the console's trying to be. The console is trying to be an entertainment device you just take into your living room, plug it in and you’re up and going. The PC commitment's a different layer.
“The biggest difference from a game creator between the PC environment or the console environment is the efficiency we get out of the console hardware because it's just a known platform. We know exactly how long it takes to transfer a texture from one place to another. We can map that out. We can make sure we have no gaps, no stalls. And we can just be super efficient in what we get. So we get a lot more out of the fixed console. There is no fixed PC right hardware config, right? So you have to build that adaptability into your code and that flexibility, and you just can't assume things are going to work the same way.
“That actually ends up being a pretty big performance boost. And it's where when I get the, you know, the teardowns, which we'll have on Scorpio where they'll take all the pieces out and try and do the off-the-shelf PC and say, ‘Well this is the PC that equals the Scorpio’ — it just isn't. You'd need to go do that and add another 30 percent to your specs to make sure you're going to get the performance we get.”
“I've got this Lancer Evo, and it's got a Vishnu turbo set. It's getting up to 700 horsepower. That's all well and good, but you know a 500 horsepower Ferrari is going to be a lot faster. It's just got a better suspension and better integration. So it's fun to talk about the specs, but when you've got something that's so perfectly integrated, the speed actually comes from the integration not from the individual hardware.”
“I mean as much as the platform's done a great job at providing a common environment for us to develop almost the same title on both PC and Xbox, theres a lot of things we learn. As we would performance optimize, we'll have different levels of features, and those eventually show up as the scalers that a PC gamer gets in their version, and so they are now more like first class citizens in our engine.
“But in the end we can never — the thing that we've done in our history of being able to tune and deliver this very curated, 'Here's what the game does when it plays super smooth 60 frames a second native resolution,’ right? Because we've been native since the beginning. That's at our core and our heart of how we how we develop our content — how we write the code, how we test what we're finally shipping is everybody's tuning to deliver that experience on a very fixed device. We can target that with PC, but in a lot of ways there's things that just get in the way. It's still not a pure ‘I am here for gaming’ device.
“PC gaming is great. I'm not saying it's not. But the purity of what you get out of a console — a box that's been purpose built to play games and not only play games but with Scorpio, to play 4K games — it amazed us from the beginning because we were turning on every knob we had in our ultra PC settings. And everything is built that way — that the box is built that way, the OS is built that way, that the graphics drivers and end libraries those are built that way — and our engine is tuned to fit on that. It means that we can squeeze even more into that that critical frame time of, ‘We want to get in front of the player.’”
BioWare revealed the first full look at its ambitious new game, Anthem, today at Microsoft’s E3 press conference. In Anthem, players  act as exosuit-wearing “freelancers” exploring a sci-fi open-world.
Game director Jon Warner presented the footage, which featured a quest to save a gang of fellow freelancers. The mission unfolded through an exploration of a lush, jungle-like area. “The world of Anthem is hostile, and threats can come from any direction,” Warner said. In addition to enemies in the wild, players   have to be wary of dynamic weather events called “shaper storms.”
Anthem has been rumored as EA’s answer to games like Destiny. Casey Hudson, the executive producer on the original Mass Effect trilogy, founded a new team at BioWare Edmonton years ago to create the brand new IP. According to Kotaku, that project has long been codenamed Dylan, an indicator of the team’s lofty goal to make “the Bob Dylan of video games—one that would be referenced for years to come.”
At EA’s press conference yesterday, we got our first official look at the game: a brief trailer that teased a world in which players would “either live with the choices they make, or die trying to change them.”
EA CEO Andrew Wilson, in an earnings call in May, briefly touched on the progress of BioWare’s new action IP. “The game is built around a live service, and through our creative process, we've decided to add more to the disruptive new social designs for our players,” he said.
The game  launch in 2018.



Microsoft is bringing original Xbox games to the Xbox One. After launching Xbox 360 backwards compatibility at E3 last year, Microsoft is surprising gamers again with original Xbox games. Crimson Skies is one of the first titles planned for the new backwards compatibility, and Xbox chief Phil Spencer promises that original Xbox games  "look better and play better across the Xbox One family."
The original Xbox games support  launch later this year, and it's likely that Microsoft  trial it with Xbox Insiders in the coming months.
Time travelling teen drama Life is Strange is getting a new season, which  serve as a prequel to the original 2015 game. The new arc is called “Before the Storm” and  be spread across three episodes.
Related
The original Life is Strange starred high school student Max, an aspiring photographer who learns she has the power to rewind time. The narrative-focused experience centered around Max’s budding power, which she could use to change events and reshape the future. It was a gripping story that melded elements of TV shows like Veronica Mars and Twin Peaks, with the gameplay of episodic adventures from Telltale Games.
The first episode of the new Life is Strange arc  debut on August 31st. Meanwhile, a live-action series based on the series is  in the works.
Ori and the Blind Forest is one of the best Xbox One games ever made, with polished, Metroidvania-style gameplay, a haunting soundtrack, and gorgeous, painted art that brings to mind the best of traditional animation. And today at its E3 keynote, Microsoft announced a sequel, titled Ori and the  of the Wisps.
Microsoft didn’t show off any gameplay footage from the sequel, but presumably it  feature similar Metroidvania gameplay and once again star Ori — the titular catlike guardian spirit from the first game. The cinematic trailer showcases a few similarly beautiful environments, before cutting to a show of Ori consoling a sad owlet gazing out at the skeletons of what are presumably its parents.
Ori and the  of the Wisps is exclusive to the Xbox One and Windows 10 Store, although there’s no release date yet.
Microsoft revealed its new Xbox One X console on stage at E3 earlier today, and now the company is announcing the price: $499. The new gaming console  debut on November 7th priced at $499, exactly $100 more than its main competition the PlayStation 4 Pro. The Xbox One X is more powerful at 6 teraflops of graphical power vs. the 4.2 teraflops found on the PlayStation 4 Pro, and it  includes an Ultra HD Blu-ray drive.
The $100 price different  still be a point of discussion for gamers interested in both Microsoft and Sony's consoles. Sony is planning to hold its own E3 press conference tomorrow night at 6PM PT / 9PM ET, and its possible the company could announce its own PS4 Pro price cut to counter Microsoft's more powerful console. Either way, games  be the key to the success of both the Xbox One X and the existing Xbox One S, and Microsoft has focused heavily on those at E3 today.
Microsoft has finally announced a release date for Cuphead, the classic animation-inspired platformer / shooter from developer Studio MDHR: September 29th.
Along with the release date, Studio MDHR has a brief new trailer showing off more Cuphead gameplay, highlighting a bit of the platforming and combat. The game still looks incredible from an art perspective, with seemingly hand-drawn animations that look like they walked right off Walt Disney’s desk in the 1930s.
That release  mark the end of a long road for development for the stylistic indie game, which was first announced over three years ago at E3 2014. Since then, Cuphead has been delayed multiple times, but it sounds like we’ll finally get to see whether Studio MDHR has put together a game that plays as good as it looks this fall.
Today, the game has  appeared for pre-order on Steam.
Cuphead is available as an Xbox Play Anywhere title on Windows 10, Xbox One, and Steam on September 29th.
Crackdown 3 went MIA following its last gameplay demo at Gamescom 2015. Naturally, its E3 2017 trailer is making up for lost time. The footage is dense with explosives, heavy weapons, and robots, all rendered in the series’s neon art style.
Terry Crews  makes a guest appearance. Because why not.
Announced at E3 2014, Crackdown 3 was supposed to use cloud computing to produce extravagant environmental destruction in the game’s open world city. The trailer, along with future gameplay demos, showed characters knocking down office complexes and skyscrapers. But Microsoft tweaked expectations in 2015, clarifying that the massive destruction would be limited to multiplayer play, and that single-player play, developed by Sumo Digital, wouldn’t feature the benefits of cloud computing.
Crackdown 3 is scheduled for release on Xbox One and Windows 10 on November 7.
Rare’s ambitious pirate game, Sea of Thieves,  take you beyond the ocean waters of previous demos. The developer showed off new footage today at Microsoft’s E3 press conference, featuring underwater exploration and a search for treasure on a tropical island.
In Sea of Thieves, players have to team up to keep their ships up and running. That includes readying the sails, steering the ship, and manning the cannons, in addition to on-shore exploration. Rare showed off the first gameplay last year, a video that showed off how quickly battles can lead to the end of your ship.
Post-swim, the footage today offered a look at treasure hunting across beaches and through caves. Even if you successfully locate your bounty, there’s a good chance you’ll have to fight to keep it from other players. Sea of Thieves  launch in early 2018.

In 2014, developers Tim and Adrien Soret released a short playable teaser called The Last Night, which transported the style and vibe of cyberpunk adventures like Blade Runner into a 2D, pixel art game. Now the pair have shown off what the final version of the game  look like —  and it’s absolutely gorgeous. The creators describe the setting as a “two-dimensional cyberpunk open world,” with four unique districts to explore. Meanwhile, the gameplay itself, which is billed as a “cinematic platformer,” looks reminiscent of classics like Another World.
The Last Night  be coming to both Xbox One and PC in 2018.
Minecraft is getting a new look this fall with a “Super Duper Graphics Pack” update that adds more realistic textures, light effects, and graphics to the popular block building game, including full 4K resolution on the Xbox One X console. Were you concerned about the lack of ultra-realistic water with reflections in Minecraft until now? Well, worry no longer.
 announced was the Better Together Update, which adds a new community marketplace for players to sell creations, new in-game servers to play together, and an interesting first — cross platform play between different platforms, including Xbox One, Windows 10, the Nintendo Switch, and a variety of mobile devices.
The 4K graphics is set to release this fall, with the rest of the Better Together features coming soon.
Did Metro 2033 and its sequel Metro: Last Light not sate your thirst for shooting mutant animals in an eerily beautiful post-apocalyptic future? Well, developer 4A Games is releasing a new installment of the series — Metro Exodus — in 2018 for Windows and the Xbox One.
Like its predecessors, Metro Exodus is based on the series of novels from Russian author Dmitry Glukhovsky, in which the last survivors of a nuclear war survive underground in subway networks. In this trailer, that requires some handy work with a knife and crossbow, before your protagonist escapes on a steam engine. We don’t know a lot about the game yet, but the trailer is cinematic and bleakly gorgeous.
Exodus isn’t 4A’s only upcoming title — it’s  working on Arktika.1, another post-apocalyptic shooter set for late 2017 release on the Oculus Rift. Truly, we’re in for a cornucopia of futuristic misery.
At its big E3 keynote today, Microsoft provided a better look at its upcoming Xbox One survival game State of Decay 2. The game, which was first revealed last year, expands on the original Xbox 360 game with an open-world setting and cooperative gameplay that forces you to survive the zombie apocalypse alongside other players. That includes fighting off the typical undead hordes, as well as giant zombies with glowing red eyes. The game  let players build their own shelters, while  dealing with other conditions like hunger and the weather.
Here’s how the developers describe the set-up:
18 months after the zombie apocalypse, the military abandons a refugee camp in small-town America. Those left behind must band together to survive the fall of civilization and the rise of the undead. In State of Decay 2, it’s up to you to gather survivors, build a community, and redefine what it means to survive.
State of Decay 2  be exclusive to Xbox One and Windows 10, and  launch in spring 2018.
Developing. Check out our E3 hub for all the news, trailers, and updates!
PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds  launch as an exclusive to the Xbox One later this year, as announced at Microsoft’s big E3 showcase. Developer Brendan Greene took the stage to announce the news, noting the the port would  include enhancements for the Xbox One X when it comes out.
If you’re not familar with PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds (PUBG), it’s sort of like The Hunger Games or Battle Royale put into video game form. In the game, 100 players are dropped onto an island, left to forage for weapons, vehicles, and supplies, and duke it out until only one player is left standings. Released on PC earlier this year, the game has since become a massive hit, especially inside the streaming community.
PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds releases for Xbox One in “late 2017.”
Ubisoft’s next entry in the Assassin’s Creed franchise, Assassin’s Creed Origins,  launch October 27th. The game was announced today at E3 2017 during Microsoft’s press conference.
Assassin’s Creed Origins  take place in ancient Egypt, confirmed Jean Guesdon, the game’s creative director. Origins  tell the story of one man, the last magi and protector of his community. “An Egyptian sheriff, if you like,” Guesdon said.
Footage of the game showed off Siwa, home of the game’s lead character. In addition to the usual sneaking and stabbing, players  be able to scout out the area by sending a pet bird soaring into the air, controlling the flight of an arrow, and collecting RPG-style loot from fallen enemies.
Rumors about the new game have been circling the web for some time. In May, an image of a character in a wooden sailboat, on a mission to go “assassinate the Crocodile” was posted to — and later deleted from — Reddit. The image was later corroborated by Eurogamer. Last week, a retailer leak teased more of the Egyptian setting.
Forza Motorsport 7 was just announced at E3, and we’ve got an exclusive first look at the game, which you can see above. The first Forza for Microsoft’s new Xbox One X  take advantage of the console’s boost in power to run natively in 4K at 60 frames per second. The 5-minute clip shows off what that looks like with a quick race in a Nissan GT-R at Nürburgring.
That clip  shows off something else: Forza Motorsport 7 finally brings dynamic weather to the series. It goes way beyond the simple “rain” and “night” modes introduced in Forza 6 — every time you race, and even during the races (as you can see above), the weather  be different, and the tracks respond in kind. Puddles  build as the rain keeps pounding down, and severe heat in the game’s new featured track — Dubai —  affect how fast your tires wear, and more.
We  got an exclusive hands-on look at the game in the weeks leading up to E3, which you can read about in this feature. But here’s a short breakdown of what else to expect in Forza Motorsport 7:
Developing. Check out our E3 hub for all the news, trailers, and updates!
Porsche just announced the 911 GT2 RS, a monster of a real-wheel drive sports car with nearly 700 horsepower powered by a 3.8-liter twin-turbo engine. But the announcement didn’t come in Geneva, or Detroit, or even New York. No, the new Porsche was unveiled in Los Angeles, on the Electronic Entertainment Expo stage. Yes, Porsche just dropped a car at E3.
E3 isn’t the first place you’d expect one of the world’s biggest sports car brands to unveil a new car like the 911 GT2 RS. But then again, until this past year, you couldn’t drive a Porsche in most of the top-tier racing games because of an exclusive licensing deal with Electronic Arts. Now that that deal is dead, Porsche is showing up everywhere in the video game world — including the newly-announced Forza Motorsport 7.
In fact, the GT2 RS is the cover car for Forza 7, which comes out this fall on Project Scorpio, PC, and Xbox One. And while test mules of the car have been spotted (and even driven) for months, this was the first time the public’s seen the final thing.
This is just the latest — and one of the more extreme — example of the how the auto industry is reacting to being pulled in all sorts of new directions. Over the last few years, for example, the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas has become a venue for flashy car announcements to the point that it’s siphoned some of the excitement from the North American International Auto Show in Detroit.
Microsoft and Turn 10 studios have officially pulled the wraps off of Forza Motorsport 7, the first Forza designed to run on Xbox One X, Microsoft’s next-generation console. Last month, I went to Turn 10’s offices to see Forza ahead of its E3 debut. I spent a little under 30 minutes playing the game, and the rest of the trip speaking with the team that brought it to life.
A half hour isn’t enough time to provide a deep dive, but here’s what I can say. It’s the most beautiful Forza Motorsport ever. While it’s playable on Xbox One and   be released on PC, it was really built for — and alongside the development of — what was then still called Project Scorpio, which means it  run natively at 60 frames per second at 4K resolution.
The cars look lifelike in most lighting, the tracks look good enough to walk around, and the skies in the demo were so picturesque I occasionally had a hard time watching the road. Speaking as someone who has an old 1080p screen on his wall, this is the kind of game that  make people like me think: maybe this is the year I buy a better TV.
There’s  more of, well, everything. Turn 10 is offering 700 cars at launch, nearly lapping the 450 from Forza Motorsport 6 — and that includes the return of Porsche. There are 30 tracks (or locations) with more than 200 different configurations for players to run. The weather and night modes that were added in Forza 6 are no longer just modes: there’s a fully dynamic weather system that changes with every race, sometimes even during the race. You can see the horizon shimmer in the distance on hot tracks. The puddles now change in real time when it pours, and on some tracks you can see the rain approaching off in the distance.
Forza 7 primarily leverages the new console’s power in order to emphasize realism. Wires, tubes, and the mirrors inside the cockpits of the race cars rattle in response to the bumps on the tarmac. Window netting ripples in the periphery as the wind whips by at 100 miles per hour. Even the windshield wipers shake as you barrel around a course.
While Turn 10 hasn’t radically redefined the racing game, Forza 7 looks, at first glance, like a considerable visual upgrade compared to its last two predecessors. But it won’t be the only racing game to run at 4K and 60p for long. So instead, the studio has been working on an entirely new challenge: making its car game more human.
A bell rings.
I’m at Turn 10’s headquarters, which is tucked into a business park hugged by trees about a drag race away from Microsoft’s home base in Redmond, Washington. And when I ask what the bell’s for, nobody's quite sure. The team’s so burdened by E3 prep that they’ve forgotten their Pavlovian responses.
“We’ve been basically living here, so if you smell some smells — forgive us,” Dan Greenawalt, Forza’s creative director and a founder of Turn 10, tells me when I walk through the door. There are 18 days until Greenawalt  hop on stage at E3 to show off what the studio has spent the last two years working on. As if that’s not enough weight on their shoulders, Forza Motorsport 7 is a Scorpio launch title, so it  serve as an early standard bearer for the console.
Eventually I learn the bell was for some newly-met goal, but nobody takes a moment to really celebrate. They’re too giddy talking about the game. Spirits are up in Redmond. The team seems surprisingly rested, composed, and focused. That’s because Turn 10 is in the most enviable position for a game developer: Forza 7 is ahead of schedule.
Not only has the game been running on Scorpio dev kits for a while now, it’s been running really well. At one point, I tried basically the same tech demo the folks at Digital Foundry wrote about, where the full field of cars was locked to a grid like a roller coaster, putting more of them in view than you’d typically see during a race. This is one way the software team tests the game’s limits, and yet it was only pushing about 80 percent of the GPU and about 70 percent of the CPU.
That’s impressive for a game that’s months away from release. Of the time I spent playing and watching other parts of Forza 7, the only truly unfinished bits visible to me were some of the menu graphics.
Forza 7 wouldn’t be this far along if it wasn’t for the partnership Turn 10 started a few years ago with UK-based Playground Studios, which makes the more arcade-style Forza Horizon series using the same Forza Tech game engine that Motorsport is built on. By staggering the release of Horizon in the years where there is no Motorsport, the teams are able to share knowledge and accelerate the pace of development.
Chris Tector, the team’s software architect, calls that decision a turning point for the franchise. “We can actually share those features back and forth between the titles, and it means both of them can become better with each release, more than they would if they were being developed in isolation,” Tector says.
It’s this approach that carved out room to add features like dynamic weather and an entirely new character component, Greenawalt explains, while  dramatically increasing the number of cars and tracks — all as the team preps the game engine to run in 4K.
“You go, hey, I've got this great team that can build anything. Let's not have them build everything,” says Greenawalt. “It allows that big team, instead of trying to just boil the ocean and do everything, they focus all that innovation in one place and can go in incredible areas.”
The other big piece to getting Forza 7 ahead of schedule, though, is that Turn 10 has been developing the new game alongside Project Scorpio since the beginning. For a while, Turn 10 used simulations of the Scorpio hardware. Eventually, though, it came time to fire up the game on the real thing.
“I was coming back from lunch and [Tector] came over, and he was vibrating,” says Alan Hartman, the studio head for Turn 10. “He was like, ‘we're running on Scorpio, you want to see it?’” Hartman followed him over to a conference room that had its windows blacked out. “I come in and I see the fan pointed at the circuit board and the ribbon cables strung out and brought around to the monitor. And sure enough, there we are, running.”
Running smoothly, even. “Typically,” Hartman says, “you get it working, and it's running at 10 frames a second, and you go ‘okay, now I have to work weekends to get it working fast.’ It's super advantageous, because we get to focus on the game, not trying to build the tech layer.”
“We talk a lot about finding the fun,” Greenawalt adds. “You do all this work so that you're starting from a pretty fun place, but let's be honest — it's a hypothetical fun place until you get [the game] in your hands. And when you’re fighting the technology, just to get it to run, getting it stable, you can't find that fun, because it's all coming together at the last second.”
Scorpio has already been touted for its head-spinning specs ahead of the official reveal. It cranks 6 teraflops of power, has 12GB of GDDR5 RAM, and a custom GPU that runs at 1172MHz. All which means it’s set to be the most powerful home console on the market.
That power is great for the looks and performance. But Turn 10's true focus in Forza Motorsport 7 is on something that raw power can't guarantee, something that  be a part of Forza going forward no matter which version you play.
While many of the people at Turn 10 appear well-rested, the mottled hair and the bags under Scott Lee’s eyes are a sign some have definitely lost some sleep over Forza 7. As the lead art director, Lee’s been shepherding one of the game’s most defining features: the addition of customizable characters.
Lee’s small character team has funneled a ton of effort into creating absurd levels of detail for the now more prominent driver, by building out a catalog of racing suits, helmets, gloves, and more. The game has over 300 character designs, and about a week or more of work went into each. There are female and male models, and different “silhouettes,” or body types, for both, each of which took around five weeks to design.
What’s more, each one of the five discrete pieces that makes up a character (the helmet, the suit, etc.) has its own 4K asset. Zoom in on a helmet and you’ll see realistic scuffs and smudges on the visor — and on some special helmets, signatures that look like they were just Sharpie-d on.
That might sound like a strange amount of attention spent on something you won’t see much of while you’re racing. But for a good chunk of Forza Motorsport 7, you actually  see your driver. Turn 10 has completely revamped its menu system to put an emphasis on showing off these characters. For example, the pre-race screen that shows up before you start a multiplayer race is now fashioned more like a loadout screen in a shooting game. There are menu options on the left, and your character stands swaying on the right, as if she’s itching to hop in and drive.
Characters   show up at the ends of races, podium-style, with the winner front and center looking proud, and the third-place finisher turned slightly away from the camera as if they’re already plotting revenge. Your character’s look  even now represent you when you show up in friends’ games as “drivatars,” a feature introduced back in Forza 5.
Players  be able to choose between everything from real race suits with HANS devices, to old-timey outfits with leather helmets, to some even goofier additions from pop culture. (Expect a lot of “era-specific inside jokes,” Lee laughs. “There's a lot of middle-aged people that work here.”) With Forza featuring real racing series like IndyCar and NASCAR, you can  expect to see some more iconic suits as well, set to be announced later this summer.
While diehard fans are always going to want more cars and tracks, the game has long passed the point where it lacked in either of those departments. One thing it has been missing, though, is a way for players to represent themselves beyond the badge on a car’s hood. Bringing characters front and center seems to be a reaction to that critique, a step towards making players care more about what, and how, they do in the game.
“I think [the characters] might be the coolest opportunity for us to really kind of depart from Forzas in the past,” Lee says, though he admits it won’t be as deep as the character creation tools in other sports games. And it isn’t as focused on story as something like Madden’s new Longshot mode. But he thinks it’s a good foundation on which to build. “I think it's really kind of a nod to where we want to go with the franchise,” Lee explains. “I feel like the car becomes a lot more personal, it's ‘oh it belongs to somebody, it's something.’”
Looks are a huge part of Forza, but you don’t play racing games on mute. Sound is crucial to an immersive experience, and so even Chase Combs, the game’s audio director, has spent the last two years trying to find ways to make Forza 7 grab the attention of your ears as much as your eyes. That starts with abandoning the sweeping cinematic score of Forza 6 in favor of a soundtrack you might mistake for what’s found in modern-day beer commercials.
“We ended up kind of going with something that felt a little more rooted in what you might hear in a garage, you know? That automotive spirit,” Combs says.
But Combs and his team went further than just shifting genres. The music in the game (which you can customize with your own songs if you’re not big fan of power chords) follows you as you hop around the different environments. It  dynamically adapts to those environments.
Go from the main menus to the garage to start tuning one of your cars, and suddenly the music sounds like it’s coming from a radio on the other side of the room. Hop into Forzavista mode, get in the car, and it  muffle. Jump over to the car selection menu, where your character is standing on a stage, and the music sounds like it’s coming through stadium speakers.
This follows through to the races, too. As you drive around each course, the game’s soundtrack  flash by you as you pass the track’s speakers.
“A goal of mine,” Combs says, was to “make [the music] a character in the game, not just something that we lay on top of the game and people kind of turn off. I wanted to make it feel like it was actually seated in the environment.”
It’s a slick effect, but music is less than half the battle when it comes to the sound of a racing game. The cars need to sound as real as they look, too.
“We think audio is critical component of that sense of speed and the kind of violent or exciting nature of racing. At times it's complete cacophony, tons of noise, rocks hitting the underbody of the car,” he says. “With race cars in particular, you have no noise insulation, and so it's just like this like giant resonating metal box.”
To get all that right, Turn 10 struck up a partnership with Warner Brothers, which got them access to some of the more rare cars that appear in the game. “We could come to them with a list of cars, and they could just go off and do all that,” Combs says. “Getting an actual race transmission has always been a challenge for us and we think that's a critical component of what a race car sounds like.”
The end result is a game that sounds remarkably lifelike without all the different layers — the screaming engines, squealing tires, doors slamming, and the rock soundtrack — muddying each other up. You can hear the air being sucked into the engine at the same time that, say, your tires hit the gravel when you slip off the curbing of a track. There’s enough space in the mix for the click-thud of shifting gears, the raindrops hitting the windshield, and the spray coming off the tires to play together, not against each other.
Of course, Combs shows me all this in one of his small sound editing studios. So what about the rest of us schmucks playing through the tiny, drilled speaker holes on our flatscreens?
That’s a question Combs thinks a lot about, he says, especially when it comes to car crashes. “There is an initial instinct when you're making collision sounds to try to just, like I'm gonna juice the bass. But we know that with those speakers, anything below 200 hertz or more, [they] just can't reproduce it,” he says.
Combs has a switch on his desk that he can flip to funnel the sound through two desktop speakers, and that his team  often head out to one of the common areas and use the TVs there. That way, hopefully, their work can be heard no matter where you play. Good audio doesn’t sell games, but Turn 10 hopes it  be just as engaging as the new characters, and as exciting as the cars themselves.
Adding customizable characters and doing tricky things with the sound might seem ancillary to the core Forza experience. But with Scorpio letting the team max out the graphics and the racing engine, these are the ways Turn 10 is trying to grow its customer base beyond the 4 million players it already claims.
How do you do that? Well, for one thing, this  be the first full Forza title available on PC. There, the company hopes to court the same increasingly diverse sets of players (namely: women and kids, but  competitors in the Forza Championship series) that it says has come to the game on Xbox in recent years. One way of doing that  be through sheer compatibility — Turn 10 says it has tested everything from PlayStation DualShocks to pro racing wheels to Guitar Hero controllers, and all of them work with Forza 7 on PC.
And yes, Forza is more approachable these days. It’s tempting to think of Horizon as the game for non-racers, and Motorsport for the diehards. But the number of driver assists and the freeing up of the campaign has made Motorsport almost as accessible to new players. There  be more of that in Forza Motorsport 7. One particular new option is a “friction assist,” which lets the player turn up or down how severely they’ll be affected by driving off track.
“For some players, if you've got licensed cars, and you've got realistic graphics, you are as realistic as is required,” Greenawalt says. “We keep pushing the physics system further and further and further, and I think it's understandable that people would go ‘wow, if you do that then you've made it inaccessible.’ That's not been the case.” Or, as Hartman puts it, “realism and punishing don't have to go together.”
In that way, Turn 10 is redefining realism. Or at the very least, widening the focus of the definition to include the more human aspects of being a racer: the way your body jostles in the seat, the sound and fury that comes with pushing a car to its limits, the silly stickers that can be plastered over a helmet. Forza Motorsport 7 is all about creating the feeling that you’re a great driver — whether or not the computer’s helping.
That’s why Greenawalt thinks pushing for unpolished realism through things like scuffed helmets and garage-speaker sound is so important. Turn 10 has already mastered making glossy racing games. To grow, it has to stop buffing out the dings that make things feel familiar and real. “What makes cars more relatable is the human hands that made them, and yes, those create imperfections,” he says. “But it's the imperfections that really bring it to life.”

Edited by Chris Plante and Casey Newton.



After months of speculation, Microsoft is unveiling its “Project Scorpio” games console today, and it's officially named Xbox One X. Microsoft's Xbox One X naming comes just days after the company trademarked a mysterious S logo, and started dropping Scorpio hints in its E3 teaser videos. Microsoft is planning to launch the Xbox One X on November 7th worldwide, priced at $499.
All existing Xbox One accessories  work on the new Xbox One X — which we got to see first-hand at E3 today — alongside all existing Xbox 360 backwards compatible titles and Xbox One games. Microsoft is planning to use "super sampling" on the One X to make new games look better even on 1080p TVs.
Related
The new console  ship with 6 teraflops of graphical power, more than its main competitor, the PS4 Pro, with 4.2 teraflops. Microsoft is using a custom GPU engine on Scorpio that runs at 1172MHz, a big increase over the Xbox One’s 853MHz and even Sony’s 911MHz found on the PS4 Pro. Microsoft is  shipping the Xbox One X with an Ultra HD Blu-ray drive for 4K movies and entertainment, and 1TB of storage.
Microsoft has previously promised that 900p and 1080p Xbox One games should be able to run at native 4K on the Xbox One X, and that existing Xbox One and 360 games  see a noticeable performance boost. Scorpio  features liquid-cooled vapor-chamber cooling inside, a technology that's used on high-end PC gaming cards like the GTX 1080.
Microsoft says the new Xbox One X is the "smallest Xbox ever," and the black design looks very similar to the existing Xbox One S model. The rear of Microsoft’s new console is based on the Xbox One S, with a HDMI-in port and no dedicated Kinect port. There aren't many external changes over the Xbox One S design, and the X simply gets a little smaller. For now, Microsoft is only shipping the Xbox One X with the black design and 1TB of storage.
One of the first titles for the new console is Forza Motorsport 7, running at native 4K and 60fps. For a closer look at the latest Forza, check out our feature or watch exclusive gameplay below. Forza Motorsport 7  debut on October 3rd.
Microsoft has 22 "console launch exclusives" arriving on the Xbox One X, including Crackdown 3, Forza Motorsport 7, and Sea of Thieves. Microsoft's Xbox chief, Phil Spencer, introduced a number of new titles and left most of the company's E3 press conference up to the games themselves. Microsoft is even bringing original Xbox games to the Xbox One family, starting with Crimson Skies.
Gears of War 4, Forza Horizon 3, Killer Instinct, Halo Wars 2, and Minecraft  all be updated free of charge to 4K support. Microsoft  has more than 30 third-party titles that  be updated with the Xbox One X Enhanced program. The new Xbox One X  now debut worldwide on November 7th, priced at $499, £449, 499 euro, 599 Canadian dollars, and 649 Australian dollars.
Microsoft is expected to unveil a name and details for its Project Scorpio device during its E3 2017 press event, beginning at 5PM ET. The presentation is expected to run longer than 90 minutes, which seems to indicate that we’re in for quite a lot of information about the hardware, along with numerous announcements for its upcoming games. Follow along for all of the updates, videos, and gameplay.
Moscow is home to the Exhibition of Achievements of National Economy, an enormous recreation and museum complex. One of its buildings is decked out with a spectacular exterior that’s designed to look like the conductive tracks on a circuit board.
The building in question is the Pavilion of Moscow Information Technology Department, a 1,600 square meter presentation space that showcases Russia’s electrical achievements. Russian architectural firm Wall designed the exterior of the pavilion in 2016, according to Dezeen. The outer panels were formed out of concrete in a local factory, and house an exhibition space, business center, and children’s play area.
Архитектурное бюро WALL |
[МАТРИЦА] | павильон [ДИТ] | ВДНХ | барельеф | бетон | 2016
Архитектурное бюро  WALL |
[МАТРИЦА] | павильон [ДИТ] | ВДНХ | барельеф | бетон | 2016
The structure is supposed to stand for another ten years, and the result is really something. The detailing adds an intriguing texture to the walls, which lends itself nicely to the purpose of the building itself: promoting the country’s technological achievements.
Related
Who says a wheel has to be round? On the Aston Martin DB11 steering wheel, square is the new round.
I use the description “square” loosely. It’s not a perfect square, but rather it tapers off in more pronounced angle in the tradition of the 820 horsepower Vulcan supercar and its smart steering wheel. Thick and sculptural, it was the first thing I noticed when I climbed into the cockpit to test drive this James Bond-inspired sports car. The shape of the DB11 wheel gives this $214,000 vehicle a sense of purpose.
The wheel is cast in an oblong shape, which means that you can  see more of the dashboard and the pedals peeking through. Its coated in hand-stitched, buttery caramel leather, which emphasizes the embossed wings of the Aston Martin logo. The effect is stunning and it’s almost as if the wheel is beckoning you to climb in and take it for a spin. And what this form adds to the interior is a powerful message to a driver in the age of smart-phone distraction: keep your hands at nine and three o’clock.
It’s not the first time Aston Martin has toyed with this squarish-round shape. It’s gleaned from the rare 2010 one-77 hyper car of which 77 examples were made, and is now standard on the DB11 flagship. Until now, this wheel shape has only been sold as a pricy option available on the Vanquish. On the DB11, this obtuse wheel is the first of its kind equipped with electric power-assisted steering. Memories of the not-so-amazing Ford steering wheel used on an early 2000s Vantage model over a decade ago are placed in the distant rear view mirror.
The lush shape  helps distract from the physical black controls placed on the side, which are the most the company has used in a production car, and include the thumb buttons that maneuver transmission modes, the home screen, telephone, volume knob, and are all part and parcel of the brand’s technical partnership with Daimler. The plasticky black paddle controls are tucked neatly behind the wheel, ensuring that your hands never stray far.
It’s easy to overlook details such as the shape of the wheel on a car that boasts a stunning exterior, designed by Marek Reichman and his team. In reality, car designers agonize over these complex and highly engineered bits for hours. The steering wheel engages multiple senses. Its tactile feel is the key connection between the driver and the road. In the case of a sports car like the DB11, it’s the connection between the joy of opening up the engine and laying down the throttle as you’re coming out of an apex of a turn into a straightway, or perhaps breezing by the water along the Amalfi coast, zipping from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 4 seconds flat.
The steering wheel has its own history independent of the automobile. Steering wheels were first widely used on 19th century ships. But the image of a captain navigating a wheel large in diameter to bring his ship to shore is far removed from the slick wheels we see in contemporary sports car. Steering in the first motor cars were controlled by levers, which gave way to wooden wheels. While Francis W Davis invented power steering in the 1920s, the feature didn’t become popular in cars until the 1950s, after hydraulics systems were popularized and Chrysler used it in the Imperial. But in recent years, Aston Martin, like many automakers, has switched to electric power assisted steering, which means that an electric motor controls the wheel. While the jury is still out on the responsiveness, these systems are only getting better and more accurate than the hydraulic counterparts.
But technical performance and function aside, the exterior shape of the wheel in this case is more referential. In recent times, the evolution of the wheel is closely tied to motorsports, and what gives the driver the ability to maneuver most efficiently in both Formula One and GT racing. Marshall Pruett reported for Road & Track, “In abstract terms, there are few components on a racing car that have changed more and become almost unrecognizable since the sport was in its infancy more than a decade ago.”
The steering wheel is one of many beautiful bits on the DB11, a car that has grace and visceral power, as well as other remarkable details such as full LED headlamps. In contemporary cars, the wheel is what guides the driving experience. Of course the concept of a steering wheel in passenger cars, may one day be one of pure nostalgia as we move into the age of autonomous driving. Many of the self-driving car prototypes are cars with no steering wheels at all.

Star Wars: Battlefront got more than its fair share of hype when it launched two years ago. The prospect of a multiplayer game set in the world of the original Star Wars trilogy, from the developer behind the Battlefield series, seemed too good to be true. As it turned out, it kinda was.
While the early-release Battle of Hoth was exciting, over time the clunkiness of the flying missions, the simplistic weapons and skills options, and the total lack of a single-player campaign hampered the game’s staying power. Now it’s time for the sequel, and judging from the push here at E3, the sole purpose of Star Wars: Battlefront II is to address the many concerns of fans and gamers. (How much so? Andrew Wilson, CEO of EA, mentioned the “constructive” negative feedback the game had received during his opening remarks at the company’s big press event, EA Play.)
After spending some time with both the single-player campaign and the multiplayer mode in Battlefront II, I can confidently say that the game does indeed try to tackle the biggest problems that upset players the first time around. Judging whether or not it’s actually successful, however, is going to require a lot more than the fan-friendly glimpses we were shown today.
The most intriguing addition to Battlefront II is its new single-player campaign. As announced at Star Wars Celebration this year, the story tracks Iden Versio, an elite Imperial special forces officer that sets out to avenge the death of The Emperor. The story tracks the 30-year span between Return of the Jedi and J.J. Abrams’ The Force Awakens, providing developer Motive Studios plenty of room to explore. (The game was written in collaboration with Lucasfilm’s Story Group, and  be considered canon within the larger Star Wars universe.)
The brief 15-minute sequence I played began with a cut-scene, set not long after Iden witnesses the destruction of the second Death Star. She visits her father, a high-ranking Imperial officer, and immediately echoes Rogue One by telling him that it is “hope” that keeps any cause alive. A Messenger from The Emperor — a red-cloaked creature with a video screen for a face; he’s the one that shows up at the end of the latest trailer — relays the fallen ruler’s last order, and then it’s off to the gameplay. First I took over as Iden in a TIE Fighter, and then went on a sabotage mission inside a Rebel Blockade Runner.
The first thing I thought while in the midst of the space battle was, well, that the whole thing felt like Battlefront. Not in a negative way; the flying controls were tighter and certainly more nuanced, and the on-screen prompts that guided me from objective to objective during the massive battle were more well-laid out than what I’d grown used to in the first game. But the essential style of gameplay was still the same; it was basically just a tweaked version of the multiplayer game, with thin bookends of narrative.
Flying into the Rebel ship and taking out a fleet of X-Wings in the hangar bay — not to mention the scurrying Rebels themselves — was a different situation. I actually felt bad for a moment, mercilessly massacring a group of what have always been the “good guys.” It was just a twinge, but a moment I noticed nevertheless. Part of what’s interesting about the Iden story is that players  be taking on the role of the Empire, which could provide for some interesting emotional dynamics depending on how effective the storytelling itself actually is.
Once inside the Rebel ship, I ran around, killed lots of Rebels, and took out the ship’s three ion cannons. Iden has a cute flying droid that helps her from moment to moment, taking out Rebels and opening doors. It was all perfectly well-done, but there was no moment that stood out as particularly exciting or innovative. The end of the mission led right into another cut-scene, giving the impression that this mode  simply be a collection of streamlined, on-rails missions with cutscene connective tissue. Only time  tell.
Visually, the game is a pleasant jump up from the original Battlefront. The level of detail in the cut scenes were particularly noticeable. The texture of the uniform Iden’s father wears, the stitched shoulders of her own clothing; the details popped off the screen. The aesthetic enhancements extended to the gameplay as well. Noticeably improved was the animation used for the different Rebel soldiers. Whether they were dodging back and forth away from my laser bolts, or falling to the ground, there movements looked far more realistic and varied than anything in the first game — though again, it’s hard to get a sense of just how varied without really digging into the game.
With all of the focus that’s been put on Iden’s story, however, it was disappointing to see just how little about that aspect of the game was actually revealed. The mission I played was fun, but it didn’t leave me necessarily feeling emotionally invested in Iden, committed to taking her through 30 years of intergalactic mischief. It played like a one-off, siloed mission without any larger context: exactly what it was. Hopefully the shipping game  be far richer in that regard — there’s only so much you can get from a demo of a single mission — but after playing I was left with as many questions about the single-player campaign as I had beforehand. (Speaking of unanswered questions, representatives weren’t ing to discuss how long the single-player campaign actually  be — a thing to keep in mind for people considering pre-ordering the game sight unseen.)
The original Battlefront tried to be a multiplayer game for the masses, and in the process lacked the depth, customizability, and precision that seasoned gamers have come to expect. Various updates after the original release tried to address some of these problems, though all they really did was turn the game into a convoluted mess. Battlefront II seems to have been conceived from the ground up to be a title that multiplayer game lovers  actually enjoy playing, and it starts with the new class system: players can choose between four different types of player, including specialists (for those that love to snipe or set trip mines), infantry (for those that like the blaster and thermal detonator approach), or heavy infantry (for fans of much bigger guns). Over time, players  be able to customize their characters, though in the demo the loadout options were kept simply to class choices and two different weapon types.
For Star Wars fans, a big part of the appeal is going to be the ability to play multiplayer matches in any era of the Star Wars saga. As shown off in EA’s livestream, the multiplayer demo was the Assault on Theed, a conflict from Episode I: The Phantom Menace. The irony there is that in the lead-up to The Force Awakens, it seemed as if Disney was doing everything it could to pretend the prequel films never existed. Now that the franchise is rolling again, however, Battlefront II is hoping to entice players by letting them play as Battle Droids and Clone Troopers.
As with the single-player campaign, multiplayer in Battlefront II feels like a refined, optimized, and better-looking version of the first game. One dramatic change, however, is the way in which players can take on the roles of iconic Star Wars characters. In the original title, it simply required finding a token somewhere on the battlefield. In Battlefront II, players collect “battle points” as they go through a given match. Collect a certain number of points, and they can then deploy as a more powerful character — from a heavily armored droid, to someone like Rey or Boba Fett.
During the Theed demo, I played briefly as Han Solo. There’s a mix-and-match feel to Battlefront II’s multiplayer that I think is going to overjoy some fans, and infuriate others. On one hand, it was amazing to see Darth Maul slaughter a bevy of Clone Troopers in the match, even though Maul was never part of that particular conflict. (I only wish I’d had a chance to play as the character; his speed and efficiency in ruthless slaughter was impressive). It was equally fun to see Rey running around with her lightsaber — showing off the kind of skilled moves we’ll no doubt see her display in The Last Jedi. The problem with Rey showing up, however, is that it actually doesn’t make any sense to see her on Naboo, given that the battle took place some 60 years before she ever left Jakku.
I know what you’re saying, and you’re right. Realism has never really been the goal of Battlefront’s multiplayer mode — when the first game launched, Return of the Jedi Luke was the one that would spawn in the Hoth battle from The Empire Strikes Back. When you open that up to such a vast span of time, though, it’s going to be a tad jarring. But it  seems to be the logical choice, particularly with a single-player narrative in place to give players a sense of continuity.
DLC was a big part of the first game, adding locations like Cloud City and the Death Star (and allowing the game to eventually tie into Rogue One). We didn’t get a chance to experience any DLC at E3, but the company did break some news.
Surprising no one, the first installment of DLC for Battlefront II  be for The Last Jedi, and  bring both John Boyega’s Finn and Gwendoline Christie’s Captain Phasma to the game as playable characters, along with the planet of Crait. (That’s the new planet seen in the film’s first trailer.) But the DLC  be free — as  every subsequent chapter of DLC for Battlefront II.
Given that EA relied on the a la carte and season pass models for the last game, it’s a big departure. What wasn’t discussed during the presentation, however, was that Battlefront II  instead try to cash in through microtransactions. According to a report from The Wall Street Journal, players  be able to buy packages of cards that they can then use to upgrade their characters within the game.
But issues of monetization and long-term playability are different than the core question of whether the game is going to deliver on its many promises. From what I was able to play, there’s no doubt that Star Wars: Battlefront II is trying to address most of the issues from the original game. But in reality, all that was really shown was a little taste; a carefully curated glimpse designed to give players that very impression. It’s the nature of early previews like this to only give off a hint of a game’s potential, so that shouldn’t come as a particular shock — but it seems somewhat unique given the marketing message of Battlefront II.
Not that it  matter all that much anyway. It’s Star Wars. It  sell millions of copies just because of those clips of Darth Maul taking out Clone Troopers. And I’m not gonna lie: it did look pretty cool.
In recent years, free libraries have popped up across the country in an effort to bring access to books to local communities. Detroit is now home to a new free library in the form of a replica TARDIS from the BBC show Doctor Who.
The library is a life-sized replica of the time traveling Doctor’s famous time machine. Dan Zemke explained that he wanted to do something with the empty lot across the street from his home in Detroit, and decided to construct a free library that combined two of his passions: the BBC television show and reading.
Zemke told The Verge that a reading program called Reach-Out-and-Read at his workplace helped inspire the project. “That program ensures that every child that comes into the [Advantage Health Center] leaves with a book.” When he began thinking about building a TARDIS replica, he noted that he wanted it to be useful to the community. “It hit me to combine my work's reading program with the TARDIS project to make a creative outlet for books in the community.”
He pitched the idea to his father, who has a workshop with “any and every tool that you can imagine.” The two began work last Labor Day, and were aided by an online building community called Tardis Builders. “Whenever we got stuck on a particular part of the TARDIS,” he said, “we would look on the forums to see what other people did.” The final structure stands almost 10 feet tall, weighs almost a ton, and its front shelves holds around 140 books.
When visitors open the library’s front doors, they’re greeted with some panels with a painted mural that depicts the TARDIS’s interior layout under the Twelfth Doctor, Peter Capaldi. “We wanted to give people a sense that they were looking into the actual interior,” he explained. “You can slide the mural panels to reveal shelves on the other side and to take [or] leave a book.”
Part of that design is practical: given the size of the box, he didn’t want it to be misused, so he “came up with the idea for this false wall at the front to stop people from living in [it]. We  put more shelving in the back to hold more reserve books and to limit space.”
Once the replica was finished in early June, Zemke installed it in a lot owned by his brother on corner of Vermont Street and Warren West Avenue in Detroit. “I wanted to help make our neighborhood a bit cooler and make that spot somewhere that people would want to check out. Plus, who doesn't want a life-size TARDIS in their community?”
Since its installation, Zemke says that the library has received considerable attention from pedestrians and drivers, with families, teachers and other fans stopping by to check it out. “Foot traffic has been pretty huge for a lesser-known street off a major road in Detroit,” he explains. “It’s been a really positive experience so far.” The library is now open, and visitors are welcome to take a book, or leave behind one of their own.

We’re through the “first day” of E3, pre-show floor, where every major video game company shows off the next year or two of Things You’ll Play. EA is done, and today starts with Microsoft and ends with Bethesda.
Although the show floor doesn’t open until Tuesday, the press conferences — i.e. where the companies announce and release trailers for everything — begin this Saturday, and they’re all being streamed live so that you can enjoy from home. Here’s when / where you can watch the biggest events, and what you can expect from each.
Related
When: Saturday, June 10th at 12PM PT / 3PM ET
What: You want Star Wars? EA  have at least one, maybe two games to show off. You want sports? EA  have sports — including the first FIFA game for Switch (although it won’t necessarily be the same as everyone else’s FIFA). Do you want more Sims?? I mean, it’s EA — there’ll probably be Sims, too.
How to watch: Watch EA’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube.
When: Sunday, June 11th at 2PM PT / 5PM ET
What: Scorpio. Scorpio. Scorpio. Maybe Halo. Maybe not VR. Scorpio.
How to watch: Microsoft is providing a myriad ways to watch this year, including 4K options on YouTube and Mixer.  You can  watch on Twitch, Facebook, Twitter, your Xbox, and Fuse — yes, the TV channel.
When: Sunday, June 11th at 9PM PT / 12AM ET
What: Bethesda’s been teasing at least two new games in the form of a cartoon “Bethesdaland” map with two sections still “under construction.” Rumor has it we’ll finally be seeing Starfield, a sci-fi open-universe RPG, along with several sequels to the company’s big franchises. And if past years are any indication, there’ll be a surprise mobile game releasing shortly after the final musical act (yes, there’s a musical act).
How to watch: Watch Bethesda’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube.
#BE3 is less than a week away! Join us Sunday night at 9PM PT to see what's new from Bethesda! pic.twitter.com/7uvHMmB04Q
When: Monday, June 12th at 10AM PT / 1PM ET
What: Polygon has a good rundown of the show, which features a wide variety of developers big and small.
How to watch: Watch the showcase live on Twitch, Facebook or YouTube
When: Monday, June 12th at 1PM PT / 4PM ET
What: Far Cry 5 is already poised to be one of the more controversial games of the show, and the rumored Rabbids / Mario crossover  almost assuredly be the most disturbing. Ubisoft is  rumored to be showing off Assassin’s Creed: Origins — not as controversial — and confirmed to be talking about the delayed South Park sequel.
How to watch: Watch Ubisoft’s live stream on Twitch
When: Monday, June 12th at 6PM PT / 9PM ET
What: Last year, Sony showed off an impressive slate of games: Death Stranding, Spider-Man, Days Gone, The Last of Us Part 2 and a new God of War. None of which, by the way, have come out yet, so expect to see more of each this year along with more and more games. After all, it’s what Sony does best at E3.
How to watch: Watch Sony’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube
When: Tuesday, June 13th at 9AM PT / 12PM ET
What: As with Breath of the Wild last year, Nintendo’s floor space at E3  be almost exclusively focused on Mario Odyssey, and the company’s Nintendo Direct stream  probably spend a good chunk of time on the game, too, along with Splatoon 2 and maybe a new Fire Emblem. As for what beloved franchise Nintendo brings to the Switch next as a surprise announcement, while we’d love that to be Super Smash Bros., there’s no telling when Nintendo wants to bring to the Switch next until a Mii version of its executives announces it.
How to watch: Watch Nintendo Direct on Twitch or YouTube
Wilderness is nice, but hands down, the number one reason to go camping is to incinerate food over a fiery pit. Everything tastes better when it’s burned over flames, especially marshmallows. But before you dip your ‘mallow-tipped toasting fork in the campfire, here are a few things you should know:
Marshmallows are mainly sugar, but air actually makes up more than half their volume. They’re made by beating together gelatin or another gel-forming ingredient with a hot sugary syrup. Beating the mixture creates air bubbles, which become trapped as the liquid mixture cools into a gel — creating the spongy texture.
Those bubbles are why Peeps explode in the microwave, and flaming marshmallows swell on the end of a toasting fork. Hotter temperatures makes the air trapped inside the marshmallow expand and take up more space, forcing the flexible sugary mixture to stretch. Eventually, if the pressure is too much? Kaboom.
But take the marshmallow out of the heat, and it’ll deflate — although the stretched out gelatin doesn’t bounce back. “It shrinks to a shriveled mass,” Richard Hartel, a food scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, tells The Verge in an email. “Don't get me started on Peeps jousting.”
Well, maybe not burnt — but definitely toasted. Heating the marshmallow over the fire can make the sugar caramelize, a chemical reaction that produces the brown color and toasted flavor. It requires really high temperatures, so microwaving your marshmallow isn’t going to cut it.
“Many foods don't get hot enough when they cook for caramelization (like bread),” food chemistry professor Matt Hartings at American University tells The Verge in an email. “Marshmallows certainly do over a fire.”
When the sugar gets hot enough, it starts to break down into smaller molecules that then react with one another. These reactions produce new fruity, nutty, and buttery flavors you can taste and smell on your toasted marshmallow. They  turn the marshmallow skin that satisfying golden color.
Certain sugars may  react with amino acids in the gelatin in what’s known as the Maillard reaction. It occurs at much lower temperatures than caramelization and contributes to the rich brown color and complex flavors of a seared steak, roasted coffee, or caramel candies. For marshmallows that are very slowly roasted, Hartel suspects that the Maillard reaction might be what’s producing their golden hue and general deliciousness.
Marshmallows start to melt when they heat up to just above body temperature, Hartings says. But if you’re not careful, you can completely burn the outside before the inside even gets warm. The heat of the fire shakes loose the chemical bonds in the gelatin that hold the candy together, which makes the marshmallow ooze.
So, whether you prefer marshmallows golden brown or charbroiled, don’t catch them on fire immediately if you want to maximize the gooeyness. “You've gotta be patient and slow for a while (letting the meltiness reach all the way to the insides). Then,” Hartings says, “you can torch the sucker.”
Bethesda is one of the most popular gaming developers around, with some of the biggest franchises in the industry under its umbrella, including The Elder Scrolls, Fallout, Dishonored, Prey, the rebooted Doom, Quake, and Wolfenstein. And while E3 technically doesn’t officially kick off until Tuesday, Bethesda (like most of the major companies) is kicking off things early with a press conference.
While there hasn’t been a ton of leaks indicating what Bethesda  be announcing this year, the biggest rumor points to Bethesda finally announcing Starfield, a long-rumored sci-fi game that takes the company’s iconic RPG gameplay and shoots it into space. Follow-ups to Wolfenstein: The New Order and The Evil Within are  both long overdue and could make an appearance at the show. Furthermore, the company’s “Bethesdaworld” E3 invitation featured two areas marked as “Coming soon” and “Under construction,” implying that we’ll probably see at least some new IPs this year at E3.
Related
Chances are we’ll at  least see more of the upcoming free-to-play Quake team shooter, Quake Champions, which was announced back at E3 2016. Additionally, there’ll probably be more information on the Nintendo Switch port of The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim that Nintendo briefly showcased when it launched the Switch earlier this year.
And who knows? Maybe Bethesda  pull a real surprise and announce something crazy, like Fallout 5 or a sixth Elder Scrolls game.
Here’s how to keep up with all the fun as it happens:
Starting time: San Francisco: 9PM / New York: 12AM / London: 5AM (June 13th) / Moscow: 7AM (June 13th) / Beijing: 12PM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 1PM (June 13th) / Sydney: 2PM (June 13th)
Live streaming: Watch Bethesda’s live stream on the Bethesda Twitch channel. Alternatively, you can watch it on the company’s official YouTube channel.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for gaming stories and E3 news throughout the week.
After watching Alien: Covenant last week, I felt like I had to go back and revisit Prometheus. Not just because the backstory of Covenant is extremely confusing if you don't remember what happened (and I didn't), but because I remembered Prometheus taking a really different approach to its scares.
The difference between Prometheus and Covenant might be analogous to the difference between Alien and Aliens. It's the difference between films with big mysteries and long, drawn out tension, and films with huge action set pieces and sudden, visceral frights. My theory is that people  be drawn more toward one pair or the other, and I'm definitely a bigger fan of the former.
At the same time, I think it's really interesting how Ridley Scott is splitting the Alien series thematically between prequels and sequels. His two new films are about creation, while the originals focus more on corporate greed and militarism. It doesn't all add up perfectly for me, but I love that one long story is able to be pulled in two very different directions.
Check out 10 trailers from this week below.
On Friday, Marvel put out a very exciting first look at Black Panther. The teaser doubles as an intro to the series — setting up the nation of Wakanda and the many parties fighting for power — and as the kind of hype reel — full of amazing landscapes, cool poses, and very fun action — that continues to get audiences lining up for Marvel films. So far, this is looking like a very good one. It’s heading to theaters early next year, on February 16th.
Broad City has been off the air for more than a year, and while there are still two months to go before it returns, Comedy Central finally put out a look at its next season this week. And yeah, it looks like even more of what’s made Broad City into such a hit. Season four starts up on August 23rd.
Spike has a very creepy new trailer out for its adaptation of Stephen King's The Mist. It looks like another show about the apocalypse and people turning to and/or from religion in the face of the end times, but the series seems to be taking a distinctly scarier turn than most, which could help to set it apart. The show starts June 22nd.
Tom Cruise has re-teamed with Doug Liman, director of Edge of Tomorrow (and more notably, The Bourne Identity), for American Made, a raucous looking film based on the life of an actual drug smuggler / pilot / informant working for the US government and Pablo Escobar. This trailer makes it look like an eccentric, energetic ride, and I particularly like the sort of home video vibe it snaps into every now and then. It comes out September 29th.
Netflix has a pretty incredible looking documentary coming up that goes underwater to document the wonders of ocean life and the destruction being done to coral reefs across the globe. The film comes out July 14th.
Landline premiered at Sundance earlier this year to mixed but generally positive reviews. It's the second film from Gillian Robespierre, who directed Obvious Child and co-writes and directs here. It has a great cast, including Obvious Child star Jenny Slate, and it looks all at once funny, awkward, and kind of sweet. It comes out in limited release July 21st, expands August 4th, and  eventually hit Amazon.
Pixar put out another trailer for its colorful new film about a boy who gets trapped in the Land of the Dead. This trailer is shorter than the last, but it's a bit more explicit about what kind of movie we're in for. Then again, it's Pixar, so we kind of already know. Coco is directed by Lee Unkrich, of Toy Story 3, so there's some reason to keep expectations high. It comes out November 22nd.
Neill Blomkamp's Oats Studios put out a second trailer this week for its first collection of short sci-fi films. The format seems to have given Blomkamp space to play around with all kinds of strange aliens and ideas, and this second trailer really has me intrigued. (There's  a cameo from Sigourney Weaver.) No release date yet, but the studio still says it's all "streaming soon" on YouTube and Steam.
Killing Ground debuted to some good reviews at Sundance this year, and now the film is nearing in on a wide release. The movie has a pretty simple premise — it's about a couple whose camping retreat goes very, very wrong — but it looks seriously creepy in this trailer. It hits theaters and goes on demand July 21st.
Alejandro Jodorowsky's latest film is a surreal, autobiographical depiction of his early years as a poet in Chile. It looks bizarre and visually fascinating, and I can't help but be interested despite having very little idea what's going on here. Heads up: there's a minor amount of nudity and one giant, falling phallic light fixture, so take that into consideration before clicking play. The film comes out July 14th.

General Motors began selling its electric Chevy Bolt at the end of 2016 in California and Oregon, with a wider rollout planned for the spring of 2017. The company has confirmed that the vehicle  be available nationwide in August, according to Automotive News.
That’s slightly earlier than originally thought: GM planned to start selling the car nationwide in September. Chevrolet's marketing director for cars and crossovers, Steve Majoros, told reporters that dealers can now begin placing orders for the car, which  arrive by August.
Chevy delivered its first Bolt in December, and has gradually expanded sales to over a half-dozen additional states this spring. Majoros explained that the slower rollout has been to help control demand for the vehicle: “We think we're at the right level of sufficient inventory. We can keep feeding where there's a stronghold of sales."
The $30,000 (after a federal tax credit) car has an EPA-estimated range of 238 miles with a full charge, and is significantly cheaper than comparable electric vehicles. By moving its national sales up, Chevy  get even more of a head start on rival EV maker Tesla, which  release its Model 3 sometime in 2018.
Related
At E3 2017, Microsoft’s splashy, neon-soaked press conference  have a meaningful impact on the console industry. The company is expected to unveil the final consumer version of its Project Scorpio device, a new and improved Xbox One that should be capable of native 4K gaming and virtual reality support. How it compares to Sony’s existing PlayStation 4 Pro, and what it means for console gaming in the graphics and performance department,  a big point of discussion at E3 this year.
Microsoft’s press conference this year is a day earlier than usual: 5PM ET / 2PM PT on Sunday, June 11th. It’s  going to be a long one.
Xbox briefing Sunday  likely run longer than our traditional 90 mins. For those recording just a heads up. #XboxE3
While Microsoft has already confirmed that it won’t be talking about VR or its Windows 10 mixed reality headset platform at E3, we  absolutely get details on Scorpio — including possibly its name, pricing, and a release date. The company has even started teasing some key details, including a potential name (Xbox 10S) and release date (October 13th) hidden in YouTube videos released earlier this week.  on the schedule  be news about upcoming exclusives and the usual updates on long-running franchises and well-known sequels, including a possible glimpse at Halo 6.
Starting time: San Francisco: 2PM / New York: 5PM / London: 10PM / Moscow: 12AM (June 12th) / Beijing: 5AM (June 12th) / Tokyo: 6AM (June 12th) / Sydney: 7AM (June 12th)
Live streaming: Watch Microsoft's live stream on the Xbox Twitch channel. Alternatively, you can watch it on the company’s official Xbox YouTube channel or on its own streaming service, Mixer.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for Microsoft stories and E3 news throughout the week.
Father’s Day is quickly approaching — June 18th, to be exact — so this weekend is a great time to buy something nice for your dad if you haven’t already. We’ve gone through a large number of deals to select the seven best ones for you or your father, including two exclusive to The Verge for a limited time.
Announced this morning, Amazon devices got new discounts for Father’s Day that you’ll definitely want to check out. , Microsoft announced yesterday that it is knocking $50 off select bundles ahead of its Scorpio release at E3.
Let’s not waste anymore time and get straight to the deals:
Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s roundup here.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
This post has been updated on June 11th to include the Amazon devices and Microsoft Xbox One S deals.

Electronic Arts kicked off E3 2017 with a brand new Madden NFL story mode starring Mahershala Ali and ended with a very, very long look at Star Wars Battlefront II's multiplayer. In between was A Way Out, a split-screen prison break game from the creators of Brothers, a very fast and furious new Need for Speed, and a tease of Bioware’s new sci-fi franchise, Anthem, which we should learn more about tomorrow.
There were, alas, no Sims this year.




Electronic Arts’ E3 press conference today was light on announcements, but delivered a large chunk of multiplayer gameplay from its upcoming Star Wars title, Battlefront II. It  introduce a single-player storyline where its predecessor did not, but expect the game’s multiplayer to expand as well.
The time around, players  be able to select characters spanning the entire franchise, from Episode I: The Phantom Menace to Episode VII: The Force Awakens. In the gameplay segment shown on-stage, EA demonstrated the destructive power of Darth Maul, clones, droids, and a handful of quirky vehicles.
Star Wars Battlefront II launches November 17th.
The first of many E3 2017 press conferences has drawn to a tepid conclusion. Electronic Arts kicked off the year’s biggest week in gaming news with a handful of announcements on new games, as well as footage from the highly anticipated Star Wars: Battlefront II. Though it ended with a strange, lengthy multiplayer match and an ad for a mobile game.
The conference was light on announcements, but tried its best to make gameplay center stage. These are the five moments it really succeeded.
EA  release a new game from Hazelight — the studio founded by Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons creator Josef Fares — called A Way Out. It’s a co-op prison break game that you can only play in cooperative split-screen.
BioWare Edmonton has been working on a new, secret project thought to rival the likes of Activision’s Destiny. Today, we got our first look at it — and learned that it  be called Anthem.
EA had nothing to say about its long-rumored Star Wars open-world game, but the developer did have quite a lot to show from Star Wars: Battlefront II. The sequel to the 2015 action title  include characters reaching back to Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. Players who’d rather skip the Darth Maul party can  play as characters from the ongoing trilogy, including Rey.
Madden NFL 18  include a story mode called Longshot. It focuses on Devin Wade, a young man hoping to play in the NFL. Notably, Devin’s dad, Cutter, is played by Moonlight Oscar winner Mahershala Ali.
Prepare yourself for explosions, family, and stilted dialogue. Need for Speed has been edging closer and closer to the Fast and Furious franchise over the years. But this is the first game to flagrantly try to capture the vibe of the blockbusters series. See for yourself with the trailer.

One of the most anticipated elements of Star Wars: Battlefront II is its single-player storyline, but judging from the latest trailer it may be the multiplayer mode that gets hardcore fans most excited. First shown here at E3 in Los Angeles, the new trailer demonstrates just how expansive it  be, pulling in characters, locations, and vehicles that cover the entire 40-year history of the saga. It even has those Phantom Menace battle droids. (Look, nothing’s perfect.)
The original Star Wars: Battlefront kept things limited to the original trilogy of movies, though a battle from Rogue One did eventually make an appearance in the final installation of the game’s DLC expansion. It provided for a level of familiarity and authenticity, particularly important given that Disney and Lucasfilm were trying to revive a fanbase that was still recovering from the much-maligned prequels. For the second iteration of Battlefront, however, that restriction in eras has been lifted, with everyone from Darth Maul to Rey and Kylo Ren appearing as playable characters.
We’re still early in the hype cycle for the game, but in many ways Battlefront II appears to be the game that Battlefront should have been all along — if it hadn’t been fast-tracked to beat J.J. Abrams’ Star Wars: The Force Awakens to release. In fact, much of what’s been revealed about the game thus far may as well be a fan wish list: along with the multi-player battles spanning the entire saga, the new game   feature improved vehicle handling and space missions, courtesy of Criterion Games, as well as that expansive single-player campaign, which  put players in the shoes of an elite Imperial officer as she tries to avenge the death of The Emperor and Darth Vader. We’ll find out if the game actually delivers on November 17th.
EA and the creator behind Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons, Josef Fares,  release a new game called A Way Out that can only be played in split-screen. Fares, the game’s writer and director, announced the game on-stage today at EA’s E3 press conference.
A Way Out is a story-driven, co-op prison break game that  feature exploration, driving, action, and more, Fares said on stage. “I wanted to make another game that pushed the boundaries on how to tell stories without compromising on gameplay.” Players  either control Vincent or Leo. Both characters have stories that  play out simultaneously on-screen; even if one character is in a cut-scene, players can still control the other.
Although Fares said the game would allow people to play online with their friends, the idea is for people to play together on their couches.
A Way Out  launch in early 2018. The game is being developed by Hazelight, Fares’ new studio.



Years ago, Casey Hudson, the executive producer on the original Mass Effect trilogy, founded a new team at BioWare Edmonton to begin work on an entirely new franchise. According to a recent report at Kotaku, the project was codenamed Dylan “because Hudson and team wanted to make the Bob Dylan of video games—one that would be referenced for years to come.”
Now we know the game’s official title: Anthem.
The game is rumored to be EA’s response to social-action game franchises like Activision’s Destiny. In an earnings call in May, EA CEO Andrew Wilson said of the game: "We are very pleased with the progress of our new action IP from BioWare. The design is stunning. Gameplay mechanics are excellent. And the action  be exhilarating. The game is built around a live service, and through our creative process, we've decided to add more to the disruptive new social designs for our players. To accommodate that, we are moving the launch date for this project into fiscal year '19."
A full length trailer  be shown tomorrow at Microsoft’s E3 event.
Last year, the Need for Speed series took some time off to discover itself. Apparently it spent most of the break binging the Fast and Furious films on loop. The similarities to the blockbuster franchise were evident in the first teaser, but the extended gameplay demo is somehow less subtle.
I’m not complaining. Despite its early fascination with full-motion video, the Need for Speed series has struggle to stick a decent story. Fast and the Furious built a name for itself on lovable melodrama, though it’s recently wobbled, overemphasizing CGI-soaked action set pieces. Hopefully Payback can land somewhere in the middle.
Need for Speed Payback is scheduled for release on November 10th on PS4, Xbox One, and PC.
Microsoft is cutting its Xbox One S price by $50 tomorrow, just as the company unveils the final name and price for its next Project Scorpio console. The software giant announced the price drop on Twitter today, simply revealing that Xbox One S consoles and bundles  drop by $50 tomorrow. It’s not clear if this is a permanent price drop, as Microsoft has run a number of deals on the Xbox One S recently.
While Microsoft's tweet is confusing and appears to indicate a $50 off the base model that's priced at $249, the software giant has clarified to The Verge that the price cut is only on certain bundles. The Xbox One S Battlefield 1 500GB bundle and the Xbox One S 1TB Forza Horizon 3 bundle  both be discounted by $50. Effectively, this means 500GB bundles are $249, and 1TB bundles are $299.
Microsoft dropped the price of its original Xbox One console last year to $299 ahead of the launch of the Xbox One S at E3, and then dropped it further to $279 just after announcing the Xbox One S. The new price drop for the Xbox One S could hint at a more aggressive pricing structure for Microsoft’s Xbox consoles. Many are expecting Microsoft to unveil its Project Scorpio console pricing tomorrow at the company’s E3 press conference, and Xbox fans are hoping to see $399 or $449 pricing on the new hardware. Microsoft is planning to unveil Project Scorpio at 2PM PT / 5PM ET tomorrow during its E3 press conference.
Update, June 11th 3:30AM ET: Microsoft has clarified its confusing tweet and revealed only certain bundles are getting a price cut.
A new version of Star Wars Battlefront II is the big thing that we can expect from Electronic Arts this year, but there are other projects on the way as well: a new FIFA game for the Switch, a Madden story mode, and a new Need for Speed. Here are the biggest trailers, gameplay videos, and announcements from the EA’s E3 2017 event.

The perfect email app is a bit of a unicorn. Countless companies and startups have tried, and many have failed, to perfect the inbox experience and make peace with email and its soul-crushing inevitability in our modern digital lives. The goal is to make email feel manageable or, at the very least, to give you a pretty piece of mobile or desktop software you enjoy using. We may never achieve a sense of perfection when it comes to email, but many services come close.
On desktop, there’s lots of great options, from the esteemed Airmail on Mac, which costs $9.99, to the Google Inbox-like Spark. For the longest time, I had settled for the free app WMail, which takes the standard web Gmail experience and wrapped it up as a pleasant-looking piece of standalone Mac software.
Similar to how Slack, Spotify, and many other companies develop desktop apps, WMail is built using GitHub’s Electron framework and powered using Chromium, the open source foundation behind Google Chrome. Effectively, these tools allow developers to take web apps and transform them into standalone desktop ones that function in identical ways, but with a few added bits of visual flair and functionality.
In March, the team behind WMail rebranded its app as Wavebox, a new fully-featured email and productivity app that goes well beyond the original idea of an email client. In fact, after using Wavebox for no more than 10 minutes after I first downloaded it earlier this week, I was confident in saying its the most powerful email app for Mac I’ve ever used. It’s available now for free (there are Windows and Linux versions as well), but the company behind it sells a $19.95 annual pro subscription for access to things like unlimited accounts and third-party app integrations.
Wavebox functions very much like its WMail predecessor — it too is built on Chromium and Electron. It lets you add a Gmail account, and then replicates all the very same settings you have on the web versions, including keyboard shortcuts, labels, and so on. It even lets you designate an account as an Inbox one, so you can use Google’s sleek design on, say, your personal email account while keeping the standard web Gmail look for your work one.
Where Wavebox goes above and beyond, however, is its integrations. Where WMail supported only Gmail accounts, Wavebox supports all Google Apps services, productivity service Trello, team comms app Slack, Microsoft Outlook accounts, and Office 365 apps. It even has an option to load any website whatsoever as its own tab within the app. After some minor customization, I set up Wavebox with my work email, calendar, and Google Drive; my personal email, calendar, and Google Photos; my company Trello account; my company Slack channel; and a dedicated tab for The Verge’s homepage. I can even edit Google Doc files right within the app window.
I  concede that Wavebox feels almost tailor-made for my personal work and life setup. We here at The Verge use Trello for tracking projects, communicate over Slack, and use Google Cloud / G Suite for all of our email and web app needs. Though there is support for Windows apps now, I can see why some people’s workflows might not mesh well with what Wavebox has to offer.
And to be fair, this isn’t a minimalist and uncluttered email app — far from it. If you want something a bit more minimal, Airmail is probably your best bet, but I’d  highly recommend the web app Mailplane, especially if you want the same web Gmail experience replicated as a lightweight Mac app.
But if you’re looking for a robust, multi-purpose email app that can handle a dizzying number of different services, there’s nothing better out there than Wavebox.
Adam West, who portrayed Batman in the 1966 television show and movie has died after a short battle with leukemia, according to Variety. He was 88 years old.
iam West Anderson was born in Washington in 1928, and was drafted into the US Army, where he worked for the American Forces Network. After being discharged, he settled in Hawaii, where he landed his first television roles, and later moved to Hollywood, California. There, he played in shows such as Sugarfoot, Lawman, Overland Trail, and others. He was particularly known as the spokesperson for Nestle’s Quik, playing a James Bond-style character called Captain Quik, which helped him land the role for which he would be best known.
West’s portrayal of Bruce Wayne’s Batman in the campy, 1966 television show and film helped establish his career as an actor. In his book, The Caped Crusade: Batman and the Rise of Nerd Culture, Glen Weldon notes that it was his voice that set West apart while auditioning for the role:
“As he delivers each line, his voice slithers through different registers and volumes. He inserts pauses that are not merely pregnant but two weeks overdue. Those pauses were of course a deliberate choice — he wanted the viewer to see Batman’s intellectual processes, the way he thought through a puzzle and excitedly seized upon the answer.”
The show lasted for 120 episodes, and alongside Burt Ward (as Robin), Frank Gorshin (Riddler), Burgess Meredith (The Penguin), Cesar Romero (The Joker), and Lee Meriwether and Julie Newmar (both played Catwoman), he portrayed a light, humorous take on the Dark Knight at a time when comic books were written as humorous distractions, rather than the grim, realistic stories that they would later become in the 1980s.
Following his time on Batman, West found himself typecast, but appeared in a number of films and television shows, such as Bonanza, Fantasy Island, and The Last Precinct. He  reprised his role as Batman in several animated shows, such as The New Adventures of Batman, and Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show.
In recent decades, West established a resurgence, aided by appearances as himself in Fox’s animated comedy, Family Guy, and voiced characters in a variety of shows, such as The Simpsons, Futurama, and even Batman: The Animated Series.
Despite its campy nature, Batman became a classic show, full of over the top acting, fantastic bat gadgets, and West’s performances. In a later biography, Back to the Batcave, West noted that he was “angry and disappointed,” at not being able to reprise his role as Batman in Tim Burton’s take on the character, and wasn’t happy with the darker turn the character has taken in recent years.
Yet, while hardcore comic fans scorned the show for its lighter tone, Batman helped define the character for the character for a generation of viewers. Weldon notes that Batman was the “first, dazzling weekday-afternoon introduction to the concept of superheroes in general and Batman in particular,” thanks in part to West’s portrayal.
His Batman co-star, Burt Ward, said in a statement that he is “devastated at the loss of one of my very dearest friends. Adam and I had a special friendship for more than 50 years. We shared some of the most fun times of our lives together; our families have deep love and respect for each other. This is a terribly unexpected loss of my lifelong friend, I  forever miss him.”
In a statement, his family said that West “always saw himself as The Bright Knight and aspired to make a positive impact on his fans' lives. He was and always  be our hero.”
Updated to add statement form Burt Ward.
Cholera is a dangerous and very infectious disease that can be spread through water, feces and, apparently, soft-shelled turtles. In a study published this week in the journal American Society for Microbiology, researchers dipped these turtles in glowing cholera bacteria to figure out if they spread the disease.
Unfortunately, they do — which is bad news in China, where they’re considered a delicacy.
First, the researchers injected the cholera bacteria, Vibrio cholerae, with genes that made it glow. Next, they dipped the soft-shelled turtles in a solution that contained the glowing cholera.
The scientists then checked on the turtles every day for the next four days. By day one, they were already seeing light signals. By day four, the upper shell was glowing. The cholera bacteria definitely had no problem spreading on these animals.
But the scientists  wanted to know if the bacteria got inside the turtles since, after all, few people eat the turtle shell. So they made the turtles take the same glowing cholera bacteria, and euthanized them about three days later. After dissecting the animals, they found that their intestines (though, thankfully, nowhere else) had the glowing cholera bacteria in it.
Thankfully, there haven’t been too many cases of cholera in China — about 200 in the past ten years. But the strain of the disease spread by turtles is seen as an emerging problem, and cholera is still an issue worldwide, with the World Health Organization reporting 190,549 cases in 2014. Turtles aside, this method of using glowing bacteria could be used to study whether other animals, too, spread the disease, and just where in their bodies the cholera colonizes.

Syfy released its trailer for the new season of Dark Matter last month, and now, it has released a trailer for the third season of its other pulpy space opera show, Killjoys.
The show follows RAC (Reclamation Apprehension Coalition) agents Dutch, John, and D'avin as they track down warrants in a region of space known as The Quad. While they spend some of their time hunting their various targets, they  contend with a shadowy organization and its nefarious plans.
This new trailer shows off plenty of bounty hunter action, cyborgs, green goo, and quippy one-liners. There’s  some intriguing hints at this season’s big plot, whihc seem to include a clone of Dutch, and something about saving the world.
Like Dark Matter and The Expanse, Killjoys helped to fill a years-long void when it came to science fiction shows about space on the channel, and it’s a throwback to the types of lighter shows like Stargate SG-1, Farscape, or Andromeda. Killjoys returns to Syfy on June 30th.
Related
EA is scheduled to formally show off a new look at Star Wars: Battlefront II later today, but we now have a close look at what the gameplay  look like, thanks to a leaked gameplay video that surfaced earlier this morning.
The 12-minute video shows off Darth Maul, Rey, and Boba Fett in action in the Naboo palace and its surrounding streets from The Phantom Menace, running through hallways as they destroy droids and clone troopers.
The footage is fast-paced, and really incredible to watch. There’s a real thrill following Darth Maul with his double-bladed lightsaber as he cuts down everyone he comes across. It  looks like you can populate a small group of helper NPCs to follow you around.
The start of the video features the EA logo, and as Polygon notes, it’s not clear exactly where the footage comes from, although the user responsible for the footage says that it’s “Absolutely not stolen.” There’s  a tag in the corner that notes that it’s a pre-alpha build.
Update: the video has been removed, but we’ll undoubtably get a better look later today.

The Mummy hits theaters this weekend, and it’s clear that it’s more than just a movie: it’s Universal Studios’ attempt to jumpstart a Marvel-style cinematic franchise that  bring together its various classic monster properties under the Dark Universe banner. It’s an ambitious goal, but there are already signs that it’s coming out of the gate on shaky feet. On the off chance that this effort flops, Universal has plenty of options to try again.
The cinematic-universe framework sounds really good on paper. Done right, it theoretically creates a massive, interconnected, immersive universe that in turn creates a built-in fanbase and revenue. Marvel and DC have scored financial successes with their respective comic-book universes, Lucasfilm’s Star Wars franchise is chugging along at full speed, and Warner Bros. and Legendary Pictures are embarking on their own Monsterverse project with its Godzilla and King Kong films. But in practice, it’s an increasingly difficult sell as audiences get fatigued and as lackluster individual entries threaten to upset a studio’s plotted out roadmap. The Mummy is actually Universal’s second attempt to get this particular world up and running: 2014’s Dracula Untold was originally intended to launch the Dark Universe, but those particular plans were shelved when the movie flopped.
Related
It’s clear that Universal is dumping considerable resources into this new universe, bringing in hefty budgets and big names like Tom Cruise, Johnny Depp, Javier Bardem, Russell Crowe, and Sofia Boutella. That said, The Mummy is projected to only take in around $35-40 million in its debut weekend, earning less than Wonder Woman  in its second week of release. That could prompt Universal to scale back its ambitious plans.
But that doesn’t mean the studio should quit trying to put together an immersive story playing out over several huge films. Universal has other stories in its back catalog that it could conceivably merge into a coherent shared universe. Films like Serenity or Warcraft have plenty of room for more stories within their established worlds. There are even some existing franchises that could tolerate more development, like Vin Diesel’s Chronicles of Riddick space-horror franchise, which never lived up to its full potential. Universal was  already working on a companion TV show for the franchise.
The most likely candidate for the franchise treatment is Universal and Legendary Entertainment’s joint, upcoming adaptation of Dune, set to be directed by Denis Villeneuve (Arrival, Sicario, Blade Runner 2049). As we noted back in February, Dune is a solid opportunity for a huge space-opera universe, because a ton of ancillary works have been published, spanning centuries around Frank Herbert’s original 1965 novel. Universal has plenty of options to work with. Back in September, Herbert’s son Brian, who continued to expand the series along with Kevin J. Anderson, said there has been considerable interest in expanding the series in films, television shows, and games.
Browsing through a list of Universal’s catalog of films, there are other options that could certainly be fun to see. Three ideas leap out:
War films are a staple of cinematic history, and in the years following World War II, movies set during the action became big business. While most cinematic universes use invented worlds, there’s nothing to stop Universal from using fictional takes on real event to build a shared continuity. Universal has plenty of rebootable WWII films in its catalog, like Red Ball Express or Target Unknown. And there’s no shortage of historical events that could inspire their own films. It would be relatively easy to construct such a shared universe: characters from one story could cross into another, giving the sense of a real, organic space with immense events taking place.
Universal could always go back to the pulp era of author Robert E. Howard with a shared universe that revives sword-and-sandals action. The studio released a well-loved pair of Conan the Barbarian films in the 1980s, as well as a less-beloved one in 2011. Universal could wipe the slate clean and include other heroes, like Kull the Conqueror (last seen in the 1997 Kevin Sorbo film). For kicks, it could snap up the rights to C.L. Moore’s Jirel of Joiry stories, featuring a tough female warrior who fights supernatural beings. Wonder Woman shows that studios have good reasons to pursue more female-driven action films.
Want to stick with space? Put together a rebooted universe that brings together Buck Rogers and Flash Gordon, two iconic science-fiction heroes who helped inspire a ton of other works. Plus, the characters have met up at least once:
And if the studio wanted to add in another likeminded property, Disney would probably be happy to let Universal take John Carter of Mars off its hands.
At the end of the day, the cinematic-universe model is probably going to be around for years to come, whether or not The Mummy succeeds in launching the Dark Universe this weekend. It’s no secret that sequels and reboots are big business, and while the above suggestions are a bit tongue-in-cheek, many of these big studios have huge back catalogs that they can easily mine for years to come — provided audiences continue to tolerate that. When everything about a cinematic universe works, the result is a spectacular, long-form story that does things a single film can’t do. Franchises with their own continuity can create enormously immersive worlds with a huge cast of characters, and give audiences material to enjoy for years. But everything has to work together: the stories have to be entertaining for audiences, the acting has to be good, and the studios have to put the work in beforehand to make sure every entry works together. If any one of those elements fall short, the entire house of cards comes crashing down on itself. But I remain an eternal optimist, and I’ll keep watching, hoping I’ll find another world to delve into.


The first teaser trailer for Black Panther is finally here, and it looks incredible. If there was ever any doubt about how Black Panther, one of Marvel’s more enigmatic and under-appreciated superheroes, would fare on the big screen, this two-minute spot should put those fears to rest. There’s political intrigue, a sci-fi utopia, and plenty of action to look forward to, with a largely black cast put right on center stage.
But more than being just generally entertaining, this trailer is dense. Director Ryan Coogler has clearly done his homework on Black Panther lore, pulling in threads and ideas from some of the character’s best stories over his 50 year history. Let’s break some of them down.
Potential spoilers ahead.
Right off the bat, it should strike you that a movie trailer about the first black superhero in mainstream comics opens on a meeting between two white characters. That’s almost certainly by design. We’ve met both of these characters before and they provide a window into a world that has been a complete mystery to us and the Marvel Cinematic Universe up until now.
Let’s start with Everett K. Ross, played by Martin Freeman. He was first introduced in a minor role in last year’s Captain America: Civil War, but he’ll play a major part in this film as T’Challa’s (Chadwick Boseman) key American ally. His role pulls directly from Christopher Priest’s classic 1998 Black Panther run, where Ross is a hapless government agent assigned to keep an eye on T’Challa during a diplomatic crisis. Just like in the comics, he initially knows little about Wakanda. But is he ever going to learn.
Across from him is the one-armed Ulysses Klaw (Andy Serkis), a traditional Black Panther villain who was first introduced onscreen back in Avengers: Age of Ultron. He’s a gangster and smuggler who’s been trying to steal Vibranium — the metal Black Panther’s suit is made of — from Wakanda, the hyper-advanced African nation where T’Challa is set to rule as king. He’s likely a pivotal figure in the unrest T’Challa  have to face as ruler.
The crux of the film looks like it’ll have to do with T’Challa returning to Wakanda to claim the throne. His father, King T’Chaka, was killed in Civil War, so it’s now up to T’Challa to rule and deal with the drama that comes with his new duties.
It’s from his point of view that we really see Wakanda for the first time. The first place we see is Warrior Falls, where his coronation  take place.
This gives us a peek at how Coogler has envisioned Wakanda for the film: a techno-utopia that features both futuristic airships and traditional culture. It’s beautiful to behold, but  hints at how complicated life in the country is. T’Challa  have to balance his responsibilities as a monarch with his life as a superhero, and that’s going to be a difficult task. King T’Chaka (John Kani) even returns to do voiceover in the second half of the trailer, intoning, “You are a good man with a good heart. And it’s hard for a good man to be king.”
A major challenge for T’Challa  be the factions vying for supremacy in Wakanda, a theme writer Ta-Nehisi Coates touched on in his recent run in the comics. Wakanda has numerous tribes across its numerous regions with varying levels of influence, even though the Black Panther is the leader of the entire country. One powerful figure among those tribes is Man-Ape (Winston Duke), another Panther villain who appears late in the trailer.
However, the core villain looks like it might be N’Jadaka, otherwise known as Erik Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan). Killmonger, who first appeared way back in Don McGregor’s epic 1970s Jungle Action comic run, is a Wakandan exile who holds a powerful grudge against T’Challa’s father. He’s the mental and physical equal of the Black Panther in the comics, and once even managed to best T’Challa in combat at Warrior Falls.
Some of Wakanda’s most powerful figures, both in the comics and in this trailer, are women. The most visible ones are the Dora Milaje, Black Panther’s royal guard and traditionally his wive-in-training. They all kick ass. There’s Ayo, played by Florence Kasumba and first seen in Civil War. (You might  recognize her from Wonder Woman, where she played the Amazon Senator Acantha.) She doesn’t play around. In the comics, she even helped lead a revolution against Black Panther himself.
There’s Okoye, played by The Walking Dead’s Danai Gurira, the leader of the Dora Milaje. And there’s Nakia, played by Lupita Nyong’o. Nakia fell deeply in love with T’Challa in the comics, and her obsession with him eventually made her an enemy. We’ll see where Coogler takes their story in the film.
Even beyond the Dora Milaje, the royal family is sure to be formidable. Angela Bassett plays Queen Mother Ramonda, and even though we see her briefly, she’s sure to play an important supporting role to T’Challa. And then there’s Princess Shuri (Letitia Wright). First introduced in Reginald Hudlin’s Black Panther run in 2005, she’s T’Challa’s kid sister. She eventually goes on to become a Black Panther and Queen of Wakanda, but that’s probably a ways off.
One more thing. That purple blast before we see Black Panther flip off a destroyed car almost certainly comes from his suit, meaning we’ll get the chance to see what he can really do. The vibranium armor T’Challa wears is arguably as advanced as Tony Stark’s Iron Man armor, only with the emphasis put on stealth and agility instead of flight. With it, he can fire powerful energy blasts, scale buildings, and take gunfire without so much as blinking an eye.
There’s so much more that we still don’t know about what’s to come for this movie. (Which is good! Trailers really shouldn’t give everything away!) But there’s plenty to be excited about, particularly for new and long-time Black Panther fans.
Black Panther hits theaters on February 16th.
Wonder Woman begins on the paradisiacal island home of the Amazons, a mythical tribe of warrior women sent to Earth to protect humans from their basest impulses. When World War I spills onto the island’s shores, the film’s titular heroine, Diana (Gal Gadot), leaves its relative safety to help American spy Steve Trevor (Chris Pine) deliver a German laboratory notebook to British intelligence. That notebook, stolen from a German chemist nicknamed Dr. Poison, contains the Germans’ newest superweapon: “It’s a formula for a new kind of gas, mustard gas,” Diana explains, translating the notebook for Britain’s military leaders. “Hydrogen-based instead of sulfur.”
“Gas masks would be useless against hydrogen!” gasps one of those leaders. Even in a film that includes a magical island created by Zeus himself, these details about the gas are so strangely specific that they deserve a little fact-checking. Chemically speaking, does this formula make any sense?
Not really. First off, mustard gas is such a horrible, terrifying weapon, it doesn’t need to be made more potent. But if you were a chemist bent on raining destruction on the Allied forces, you wouldn’t do it by replacing the sulfur atom in mustard gas with a hydrogen atom. You’d know that sulfur is the linchpin holding together this poisonous molecule.
“It’s got a bat-like structure,” explains Raychelle Burks, a chemistry professor at St. Edward’s University in Texas. “Sulfur’s smack in the middle, and then you’ve got two bat wings that come out — and they’re kind of crinkly cut.” Both of those bat wings are made up of two carbon atoms and capped with a chlorine. The four carbon atoms each sprout two little tufts of hydrogen fuzz, for a total of eight hydrogen atoms.
So, mustard gas —  known as sulfur mustard — has plenty of hydrogen already. And an additional hydrogen couldn’t replace sulfur, because hydrogen only likes to bond to one other atom at a time. Unlike sulfur, hydrogen doesn’t have enough spare hands to hold on to both bat wings.
Still, Burks says, the film does get the prominent role of chemistry in WWI right. “Although there is a villain in a human form, the race against time is a chemistry one,” she says. “In that way, they did capture World War I as being a chemist’s war.”
The real-life Dr. Poison was a German chemist named Fritz Haber. He won the Nobel Prize for the breakthrough that made the large-scale production of fertilizer possible. He  spearheaded Germany’s chemical weapons program, and presided over the first successful use of a chemical weapon during World War I: not mustard gas, but chlorine. With the help of the wind, the Germans wafted chlorine gas across the Allies’ trenches on a spring day in 1915 and killed more than 1,100 soldiers, writes Sarah Everts in Chemical & Engineering News.
This experiment in chemical warfare sparked an arms race that earned World War I the moniker “The Chemist’s War,” despite an international ban on chemical weapons. Everts quotes German officer Rudolf Binding, who wrote: “I am not pleased with the idea of poisoning men. Of course, the entire world  rage about it at first and then imitate us.”
Binding was right. A twisted call-and-response ensued — where each new chemical agent was met with a more sophisticated countermeasure. (Among the earliest defenses against chlorine gas were urine-soaked handkerchiefs; the ammonia in urine could render the chlorine relatively harmless.)
But when the Germans first weaponized mustard gas in 1917, it presented a new challenge. Contrary to its name, mustard gas does not actually have any mustard in it. (It’s named for its mustard-like odor.) Nor is it a gas. “Soon known as the ‘king of the battle gases,’ mustard gas is actually an oily liquid that can pass through leather, rubber, and most textiles,” Everts writes.
Artillery shells filled with mustard gas rained tiny droplets onto the battlefield that didn’t need to be inhaled to inflict mass casualties. They soaked into the soldiers’ uniforms and covered their skin, causing a delayed reaction. Hours after exposure, soldiers would start to vomit, and their skin would burn. Huge blisters would form, and, if they inhaled the mustard gas, the lining of their lungs sloughed off. Many went at least temporarily blind. Both recovery and death were slow and agonizing. And the oil persisted on soldiers’ bodies and in the environment, where mortars could kick up residual mustard gas that had settled onto the soil months before.
Wonder Woman doesn’t show the gruesome effects of the “hydrogen-based” mustard gas on people. Instead, we see it shriveling a gas mask (which isn’t how mustard gas works), cracking glass (it can’t), and exploding in an airplane, which goes up like a chemical-tainted Hindenburg. It seemed like the filmmakers wanted to make the gas more flammable, Burks speculates, and people might equate hydrogen with flames. “Like ‘Can we have a chimera?’ And the answer is ‘No. You cannot.’”
Still, the film captures the aftermath and horror of chemical weapons in a scene where the Germans bomb a village with artillery shells containing the fictionally souped-up mustard gas. An orange mist floats low over the ground as Diana walks through to find scattered bodies. The thing that caused that devastation? A tiny molecule you can’t fight with your fists, or with weapons. Once that creeping mist catches you, it’s too late. “Bigger is not scarier,” Burks says. “You don’t need to be the big, scary monster. No, this is scarier than that. And it’s a teeny, teeny molecule.”
Wonder Woman is a superhero movie, so it doesn’t give anything away to say that Diana beats the bad guy in the end. But knowing that chemical weapons continue to be used even today touches that victory with a sense of futility, which the filmmakers seem to have intended. After all, humans  continue to dream up new, horrific ways of hurting one another. But Wonder Woman gives us a chance to escape to an imaginary world — where there’s someone or something out there, trying to stop us.
Update June 10th 9:10AM ET: This article was originally published on June 6, 2017 and has been updated to include video.
For Star Wars fans, Electronic Arts’ E3 press conference is the best place to get a glimpse at the future of the sprawling saga’s video game counterparts. At this year’s show, we can expect EA to show one new Star Wars title at the very least — Battlefront II, the sequel to 2015’s big reboot of the shooter franchise, is slated to come out later this year. There  of course be your standard sports updates, including a new FIFA game for the Switch. EA’s press conference kicks off at 3PM ET / 12PM PT on Saturday, June 10th.
But Star Wars takes center stage. You can be sure EA  have plenty of details and gameplay footage to show off for its next Battlefront. The game, due out on November 17th,  have a big focus on narrative with a new single-player campaign that gives players a perspective from the Empire’s side. There   be revamped multiplayer and playable characters from across the film installments, from Episode I’s Darth Maul to Episode VII’s Kylo Ren and Rey.
Related
But EA may have a big surprise up its sleeve. The company has been working on a new open-world Star Wars game for quite some time now with top talent on board for the project, including Uncharted and The Last of Us developer Naughty Dog’s Amy Hennig. Whether the game gets a name, a trailer, or even a release date is up in the air. But what better time than at the year’s biggest game showcase to show the world its ambitious new project?
Starting time: San Francisco: 12PM / New York: 3PM / London: 8PM / Moscow: 10PM / Beijing: 3AM (June 11th) / Tokyo: 4AM (June 11th) / Sydney: 5AM (June 11th)
Live streaming: Watch EA’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for all the EA stories and E3 news throughout the week.
The first teaser trailer for Marvel’s Black Panther is finally here, having just aired during game four of the NBA Finals. Here, we see Chadwick Boseman reprise his role as T’Challa, the Black Panther and the newly crowned king of Wakanda. We  get a glimpse of Michael B. Jordan as Erik Killmonger, a Wakandan exile who sets out to dethrone the Black Panther, and the Dora Milaje, an all-female special forces squad and  the personal bodyguards of T’Challa. And it wouldn’t be a Marvel teaser without an absurd slow-motion aerial maneuver.
Black Panther is easily one of the more important and highly anticipated films Marvel has on its slate. Directed by Ryan Coogler (Creed), the film features a predominantly black cast that includes the likes of The Walking Dead’s Danai Gurira and Star Wars: The Force Awakens’s Lupita Nyong’o. Wakanda, a fictional African nation that, in the comics, is the most advanced country on the planet,  figure immensely in the story, which promises to be a mix of superheroic action and political intrigue.
Black Panther hits theaters on February 16th, 2018.
Augmented reality company Meta has sued a former employee for stealing trade secrets regarding its technology and market strategy. The startup filed suit in California yesterday against departed head of optics Zhangyi Zhong and AR company DreamWorld USA, as well as 20 unnamed defendants. It alleges that Zhong “shamelessly leveraged” his time at Meta to misappropriate its “technologies, supply chain, manufacturing methods, and relationships, as well as business, investment and market strategies,” using them to build a prototype at DreamWorld. DreamWorld calls the charges “completely baseless.”
Zhong worked for Meta for 16 months before departing in July of 2016. DreamWorld announced its first product, called the DreamGlass, last month. The headset is supposed to cost under $350, compared to the $949 Meta 2 headset, which started shipping last year.
According to Meta, that was possible because Zhong was heavily involved in developing the Meta 2, and had access to Meta’s extensive research about augmented reality, as well as information about its relationships to manufacturers. It alleges that he quit without notice under the false pretense of a medical condition, then secretly founded DreamWorld under a new nickname and began running it through an intermediary, which Meta believes is his wife or girlfriend. Thus, the company could create “a product that took Meta years of trial and error to prototype in a fraction of the time, with a fraction of the effort.”
Meta’s suspicions were raised by an early UploadVR article about DreamGlass, which described “a Meta-esque optics system” and expressed surprise at the headset’s low cost and aggressive release timeline. UploadVR said that the headset was smaller and lighter than the Meta 2, but that its tracking system performed significantly worse. Meta’s headset is designed to be tethered to a PC, while DreamGlass plugged into an Android phone. The lawsuit says that as an optical engineer, Zhong had “no technical experience” with aspects of the headset that appeared to be taken from Meta.
Augmented and mixed reality is a hotly contested space, and the Meta 2 is one of the best-known headsets, alongside Microsoft’s HoloLens. But Meta says DreamWorld “falsely and fraudulently held out to the public that DreamGlass is an entirely new product that has no relationship to any of its competitor’s previous products or prototypes.” It’s accusing the company and Zhong of trade secret misappropriation, breach of contract, and fraudulent business practices.
DreamWorld disputed the allegations. “All the claims alleged by Meta Company are  completely baseless and without merit. DreamWorld USA Inc. and myself  are discussing this matter with our attorney and  take actions to  respond in due course.”
Update June 10th, 8:45AM ET: Added comment from DreamWorld.
Meta v. DreamWorld complaint by Anonymous mljudBdu on Scribd

Federal prosecutors have filed a hate crime charge against 51-year-old Kansas resident Adam Purinton, according to the Department of Justice. Purinton, who is accused of shooting three people in an Olathe bar, reportedly told a local Garmin engineer to “get out of my country” before opening fire. Purinton is currently being held on first-degree murder charges filed by local prosecutors.
Garmin engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed in the attack, remembered by family and co-workers as a gentle man eager to help friends. “He did not deserve a death like this,” Kuchibhotla’s wife said in the days of the attack. Kuchibhotla’s friend and fellow Garmin employee Alok Madasani was injured, as well as a third man who attempted to intervene. Early reports indicate that Purinton believed Kuchibhotla and Madasani were of Middle-Eastern descent, and yelled racial slurs in advance of the attack.
Today’s indictment accuses Purinton of committing murder “because of Kuchibhotla’s actual and perceived race, color, religion and national origin,” with additional charges for the attempted murder of Madasani and violations of federal firearm statutes. The Justice Department declined to say whether it  pursue the death penalty, although it is authorized by the hate crime statute.
Cortana might be getting a makeover. Two separate reports today from Thurrott and Windows Central mention the possibility of a changed UI for Cortana that’ll make it more conversational. Generally, both stories allude to the idea that Microsoft is trying to make it easier to both discover and regularly interact with its virtual assistant.
Windows Central reports that Microsoft is producing a more conversational UI for Cortana that’ll resemble Google Assistant on Android. Although users can already type a question to Cortana, the new interface might more closely resemble a texting conversation, like Allo. These written responses could be accompanied by a voice reply. Voice input  still exist, as well.
Meanwhile, Thurrott says that in addition to making its interface more conversational, Microsoft is considering relocating the assistant in Windows 10 to the system tray, near the clock. This would make it harder for users to hide the assistant.  We don’t have confirmation or a release date for these features.
Microsoft released a test version of Windows 10 yesterday, which included changes to Cortana. It can set reminders by scanning images (with your permission) for things like events. So if you take a photo of a poster, Cortana can then create a reminder from it. Cortana  has a new lasso feature that lets stylus users circle content to create reminders for things like movies.
All-electric racing series Formula E heads to Berlin’s Tempelhof Airport this Saturday and Sunday for a double-header weekend of racing in Germany. The 20-car showdowns  be the seventh and eighth races of the season, and they take place each day at 4PM local time on a sweeping 10-turn, 2.25-kilometer (1.4-mile) layout.
This is the third time the series has raced in Berlin (you can see highlights from last year’s race here), but it’s the first time the race has taken place at Tempelhof Airport since season one. There’s a pretty good points battle between the top two in the drivers’ championship — Lucas di Grassi trails points leader Sebastien Buemi by 43 points — and Audi is within shouting distance of Renault, which leads in the race for the manufacturers’ trophy.
This is an exciting year for Formula E and a great time to start watching the young series, because big names like Jaguar and BMW have joined an already competitive field. The greater push toward electric vehicles has caused major automakers to either flock to the series or express their interest. (Mercedes has secured an option to enter in season five, and Ferrari even said it’s considering joining.)
Formula E has only run 26 races so far, so you might be wondering just what the hell it is. You’re not alone! The series pulled in hundreds of thousands of viewers per race in both the US and the UK last season, but the awareness is still low — especially outside of the motorsports world.
That said, there’s a lot to like about Formula E that might even appeal to people who have never sat through a full NASCAR, IndyCar, or Formula One race. (For one, Formula E races are short!) So here’s a quick breakdown of how you can watch this weekend’s race, and a guide on the most important things to keep an eye on if you’re new to the series.

Fox owns the broadcast rights in the United States, and many of the races air live on either Fox Sports 1 or Fox Sports 2. That means they’re  available on the Fox Sports Go mobile app (if you have a cable subscription). This weekend’s first race in Berlin  air live Fox Sports 2, with coverage starting at 9:30AM ET.  Sunday’s race coverage starts at the same time, but  be aired live on Fox Sports 1.
Channel 5 owns the UK broadcast rights this season, and the race can be seen live on both Saturday and Sunday afternoons at 2:30PM BST there. In Germany, live coverage be carried on DMAX. Formula E broadcasts in dozens of other countries, too, and those schedules can be found here.
Outside of certain countries (like the US), Formula E streams its races on its website and mobile app for free. If you miss a race, the series usually has a 5–6-minute highlight video posted to YouTube within the first 24 hours. Later in the week the series uploads a 50-minute version — essentially the full race for free. One last good place for info is the Formula E subreddit.

Formula E is a racing series. The cars may be electric, and there are definitely some other quirks (which we’ll get to), but if you’ve seen an F1 or IndyCar race, it’s fairly similar. There are 10 teams with two drivers per team for a total of 20 cars, competing across a 12 race season. There are two championship trophies: one for the driver with the most points at the end of the season, and one for the highest-scoring team.
But there are important differences in Formula E that set it apart.

One of the most unique aspects of Formula E is that almost every race takes place on a temporary street circuit in or near the center of a major city. The series leverages the fact that the cars are relatively quiet compared to their oil-burning counterparts, as well as local governments’ ingness to promote anything related to clean energy, in order to pull this all off. It’s a refreshing break from the purpose-built racing circuits that flood the Formula One race calendar.
The series has already pulled off races in cities like Paris, Berlin, London, Miami, and Long Beach. In season three, Formula E is adding New York City, Montreal, Hong Kong, Marrakesh, and Brussels to the mix. The series is  returning to the legendary Monaco street circuit in May — it raced there in season one, but scheduling conflicts kept it off of the season two schedule.
There are a few reasons for racing in cities. First and foremost, it’s a promotional tool. If you can pull off a race in the middle of a city, you’re bound to attract more attention from outside the motorsport world than you would at a track that’s miles away. Second, it keeps the courses shorter, since the series has to minimize the impact on the host city. Shorter courses mean closer racing, but more braking and turns means the batteries can last a bit longer, too.
Formula E is like other racing series at a very high level, but the actual racing is distinct, because the drivers aren’t always pushing the cars as hard as they possibly can. Formula E drivers have to strike a very tough balance between running hard to race for the win and managing the remaining energy in the battery. The cars have both regular brakes and regenerative brakes, the latter of which can send kinetic energy back into the battery. But recharging the battery this way heats it up, so they  have to be sure not to overheat the system — otherwise, the car  shut down.
You can watch Formula E races without really paying attention to this aspect of the competition, but it’s a significant source of drama. The broadcast does a good job keeping you informed about what drivers are struggling to strike this balance, thanks to a great pair of announcers, the occasional eavesdropping on team radio communications, and the fact that you can always see how much battery each driver has left.

There are some huge automotive names involved with Formula E already. Jaguar, BMW, Renault, Audi, and Citroën all run (or have a hand in running) teams. Lesser-known startups are in the mix, too — Faraday Future and NextEV, two electric car companies with Chinese backing, race in the series. Formula E  has some big-name team sponsors, like Virgin and Panasonic. And there are some legacy motorsport names involved, too: legendary F1 driver Alain Prost runs the Renault team (and his son drives one of the cars), Mario Andretti’s son Michael runs another team, and Jay Penske — son of NASCAR and IndyCar team owner Roger Penske — runs a team as well.
But this is electric racing, so where’s Tesla?
The thinking is that all these other companies are just starting to explore electric vehicles, so they are interested in Formula E because it can help lay some technical and philosophical foundation when it comes to developing an EV. Tesla has been making electric cars for a while now, so it’s likely that the company just doesn’t see the need to get involved. Joining Formula E would  require time, money, and labor — things that a company with thin margins like Tesla probably can’t afford. (Tesla fans looking for a racing fix should keep an eye on the Electric GT World Series, launching in 2017.)

Speaking of, those announcers are superb. Jack Nicholls and Dario Franchitti have become an incredible announcing team over the course of the first two seasons. Nicholls is excitable and high-energy, while Franchitti — a four-time IndyCar champion and three-time Indy 500 winner — is cool, insightful, and funny. The races are worth watching to listen to their commentary alone.

Formula E races are shorter than almost every other major motorsport. NASCAR’s marathon races can last upwards of four hours, F1 and IndyCar hover in the 1–2-hour range. Formula E races last about 50 minutes. This is a good thing — during a long NASCAR race, it’s sometimes easy to lose the thread of what’s going on. The ticking clock of Formula E means the drama is always palpable.
The short race length is  out of the series’s hands right now, since the batteries in the cars are only currently capable of lasting around 25 minutes under the stress of the race. This  change in season five when the series gets a newer, more powerful battery. But until then, it means every driver has to make one pit stop in the middle of the race. They don’t swap batteries though, they swap cars.

I’ll admit, it’s weird watching a driver — especially one who’s spent 25 minutes fighting tooth and nail for the lead of the race — pull into the pits, hop out of a car, hop into another one, and take off again. Formula E chose this route because quickly swapping a battery in the middle of the race could be extremely dangerous for the pit crew (and making the battery easily removable would add weight to the cars, making them slower).
Here’s the thing though: it’s fine! The car swaps take about a minute but they are otherwise no different from a pit stop. And since the drivers only have to make one stop — not two or three or four like in other series — the car swaps add some clear drama to each race. Some drivers try to conserve energy in the first half of the race in order squeeze an extra lap out of the battery, allowing them to push the second car harder. Other drivers push their cars too hard and risk killing the battery before crossing the finish line. The race broadcasts constantly show each drivers’ remaining battery percentage, too, so there’s no guesswork.
Regardless, this  all change in season five, when the series  have a new battery from McLaren that  last the entire race.

One of the most talked-about aspects of Formula E when it was created was “Fanboost,” a fan voting contest held before each race that awards the winning drivers an extra boost of power that they can use in the race. Many people, especially longtime race fans, hated this idea. But over two seasons it’s amounted to almost nothing. The drivers mention it on broadcasts and tweet about it all the time, but that’s because they have to — it’s an obvious tool for engaging with the fans. In the context of the race, the extra bit of power often means nothing.
While the voting aspect is unique, the idea of a power boost isn’t — other racing series  have similar ideas, just in different forms. IndyCar drivers have access to a “push to pass” button that affords a number of boosts throughout a race, and Formula One has a few different systems that let drivers temporarily make their cars go faster.

The drivers of Formula E are a pretty exceptional bunch even if they’re not household names. (To be fair, recognition is a problem for most motorsports these days.) A cynic could look at them as cast-offs from other series like Formula One, but the reality is that F1 is a really hard series to compete in — if you even come near running an F1 car, you’re probably one of the most talented drivers in the world.
Some of the drivers already have outsized personalities that match their talent. Lucas di Grassi is a happy-go-lucky championship contender. Sebastien Buemi is a temperamental trophy-winner. Nelson Piquet Jr. is probably the most recognizable of the bunch to anyone who’s casually followed motorsports in the last decade.
The drivers who’ve been in the series for a while now never shut up about how competitive the field is. But if Formula E wants to grow beyond being a niche sport, it’s either going to have to bring world-renowned drivers into the mix or find a way to make its current stars more recognizable.

Or it could ditch drivers altogether. At some point in the near future, Formula E could have a warm-up act called Roborace. It  supposedly pit some Tron-style self-driving cars against each other on the same city circuits that Formula E runs on. But Roborace’s organizers haven’t picked an actual debut date yet. So far we’ve only seen footage of its test car, known as “DevBot,” and some footage of the production car slowly lapping the Paris track. The people behind it have been publishing behind-the-scenes documentary shorts, which helps shed some more light on the project. It’s a fascinating idea, for sure, but Formula E is already a really hard sell in a crowded media landscape.

Whether you find it interesting or not, Formula E is doing something completely outrageous. The series gathered up hundreds of millions of dollars of investment money and pumped it all into this electric racing series. When you look at where things are headed with electric vehicles, it makes sense that there  be all sorts of electric racing in 5, 10, or 20 years — in fact, it’s already happening.


One of the key features of iOS 11, which Apple announced earlier this week, is augmented reality. But Apple’s ho-hum demo during the event — a tabletop game, similar to what we’ve seen from other AR projects like Google’s Tango — still left a lot of us wondering how iOS developers would use AR once they got their hands on the tool that powers it. Thankfully, they’re already sharing their first results, and many of them are wonderfully weird.
Meetings  never be boring again!
Bar charts are so boring!!! #ARKit @thevrara #ios #iosdev #wwdc pic.twitter.com/jpG4VLGZ8n
For when you want to vandalize without all the messy consequences.
Doodling with the new #ARKit @Apple @madewithunity #madewithunity #ar #socool ##iOS11 smashes it out of the park! pic.twitter.com/4K0N2wcH4q
Want to pretend you’re living in an anime world but don’t have 100 hours to dump into Persona 5? Here you go:
Playing with #ARkit #unity   Real time post effects and video recording with #unitychan pic.twitter.com/eP6JQxmwVC
No fuss, no muss, no need to come to terms with death!
My #wwdc lab was quiet, so I modified the ARKit sample code to place dogs randomly throughout the building pic.twitter.com/2arBY4F1Vj
Nothing says “persistent gaming” like having digital baddies chase you around the real world.
Tracking got a little messed up by the dark but wow! Apples #arkit is nuts. pic.twitter.com/i9SQIAtqK5
BB-8! BB-8! BB — you get the picture.
Because bragging to your friends about it on Instagram Stories clearly isn’t enough.
My bike ride in AR. (Unity + ARKit + Mapbox + Strava) pic.twitter.com/g2uVwVlM3h
Honestly I don’t know what else to tell you.
How else do you expect me to personally reenact the naval battles of the War of 1812? Buy a bunch of real boats?
Naval battle on our office floor! @Apple ARKit is incredible. We can't wait to make some games for it! #ar #apple #arkit #AugmentedReality pic.twitter.com/9TFVu3zJUo

Listen, it’s not a fad unless it shows up everywhere.
Fidget spinner in ARKit pic.twitter.com/zCbvr8HOmX
None of these are particularly revolutionary, though some of them (like this) do show that Apple’s approach to tracking could actually work pretty well. Phone-based AR has been growing in fits and starts for the last few years, and Snapchat (and, of course, Instagram and Facebook) has sort of been bringing it to the masses with filters for your face and the world around you.
But the idea that, by this fall, augmented reality could be spread to the billion devices running iOS means we could be facing a huge turning point for the technology. What looks like a weird idea this week could wind up being the next Pokémon Go this fall.
Apple’s next iPhones, due out some time in the fall, won’t be capable of gigabit cellular connections due to the company’s contentious legal battle with smartphone modem supplier Qualcomm, according to a report today from Bloomberg.
Apple relies on mobile modems from both Qualcomm and Intel, but only Qualcomm’s X16 LTE modem is currently capable of gigabit internet speeds. All four major US carriers are eager to make use of these faster smartphone download speeds as soon as this year in a bid to edge out competitors and gain market share. And hardware makers across the tech industry are releasing new products and offering new components to make this a reality some time in the near future.
Still, Intel needs more time to develop its modem and won’t be capable of shipping it inside new iPhones in the fall. Under normal circumstances, Apple could simply use only Qualcomm components for the next iPhone release, which is believed to come in the form of both a iPhone 7S / 7S Plus and a premium, bezel-less iPhone 8 to mark the device’s 10th anniversary. Samsung, for instance, does rely only on Qualcomm, making its Galaxy S8 capable of gigabit connections. However, because Apple and Qualcomm are currently suing one another in multiple countries over Qualcomm’s alleged illegal monopoly on smartphone modems, the iPhone maker is hesitant to cut a deal that would make it more reliant on its legal opponent, Bloomberg reports.
The end result is that Apple  ship devices with both Qualcomm and Intel modems, but refuse to enable the faster speeds on the Qualcomm devices. This is because Apple doesn’t want to bifurcate its user base into those with faster speeds and those with standard LTE connections, Bloomberg reports, while it  moves to undermine Qualcomm’s dominance in the mobile market.
This could all be a moot point: there’s no telling when AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile, or Sprint  be able to confidently say they’re providing gigabit speeds to customers. Without the actual network coverage, having a faster smartphone modem won’t mean anything, and customers certainly won’t know the difference. As it stands, all four networks are racing to be the first to blanket the US with faster versions of LTE, yet what that rollout ends up looking like is still unclear. So true gigabit may still be two or three years away, at which point Apple’s modem choice won’t matter because every modem  be capable of supporting those speeds.
At the wrap of Apple’s WWDC keynote, we learned that the company was set to announce Business Chat, a new tool that  allow businesses to add a live chat / customer support feature. But unlike what currently exists with Twitter’s DM feature or Facebook’s Messenger for Business, Apple’s platform won’t require businesses to have a social media presence, as customers can simply search for them on Spotlight, Siri, or Maps.
During a WWDC session today, Apple elaborated more on just how it works. Business Chat essentially combines the app component of Messenger and the customer service portion from Twitter, letting you talk to businesses to get shopping / scheduling / general inquiry advice and reach out to file a dispute all from the same chat thread.

Just like Messenger, Apple’s Business Chat  allow customers to shop and buy products straight from chat. Unlike Messenger, the linked payment solution appears to be strictly Apple Pay. Businesses can show items in stock in a list format which pops up from the conversation and prevents them from having to open a new window.
For businesses that offer appointments, Business Chat links up with the user’s own calendar so that they can see if an offered time slot conflicts with their schedule. There are  other little useful features like predictive text, that can load a type ahead message such as address or phone number when the business asks for it.
For things more complex than scheduling and shopping, businesses can direct users to download an iMessage app to complete their request. For example, an airline might have a specific app that helps a passenger select their seat from within their conversation. It’s a similar tactic to how Facebook encourages developers to build their own apps and bots within Messenger.
Business Chat currently works with other customer service platforms like Salesforce and Nuance, and is not restricted to companies without retail locations. The feature is currently being offered in a developer preview and businesses can register here. Once they’re through, they can whitelist employees to build out the tool before offering the service widely.
The concept from both Apple and Facebook borrows from what’s already quite popular in Asia’s e-commerce scene on WeChat and LINE, so I’m curious to see whether they can compete in that region once the features inevitably expand overseas.
Being aboard the International Space Station gives astronaut Jack Fischer an excuse to play with his food — making mundane drinks like coffee much more fun.
“I love coffee on Earth,” he said on NASA TV in a Q&A session with elementary-school students. “But in space, I get to make balls out of it…and then suck the balls. Very cool.” In this clip, he squeezes a bag, and unappetizing brownish balls of liquid squirt from the straw. Fischer guides the hovering spheres to his face and slurps them up.
What does @Astro2fish like to eat in space? pic.twitter.com/RK2FC4IcDA
Basically, liquid coffee coalesces into gooey-looking balls in microgravity because water molecules are happiest when they’re surrounded by other water molecules. That’s their lowest energy state, which is why water molecules group together into droplets here on Earth, and into spheres when gravity isn’t pulling them downward.
The unhappy water molecules on the surface of the droplet or the sphere grip especially hard to one another, forming a sort of skin that keeps the sphere from flying apart. This phenomenon is called surface tension, and you can watch it at play when Astronaut Don Pettit pops this water balloon in space. The water that sprays free eventually undulates into spheres.
“As you can see, it’s pretty fun to play with your food here in space, so I do. And that pretty much makes everything my favorite dish,” Fischer said, floating away from the camera.
This week, NASA announced its newest class of astronauts: 12 extremely qualified individuals who  train for the next two years to fly to space. While many of these new hires have a few shared traits — such as degrees in STEM or flight experience — they all have extremely diverse interests and backgrounds. The new group includes former military personnel, doctors, marine biologists, engineers, and a geologist who worked on the Mars Curiosity rover.
We spoke with two of NASA’s newest astronaut candidates, Robb Kulin and Zena Cardman, who perfectly illustrate that there is no normal path for becoming an astronaut. Kulin has spent most of his career at SpaceX, working on the Falcon 9 rocket and making sure the company’s missions are safe and reliable. Cardman has primarily been focused on studying ecosystems of lakes and oceans and learning how to do science on other worlds.
Though the two do have something fairly unique in common: they’ve both spent time in Antarctica. And they say that living there was a good way to train for leaving the planet.
These interviews have been edited and condensed.
You grew up in Anchorage, Alaska. What was it like living so far up north and did it contribute in any way to wanting to go to space?
Growing up in Alaska is absolutely incredible. I hate to say this being in Texas right now, but there’s honestly no other place in the world I’d rather live more than Alaska. Some of the great parts about it are the adventurous people that you find yourself surrounded by. One of my good friends growing up, she was the youngest person for quite a while to climb Denali, which kind of gives you a flavor for the spirit of people that you’re with. A lot of people spend time flying their own planes around the state, going on adventurous trips. And I think that whole spirit for adventure and exploration is kind of what got me interested in space in the first place.
You’re no stranger to living in cold environments, since you’ve  spent time as an ice driller in Antarctica. How was that experience?
Antarctica is, I’d say, the most off-planet experience you can probably have on the planet. I was in two different places down there, once working deep in the interior in a place called the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. And it’s like being out on the ocean there. It’s flat, white, no topology… and it’s mind blowing.
And the other region that I was in is a place called the Taylor Glacier [which is on a dry valley]. That area is incredible, because as you can imagine from the name, dry valleys means that there’s not a lot of precipitation. So what you get is a lot of old snow and old ice and a lot of bare rock. The rocks down there bring about a whole different picture than what you think about when you’re in mountains elsewhere. It’s phenomenal and gorgeous; it’s just like being on a different planet in some ways.
At what point did you start getting interested in space?
Maybe you could say I’m not very smart, because what gave me the space bug was actually doing a project on the Columbia disaster back in undergrad — looking at the approach of the investigation and some of the findings there. And I guess I’d never really thought much about space until that point. That kind of let me bridge out and think more about space and NASA in general. I wasn’t attracted by the awfulness there, of course, but it was an introduction in general to start looking in that direction.
And that eventually led you to working at SpaceX. When did you first get involved with the company?
My first introduction to SpaceX, I kind of rolled my eyes because I’d seen their first couple of failures and I wasn’t imaginative enough to understand what they were really trying to achieve. When I really got turned onto SpaceX was when I went out for a Shuttle launch and happened to go with a friend of a friend that worked there. And he got us a tour of SLC-40 [one of SpaceX’s launch sites at Cape Canaveral, Florida], and they’d just done a raising of a model Falcon 9; they called it Capricorn 1. And they were pretty amped on that.
It was these guys trying to do some pretty ambitious, but  low-cost, engineering just to get this company going. And the energy they had was incredible, as well as the responsibility and the ability for an engineer to get their hands dirty. I quickly turned around from thinking they were a little silly to being really impressed and deciding I wanted to apply and try to work there as soon as I finished grad school.
What did you work on at SpaceX?
The majority of my time — it’s really been spread out while I’ve been there — I’ve done some design and analysis of various components on the first stage of Falcon 9. Some of those components, even though they started flying back on flight six, a few of them actually still fly.
And then in the last year and a half, I’ve been running what’s called the launch chief engineering group, which is part of flight reliability. And our job has really been to make sure we have safe and reliable flight, and bring all the teams together to have a successful mission. Then in the unfortunate event that we have an anomaly like we had last fall, our team leads that investigation.
How long have you been applying to be an astronaut and what was the process like?
So this is the third time I’ve applied. The first time I knew I was probably borderline not qualified, but I wanted to give it a shot to see how it goes. The second time I did actually get invited in and made it to the final 50. And then of course, this time, I made it through.
But it’s a long process. They really have to do their best to whittle it down step by step. It really starts becoming notable when you get invited in for the first interview, which I think was 120 people for both rounds I made it through. And then if you’re lucky, after about a three-day process of some medical, some interviews, psych tests, etc., you get invited for the second round. And the second round is more of a week-long process, with a lot more poking and prodding. [They’re] really trying to make sure that you’re healthy enough medically to be qualified. One of the big objectives that the team is going for here at NASA is they’re trying to see, “Hey if I got stuck with this guy on Space Station, is that actually something I’d enjoy?”
How was it breaking the news to SpaceX?
It’s been a really amazingly supportive response, which I think is awesome. Even [CEO] Elon [Musk] offered his congratulations, which was great. But I think there’s  been some sadness to see that I’ll be leaving later this summer. To feel valued that way by the team really makes me feel pretty awesome.
Eventually, SpaceX’s Dragon capsule  start taking astronauts to the ISS. I’m assuming you’d like to ride in that one?
You know, I do have to admit I would love to ride on a Falcon 9 and a Dragon. But I’d  be happy to ride in anything that I’d be given the opportunity to fly in. But yeah, it’d be pretty cool, especially if I knew that some of my components were still on Falcon 9, to be on top.
You are obviously a big ocean buff. Where did you get your love of studying marine ecology?
I’m a microbiologist by training. I first got into biology as a high school student. I had a phenomenal teacher in high school, and he encouraged me to pursue research outside the classroom. Then in college, I got connected with several field projects from British Columbia to Antarctica. A lot of these projects were looking at microorganisms, how they interact with their environment, but usually in the context of the ocean or lakes. So eventually I found a home in marine sciences.
It seems like going to Antarctica is a theme in this astronaut class. Robb Kulin  spent time there and said it was almost like being off the planet. What was the experience like for you?
It was a blast. A lot of these projects, what makes them so special, is really the people who go there. And everyone I’ve met in Antarctica shares this similar passion for doing research but  exploring and being on the frontiers and being outside. And it’s a good group of people who like to work in teams. And I think even more so than, you know, this extreme weather or being at the ends of the Earth, there may be more applications in just the ability to work in a team in a remote environment with the space program.
There’s a similar lack of fresh fruits and vegetables, too.
And you’ve already had some experience with NASA analog missions — projects done on Earth that could be applied to space. How did you get involved?
I actually got involved by accident really. I was trying to get to Antarctica, so I had emailed all kinds of different scientists, most of whom didn’t even respond. A lot of them said, “No we don’t have space or the resources.” One woman, named Darlene Lim at NASA Ames, wrote back. She said, “I’m not going to Antarctica, but we have this project in Canada. You should come along.”
And that wound up being a project called Pavilion Lake. It’s in British Columbia, and through that project I got to do really interesting science from a microbiology perspective but then  apply that science to figuring out how to do science on another planet. And I  got to work with people at universities all over the world. Scientists from the Canadian Space Agency and actually both Canadian and US NASA astronauts. That was really my first entry into the NASA family.
So when did you turn your eye from the oceans to space?
I can’t ever say I’ve turned my eyes away from the ocean. That’s still very much a part of my research and who I am. But it was sometime during college that I really realized I had accumulated this set of applicable skills. Not only the science, but getting to work in remote places, learning to fix things, working in these small groups, and how I could use that in the space program.
When did you start applying to become an astronaut?
This application cycle was the first time I actually even qualified. So for the last class, I knew I wanted to do that someday, but I was barely out of college, didn’t yet meet the bare minimum requirements. So when I heard the announcement this time, I was gung ho from the get go.
So the application is really just a resume. You submit a resume to a government website and then there’s a lot of waiting until you get that phone call out of the blue to come to Houston for an interview.
That phone call was so surreal. I almost didn’t pick up, because I didn’t recognize the number. I wasn’t expecting it. And I think there were several moment of stunned silence before I finally busted out smiling and almost laughing and said, “Yes, I would be completely honored to come down to Houston.”
How do you think you’ll incorporate your experience studying the ocean into being an  astronaut?
A lot of oceanography gives you perspective on the Earth as a whole system, almost like one big organism, since the oceans are so interconnected and the ecosystems within the oceans are so interconnected. So it’s given me really this perspective of Earth as a whole.
On top of that it gives you very practical experience working on ships, on research vessels, again with these small teams in a remote place in a confined space. So I think all of that  give me a lot of good experience as we head toward this new exciting adventure.
A lot of the research experience I have is very relevant to our search for life on other planets. But more so than that, I’m looking forward to being part of a research project that’s even bigger than my own personal research. So I’m more excited to contribute to the projects going on on the Space Station and perhaps beyond.
Are there any missions in particular you’d like to be on?
I think I speak for everyone when I say we’re just excited to be involved in any of the projects going on in the space program. First we have a two-year training period, so that’s our focus right now. But after we graduate from astronaut candidates to astronauts, I think honestly it’s going to be the mindset of “Have spacesuit,  travel.” We’re just incredibly excited to go anywhere.
Any parting advice for those who want to be astronauts someday?
There is the requirement for a degree in a STEM program — so science, technology, engineering, math. And that’s a really good concrete way to get started for anyone who wants to be an astronaut. But my main advice is just pursue something that you love. Because if you wake up curious and excited every morning, you’re going to be really happy no matter what the end result is, whatever career you wind up in. Just pursue whatever interests you. You know, I sit here in this blue flight suit, and I have to say it’s possible. So you just have to go for it.

Dan Scavino, the White House social media director, broke the law when he lambasted a Congressman on social media, the Office of Special Counsel said in a letter today.
In April, Scavino tweeted that House Republican Justin Amash “is a big liability,” and he encouraged Trump supporters to defeat Amash in a primary vote.
.@realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability.#TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary.
Some observers suggested the tweet, although innocuous by some examples from the current administration, may have violated a law called the Hatch Act. The act, from 1939, bars government officials from using their positions for campaigning purposes. According to a complaint filed with the White House Office of Special Counsel by the left-leaning watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, Scavino’s tweet crossed the line.
There were some questions, however, about how the law should be applied in the digital age. The tweet was sent on a Saturday, and from a personal account, muddying whether it was sent in an official White House capacity.
In its response to CREW, the Special Counsel’s Chief of the Hatch Act argued that it was a violation, and the office said it had sent a warning letter to Scavino, who was recently counseled on the issue. The office said it had not found any other violations on Scavino’s Twitter account, but wrote that, if it does, it “ consider such activity to be a ful and knowing violation of the law.”

We recently celebrated that Apple at long last made the decision to change its volume control in iOS 11 to something less intrusive (which, to be fair, would be almost anything but what it currently is). Coincidentally, at the same time, Redditors were having a field day over in r/ProgrammerHumor in a thread that begs the question, “Who can make the best volume slider?” The results have been pouring in since. Some are the volume slider equivalent of chindogu — not useful, but , not useless — while others are exercises in minutiae frustration. Some are straight up absurd. They’re all delightful.
Which slider is the worst, though? Well, let the games commence.
First, the cringey slider that started it all — a classic-looking interface that simply changes the direction of functionality in a vertical volume bar. It’s a nice baseline to set, but let’s up the ante, shall we?
How about this one that adjusts the volume based upon your Mac’s ambient light sensor?
Or one tied to a random dice roll, because changing the volume should be exciting (and perhaps, an exercise in futility when you realize the maximum volume can only be 96).
But really, volume control should be intuitive, and invite concerned neighbors to check in on you when they hear random screams.
Or maybe it should be uniquely yours, because we are all wonderful, inimitable individuals, and that should be celebrated.
And finally, why slide when you can launch?
When  user experience jokes not be funny? Probably never, as services / products continue to be in a constant race with themselves to make things “better” while often neglecting how we interact with them (ahem, HomePod). So, feel free to cry / laugh away.
Dig through and see more of the best / worst volume sliders over on Reddit.
Every week, a slew of new music videos hits the web. Watching them at your desk is not time theft because you deserve it; think of it as a nice reward for surviving another work week. But what if you don’t have time to watch every video? Maybe you have a deadline, a hungry pet, or other grown-up concerns. In consideration of your schedule, Lizzie and Kaitlyn bring you a series called One Video. Each week we’ll tell you “one video” you need to watch, why, and for how long.
Lizzie: What’s a better way to recapture the love and attention of a fickle internet than by writing about a new Mac DeMarco video? It’s Friday baby, and all you freaked-out freaky skater boys have a message from the king!
In “One Another,” Mac becomes unlikely friends with the Grim Reaper, but it’s not that unlikely because who couldn’t be friends with Mac? According to the video description, “Their friendship has one drawback: they can look but cannot touch.”
Kaitlyn: Somewhere between most and all of my friendships involve very little touching, but I get it. Once in a while you just want the warm embrace of a levitating skeleton.
Friendship is a key theme of this week’s One Video, and a key reason for “One Another” being selected as the one video. Mac DeMarco is well known for breaking the fourth wall of celebrity by befriending his own fans — inviting them to his home in Queens for coffee, rallying them around his mom in an elaborate fan club, sincerely thanking them for paying his bills, and so on. In April, he asked to see all the fan fiction they had written about him, which is sort of a bold move friendship-wise (why hasn’t Lizzie written fan fiction about me?), but still fun. Lizzie wrote Mac a story at the time, in a gesture of friendship, but I don’t know for sure that she submitted it. Mac, my friend, if you are reading, the story is about Bud Light Lime, please enjoy!
Lizzie: Asking “who is Mac DeMarco” is like asking “how do you make a soufflé?” Everybody knows the answer but nobody really knows, you know what I’m saying? More specifically though, Mac DeMarco is a musician on the Captured Tracks record label, a boy who plays the guitar, and a person who has probably been described hundreds (and I actually mean hundreds) of times as a “goofball.”
I just found out that Mac’s real name is Vernor Winfield McBriare Smith IV, but that definitely sounds like a troll that he just convinced Pitchfork to publish.
Kaitlyn: Mac DeMarco is a musician whose latest album is called This Old Dog, a phrase that  appears in the song “One Another.” His music is pretty much the sweet, harmless version of a weird old uncle trying to give you life advice after three Budweisers on Thanksgiving afternoon. For some reason he’s really well known for putting a cigarette between his front teeth one time, but I know him because boys talk about him a lot.
Lizzie:  What’s special about “One Another” is that our boy Mac has proved once again that nothing can take him down, not even death.  I especially like the part near the beginning when he’s just giving the Grim Reaper directions or something, before he gets “old” by letting what I’m assuming is queso dry on his face.
Kaitlyn: This video is special because it reveals that Mac DeMarco either lives in a house with a twin bed covered in teddy bear sheets or explicitly chose to rent a house by that description in order to film a music video. It  reveals that Mac reads People magazine — me too! But even more special than those two things: the song “One Another” is about becoming friends with someone you used to be in romantic love with. Mac kindly reveals that, in his experience, that situation can actually be nice and not a horrible disaster. I’m not really sure how equating an ex-flame with the Grim Reaper is flattering, but I’m sure my friend Mac wouldn’t do anything rude.
There’s  a moment in this video in which Mac is feigning death, but then decides there’s time for “one last rock.” And so, everyone goes outside and rocks it — with various instruments, their bodies, and their voices — one last time. How lovely.
(I’m pretty sure it wasn’t the last time, Mac DeMarco is almost definitely still alive.)
Lizzie: Honestly, stop before the queso-on-the-face part. I kind of think it’s not really cheese, but I can’t stop thinking that it’s cheese, and it’s making me very uncomfortable.
Kaitlyn: I like the part at the end, where everyone’s rocking it one last time and one of the guys in the band accidentally does this really scary thing with his face:
So I suppose, as usual, my answer is “the whole time.” Sorry!
Horror movies are never really about the terror they put on display. Even when monster movies are marketed and sold around a creature, they’re often just using those monsters as stand-ins. Instead, horror is a way to address larger societal concerns and fears, whether it’s the critique of white privilege in Jordan Peele’s Get Out or the anxieties of modern sexuality in It Follows.
Writer-director Trey Edward Shults (Krisha) embraces that schism wholeheartedly with his second film, It Comes At Night. The film’s creepy marketing campaign suggests it’s about a monster hiding behind a mysterious red door, or a survival movie about a plague that infects a family. Elements of both hooks are present, but those are ultimately reductive takes, ways of distilling a complex film simmering with ideas into something more simple and palatable.
Instead, It Comes At Night approaches horror as a framework, using it to construct a psychological drama about family, violence, and the pain of adolescence. It’s a meticulous piece of filmmaking, so honed and refined in execution that it becomes nearly unbearable at times. (Note: that’s a good thing.) But for a film that’s so intent on focusing on ideas rather than cheap scare tactics, it ultimately feels slightly hollow. It’s beautiful and harrowing, and undoubtedly an accomplishment, but it ultimately feels like Shults can’t decide what he wants to say.
It Comes At Night is set in some undetermined near-future. A plague has apparently wiped out vast swaths of humanity, leaving Paul (Joel Edgerton, sporting his best Kurt Russell beard) to defend his family — wife Sarah (Carmen Ejogo) and 17-year-old son Travis (Kelvin Harrison, Jr.) — in their house in the woods. The film opens with Paul killing his father-in-law, who’s suffering from the mysterious illness, before unceremoniously dumping the body into a grave and setting it on fire.
As Paul and Travis watch the body burn, both hiding behind the gas masks they wear for protection, it’s an opening sign that Shults doesn’t plan to pull any narrative punches. His film is violent and matter-of-fact, with little room for luxuries like sympathy and regret.
The problem is, Travis isn’t suited for this environment. He’s an artist who feels closer to his dog than to his father. When a man named  (Christopher Abbott) breaks into the family’s home, it sets off a chain of events that gives Travis a glimpse at a life beyond what he’s known. Paul and Sarah decide two families are better than one, so  moves into their home along with his wife, Sarah (The Girlfriend Experience’s Riley Keough) and young son Andrew (Griffin Robert Faulkner). For a time, the makeshift arrangement actually works — but eventually paranoia, fear, and doubt set in, with disastrous results.
The premise of It Comes At Night doesn’t offer anything truly new. The post-apocalyptic survival tale, where people learn how society breaks down without the comforts of structure, is practically a subgenre in its own right at this point. At first, that makes it difficult to fully embrace Shults’ film — what initially seems like a big-screen version of The Walking Dead can only spark so much enthusiasm — but that grim, uncompromising brutality sucks the air out of the theater and makes It Comes At Night stand apart from its brethren. That, and the writer-director’s impeccable style as a filmmaker.
My colleague Tasha Robinson recently had a fascinating conversation with Shults about his film grammar and visual choices, and his insights reveal why, on a technical level, It Comes At Night is a wonder. Cinematographer Drew Daniels turns traditional horror visuals — Kevin waking up from a nightmare and walking down a darkened hallway, for example — into evocative moments that linger in the mind long after the film ends. The movie sometimes feels like a Baroque painting come to life. Daniels’ use of light directs the eye in constantly surprising ways, while creating an inescapable sense of dread. Brian McOmber’s score is equally evocative, a constantly building cacophony of noise and chaos that amplifies the ever-escalating on-screen conflicts.
The irony is that for a film so full of tension, It Comes At Night is never really scary. The film has a number of cheap jump scares and reveals, but they’re all part of Travis’ ongoing nightmares. At first, when it seems the film could go anywhere, the moments are alive and full of dreadful possibility. Once it becomes clear how the film is using those dreams — they’re opportunities to add spooky exclamation points to the all-too-human conflict in the waking world — they lose a significant part of their power. Shults is thoughtful, however, and he does pay off even that loss in efficacy — but it underscores a core problem with It Comes At Night. Just because a film is well-intentioned doesn’t necessarily mean it’s effective.
The film flirts with a number of fascinating ideas and themes. Travis is dominated by his overbearing father, who seems so obsessed with protecting his family that he doesn’t realize he’s emasculating his son at every turn. On the flip side, Travis is a 17-year-old, on the brink of manhood, with nobody his age to relate to, particularly not someone of the opposite sex. That comes to the forefront when he meets Kim. These dynamics present alternative, unusual takes on the typical post-apocalyptic scenario, and there’s rich material to mine there, particularly thanks to Kelvin Harrison, Jr.’s quiet, sensitive performance. But these ultimately end up feeling like situational dynamics rather than true, coherent themes. They’re there for a moment, then abandoned.
Shults has said this is a personal film, inspired by his father’s death. It’s clear he took great care in crafting It Comes At Night, and that he’s using the film to tackle many personal topics as both a writer and a director. Unfortunately, the movie never truly articulates any single idea in any satisfying way — other than a half-defeated, “Welp, everything sucks.” It’s a wonderfully crafted piece of filmmaking that’s nearly sensual in its aesthetic considerations, but as a meaningful piece of storytelling, it never fully delivers.
To be clear, films don’t have to have some big-picture takeaway, and there’s as much power in movies that function as sheer audio-visual experiences as there is in any other kind of production. The problem with It Comes At Night is that Shults is so clearly trying to reach for more. It’s a horror film that refuses to be bound by its own genre conventions. It’s a drama that wants to tackle ideas of masculinity, violence, and the relationships between fathers and sons. It’s a mesmerizing arthouse film with no qualms about embracing jump scares and slasher-movie tropes. But more than anything else, it’s an ambitious movie — a sophomore statement from a filmmaker just beginning to grow into his powers. It’s worth celebrating in that regard alone, even when it doesn’t hit the notes it’s reaching for.
I was really excited to see Apple talk about VR at WWDC this year. It's a sign that Apple can embrace a market it doesn't entirely control, or possibly even fully understand.
Microsoft, Google, and Facebook all now offer some form of AR or VR hardware and software stack, and the ways they're investing in the future of these markets are fairly clear. But I'm still left with a lot of questions about where exactly Apple is headed.
First, let's make it clear what was actually announced:
Apple  gave a definition of what it believes to be VR:
What's lacking here is any sort of clear story for consumers. Apple even specifically stated during its VR deep-dive that the external GPUs are primarily targeted at developers. And Apple's splash page description of its VR-ready iMacs is aimed at content makers, not gamers:
VR makes its debut on iMac, with the ability to edit 360° video in apps like Final Cut Pro and create cutting-edge 3D VR content.
So I see two main possibilities here. Either Apple merely wants to support developers and artists in VR, while being content to allow the experiences they create to be mostly consumed on third-party platforms like Facebook's Oculus, Google's Daydream, and PCs running SteamVR. Or Apple has a bigger plan for consumers beyond Metal 2 and external GPUs.
There’s something a little wrong with the first option: right now it's almost silly to develop VR using Metal 2. It's an Apple-specific API that only works on Macs, iPhones, and iPads. Obviously traditional iOS game development, and other apps that depend on GPU acceleration, can benefit greatly from the improvements in Metal 2. But the return on investment for building a full VR title for macOS using Apple's technology would be minuscule — a sliver of an already small market.
If Apple truly wanted to create the best system for cross-platform VR development, it could embrace Vulkan, which is similar to Metal but  works on Windows and Linux. In fact, Valve uses Vulkan for SteamVR on Linux. It's conceivable that developers who make games in OpenGL or Vulkan for Windows and Linux can port their titles to macOS with a small Metal 2 shim, but something written entirely in Metal 2 is stranded on macOS.
Of course, a majority of developers won't have to focus too much on these details. If you build something in Unity or Unreal Engine 4, both of which have promised to support Metal 2, most of the work of porting the title to various other platforms is solved for you. And it makes sense for these engines to target Metal 2, even without macOS VR, because iOS games are such a huge market. So maybe I'm reading too much into this.
But something tells me this is only Apple's first, developer-focused step into VR, and that the consumer part of the story is still to come. Maybe Apple  release a slide-in VR headset for the upcoming iPhone. Or perhaps something bigger, like standalone AR hardware, is actually in the works.
But even if this just means Apple is going to focus on gamers with affordable, VR-friendly computers, I won't be mad.
Taylor Swift’s entire catalogue is back on Spotify. Her first four albums haven’t been available since November 2014, and her October 2014 release 1989 has never been on the service before today. It’s the end of what has inarguably been the biggest, messiest controversy of the paid streaming era, and my colleague Micah Singleton has plenty of thoughts on how it happened and what it means for the music industry.
But I’m  interested in what this decision means for Taylor Swift. Not as a pop star or Katy Perry’s nemesis (happy album release day, Katy!) or a lightning rod for controversy — but as Taylor Swift the economist, the moralist, and the vague symbol for artists’ rights.
To put Swift into some context I think is often ignored, she’s not just one of the biggest pop stars in the world: She’s  its most successful, prolific, and recognizable contemporary songwriter. That’s a designation she’s proven she cares about. She can make hundreds of millions touring as an A-list performer, but it still makes sense that a prodigiously talented young woman who was written off for years on the basis of her diaristic songwriting and frivolous interest in glitter would transition into adult pop stardom in part on a platform of business savvy and semi-empowering rhetoric about the value of her own labor.
She’s uniquely positioned to speak authoritatively on this issue as a public-facing brand and a behind-the-scenes creative. Though, that doesn’t guarantee that her stance on streaming is logically sound.
In a now-infamous essay for The Wall Street Journal, Swift wrote:
"Music is art, and art is important and rare. Important, rare things are valuable. Valuable things should be paid for. It's my opinion that music should not be free, and my prediction is that individual artists and their labels  someday decide what an album's price point is."
The thrust of this argument takes a few things for granted that weren’t true, even in 2014: For one, that Swift could use her personal situation as a standard by which to  gauge the industry’s dealings with artists. More importantly, that music takes its value from being “rare,” and for another, that the concept of a concrete “price point” for an album was still one that made any sense.
There is no such thing as “rare” when you’re talking about content that’s distributed primarily via the internet. Album sales, digital and physical, were already plummeting by the time Swift offered up these thoughts, and many of her young fans were more likely to listen to her music on YouTube, paying for the experience with auto-play ads, than they were to have gone to a Target and laid down their $14.99. But the biggest flaw in Taylor Swift’s argument? She’s Taylor Swift.
Related
She, and other top artists, stand to make millions of dollars from streaming no matter what happens, and Spotify and Apple Music even push them further ahead of the crowd by way of recommendation algorithms, featured playlists, and paid exclusives. Nothing she says  ever apply evenly to the people who might really suffer.
Swift’s 1989 was conspicuously missing from Spotify when it was released in October 2014, and Swift yanked the rest of her catalogue a month later.
Days later, she explained the decision saying:
“[A]ll I can say is that music is changing so quickly, and the landscape of the music industry itself is changing so quickly, that everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment. And I'm not ing to contribute my life's work to an experiment that I don't feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music. And I just don't agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free...  I thought, ‘I  try this; I'll see how it feels.’ It didn't feel right to me.”
Spotify had as much fun as it could with the controversy at first, writing her a pun-filled public note and promoting a playlist called “What to Play While Taylor’s Away,” so it’s mildly interesting that they’ve refrained from gloating about today’s victory. When reached for comment, a Spotify spokesperson would say only “We can confirm that Taylor Swift’s entire back catalogue is now available on Spotify for her millions of fans to enjoy,” a fact which anyone with internet access can  confirm. The spokesperson  linked to a “This Is: Taylor Swift” playlist, which looks just like the “This Is” playlist for every major artist, and has the simple tagline “She’s back. Stream all of her greatest hits now.”
Whether or not Swift’s stance on Spotify made sense, its obviously just glad to have her back, and no longer interested in going toe-to-toe. Or maybe Spotify doesn’t feel the need to point out the obvious: Streaming isn’t an experiment now, it’s just the way things are. Swift doesn’t exactly look like a hypocrite here, but she does look like someone who bet on the wrong horse.
For reasons that went unexplained by anyone from Swift’s camp, she decided one spring day to put all of her music except 1989 on Tidal. At the time, the service was available only as a “hi-fi” premium subscription sold for $19.99 per month. Since Swift’s main issue with Spotify was its free, ad-supported tier, it makes sense that she would be more ing to play ball with an all-paid service. But then, why hold back 1989? And, if she had a fundamental moral quibble with the very idea of ad-supported streams, why keep anything on YouTube? Vevo’s royalty payments aren’t anything impressive compared to Spotify or Tidal.
A blip in the timeline, this move still muddied Swift’s point.
When Apple announced three-month free trials to users ing to give Apple Music a go, and quietly told labels that artists wouldn’t be seeing any royalties for those streams, Swift took to Tumblr to express her displeasure:
“I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company.
This is not about me. Thankfully I am on my fifth album and can support myself, my band, crew, and entire management team by playing live shows. This is about the new artist or band that has just released their first single and  not be paid for its success. This is about the young songwriter who just got his or her first cut and thought that the royalties from that would get them out of debt. This is about the producer who works tirelessly to innovate and create...
...I realize that Apple is working towards a goal of paid streaming. I think that is beautiful progress. We know how astronomically successful Apple has been and we know that this incredible company has the money to pay artists, writers and producers for the 3 month trial period… even if it is free for the fans trying it out.
Three months is a long time to go unpaid, and it is unfair to ask anyone to work for nothing. I say this with love, reverence, and admiration for everything else Apple has done. I hope that soon I can join them in the progression towards a streaming model that seems fair to those who create this music. I think this could be the platform that gets it right.”
This argument, as opposed to Swift’s first statement in WSJ, acknowledges that Swift is not ever going to be personally affected by the outcome of the streaming wars. It  asks for something specific and points out a policy that’s quite obviously unfair, bringing the plights of producers and songwriters to the forefront. It’s a really strong recalibration for Swift’s message in regards to streaming, in particular because it’s not an argument against the very basic idea. Though, it  spends a weird amount of time on complimenting the richest tech company in the world.
Apple acquiesced to Swift’s demand, and agreed to pay royalties to everyone during its free trial. So the following week, she announced via Twitter that 1989 would stream for the first time on Apple Music (alongside her back catalogue).
This is simply the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album. Thank you, Apple, for your change of heart.
She  took care to note that 1989 was not an Apple Music exclusive in any contractual sense, she just didn’t want to put the album on any other services yet. Again, that’s a bit of a contradiction, considering Tidal was  subscription-only.
In an interview with Vanity Fair, swift laid out the crucial differences between her two big streaming feuds:
“Apple treated me like I was a voice of a creative community that they actually cared about. And I found it really ironic that the multi-billion-dollar company reacted to criticism with humility, and the start-up with no cash flow reacted to criticism like a corporate machine.”
This didn’t really go over very well for Swift. She sort of unfairly neglected to acknowledge that her issue with Apple had been one the super-rich company could easily solve with money, and that her fight with Spotify had been a meta-level spat over its very existence and the business model. Pandora co-founder Tom Conrad called it “mostly theater,” pointing out on Twitter that Spotify does pay out artist royalties for its free tier — exactly what Swift demanded Apple do, then thanked them for doing, complimenting their “change of heart.” What exactly is the problem with Spotify’s free tier, if they sustain it with the same system by which Apple would support its free trial? You can argue, of course, that royalties are too low in both cases, but Swift didn’t.
She  faced criticism from former One Direction member Zayn Malik, leading to a really funny and hard to follow Twitter spat between Malik and Swift’s then-boyfriend, DJ and producer Calvin Harris. Malik and Swift later recorded a duet for the Fifty Shades Darker soundtrack, so I guess everyone’s over it.
Swift’s 1989 World Tour Documentary became Apple Music’s first big video exclusive, announced to coincide with her 26th birthday: “Thank you so much for all the birthday wishes. I have a little surprise for you.” Promoting it, she always remembered to tack on an @AppleMusic.
Celebrate with us December 20 on @AppleMusic #1989WorldTourLIVE pic.twitter.com/oksxT1q6pM
Swift’s first ad for Apple Music showed her running on (and falling off of) a treadmill while listening to an Apple Music-curated playlist called “#GYMFLOW.” Specifically, she was listening to “Jumpman,” a song off of Drake and Future’s big Apple Music exclusive, What a Time To Be Alive. The ad debuted on Apple’s 40th birthday, on Swift’s personal Twitter account, with the caption “Based on true events.”
Related
Whatever nitpicks Swift might have had with the basic concept of streaming in 2014, they were seemingly all behind her at this point. Not only was she onboard with one streaming service, she was actively promoting it.
Swift’s music is  available on Pandora and Google Play Music, and 1989 has finally been added to Tidal. She hasn’t said a single thing about it, beyond her label announcing that it’s a celebration of 1989 selling 10 million copies worldwide. Maybe because there’s nothing to say other than “I had to change my mind eventually?”
Swift won her feud with Apple Music because she wanted something very specific, and she took issue with a business practice that was blatantly unfair. Her feud with Spotify was never a feud with Spotify at all — it was a feud with the entire industry, the changing landscape, and the way fans expect to access music now. She was always going to surrender, and dipping her toe in with Apple Music probably helped Spotify in the long run. As a symbol for the rights of artists in the digital age, she’s a watery one at best.
Related
Did she win anything from Spotify? Maybe. Universal Music Group, the parent company for Swift’s Big Machine Records, signed a new deal in April that lets artists opt to keep new albums off of Spotify’s free tier for their first two weeks. Spotify has  been cozying up to songwriters, announcing just this week that it would start a “Secret Genius” program — an awards show, special workshops with A-list talent, and curated playlists in honor of the almighty lyricist. She might see that as a welcome sign of respect. And Swift is famous for lacing her album booklets with riddles and clues about the songs’ meaning. Maybe, with the death of the album insert, Spotify’s new Genius integration is appealing to her? Maybe it really is a Katy Perry thing.
Anyway, she’s back.
Let’s answer the main question right out of the gate: the reason Taylor Swift brought her albums back onto Spotify and to platforms she’s overlooked in the past few years, like Amazon Music and Pandora Premium, isn’t because Katy Perry released Witness (although it may have something to do with the timing) or because Swift’s last album, 1989, sold 10 million copies (this is the official reasoning for the release) — it’s because of the new licensing deal between her distributor Universal Music Group and Spotify, and the realities of releasing music in 2017.
The new deal between UMG and Spotify allows for artists to choose to window new albums (or make them unavailable to free users) for up to two weeks after their initial release — a huge win for the label, and a sticking point for Swift. Streams from paid users pay far better than streams from ad-supported users on Spotify, and Swift is nothing if not fully in control of her content and her finances.
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/kcpY03qHLp
In 2014, the last time Taylor Swift released an album, people still bought albums. She pulled her catalog from Spotify the week 1989 was released, stating the service doesn’t pay artists fairly and doesn’t give them enough control over their content. “I'm not ing to contribute my life's work to an experiment that I don't feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music," Swift told Yahoo at the time.
The experiment isn’t an experiment anymore.
In 2016, streaming became the dominant revenue driver for the music industry — when 1989 was released, it made up 27 percent of the revenue. Spotify grew from 10 million paying customers in 2014 to 50 million this year. Swift can’t ignore that.
Even Adele, a notorious hater of streaming, admitted that she would eventually catch up with the times shortly after she released 25 at the end of 2015, despite holding the album off streaming services for seven months. “I know that streaming music is the future, but it’s not the only way to consume music,” Adele told Time back in 2015. With an older audience used to buying albums, Adele might be able to stand on this for another release. Swift doesn’t have that luxury.
Make no mistake, Swift is one of the shrewdest businesspeople in the music industry, and she  get every dollar she’s earned. But in 2017, keeping your catalog off streaming services won’t help you maximize your earning potential or appease your fans.
You could argue Swift won both of her corporate fights in the music industry. She got Apple Music to pay artists during its trial period, and Spotify agreed to a two week windowing period for new albums. (The latter had far less to do with Swift and more to do with Spotify trying to stay afloat as a company charging toward an IPO, but a win is a win.)
This is simply the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album. Thank you, Apple, for your change of heart.
While Spotify may have lost the initial battle, it didn’t lose the war, and frankly neither did Swift. This is a calculated armistice that allows both sides to retreat to their base and claim victory. 1989 is finally on the world’s largest streaming service, and Swift  get paid more and have more control over her content going forward.
The real winner here is the Swift fans and Spotify users, who can finally listen to the most popular artist in the US without hassle.
Don’t try to wrong a raven, not even once. It’s not going to forget and it’s probably going to shun you for a long time.
When it comes to animal personalities, there are dogs, which are loyal and usually love you no matter what. And on the other side are ravens, who are only too happy to remember what you look like and ostracize you,  according to a study published this week in the journal Animal Behavior. The researchers trained nine ravens by hand for the purpose of testing — or, really, taunting — them to see if these birds could tell fair from unfair. Spoiler alert: They can. They  bear a grudge, and this is what makes these bitter corvids birds after my own heart.
These nine ravens were raised in captivity, growing to become familiar with the researchers. Then came the test.
The ravens were put in a cage along with two trainers on each one. The first trainer gave the raven a piece of bread. The raven then carried the bread to the other trainer on the other side, and exchanged it for cheese.
The second time, the raven was soundly rejected. Instead of getting the cheese, it had to watch as the trainer just ate the cheese in front of it.
Two days later, the researcher rounded up up seven of the birds and presented them with three trainers: the fair one who gave them the bread, the unfair one who ate food in front of them, and a neutral one. Six out of seven birds chose the fair one. One chose the neutral one. Nobody wanted to play with the mean one.
One month later, they tested all nine birds. This time, seven chose the fair trainer and only one chose the unfair one. Study co-author Jorg Massen, a post-doc at the University of Vienna, told National Geographic that the ravens might be even less forgiving than this study suggests. He thinks they might remember for as long as two years, which is how long they’re capable of remembering who was in a cage with them.
In some ways, this finding isn’t terribly surprising since ravens are known for being very smart (they even hold funerals) and have a complex social structure. To succeed in any type of group interaction, you need to remember who’s good to you and who you need to plot revenge on. So be careful next time you’re walking in the park and want to throw a rock at a raven. We’ve long been warned what kind of damage birds can do.

Nintendo’s latest venture is something of a hybrid game. Called Arms, it stars a cast of near-future fighters with Slinkies for arms, who duel in stadium-like arenas packed with adoring crowds. It’s a fighting game, yes, but it’s not exactly a traditional one like Street Fighter or Tekken. At the same time, it’s  not as immediately intuitive in the way that boxing in Wii Sports was. It straddles the line between depth and accessibility, and that can make it unclear who the target audience of Arms actually is.
So who exactly is Arms for? Here are a few potential candidates.
Think of Arms as the fighting game equivalent of Mario Kart: a multiplayer game that just about anyone can pick up and have fun with right away. (Arms was actually developed by the same team behind the excellent Mario Kart 8.)
It’s simple enough to pick up and play, but complex enough to keep the interest of more experienced players. Arms features both one-on-one and two-on-two competitive play, and both are a blast. Even better: since it’s on Switch, it’s very easy to get a game of Arms going wherever you may be — provided you have an extra set of Joy-Con controllers laying around.
Related
The game’s default style of control is motion controls, which play out like a more advanced version of Wii Sports boxing. (Though you can  play with a standard controller if you want more precision.) To throw some punches, you swing your fists through the air with a Joy-Con controller in each hand.
Arms has a definite learning curve for those pursuing mastery. It takes some practice to get used to swinging your arms about while  jumping, blocking, and dodging. For me, it took a few matches before I felt comfortable leaping sideways, throwing an arm in one direction, and the other arm in another.
While it takes practice to get good at Arms, you don’t need to be especially great to hop in and have fun. This is especially true of the two-on-two mode, where a more experienced player can partner up with a newbie to even things out.
For all of its accessibility, part of what makes Arms so enjoyable is its freedom of movement. Take punches, for example. The distinct spring-like arms on each character don’t just let you punch an opponent who is far away, they  let you add a twist to your punch, almost as if you were tossing a curve ball. This lets you punch around obstacles in certain stages, or — if you’re particularly skilled — predict where your opponent is going and aim in that direction.
Things get even more complex when you factor in the differences between characters. Each of the 10 combatants has a distinct way of moving and special abilities that dramatically alters the way they fight. After playing for a week, I’m still not sure who I like best. Sometimes I prefer the speed and jumping ability of Ribbon Girl, other times Mechanica’s option to glide through the air on a rocket pack is what helps me win matches.
The possibilities get even deeper with the inclusion of character add-ons confusingly called arms. These are essentially different types of gloves you can equip your characters with, and they provide a range of different abilities. Some can freeze or blind your opponent, others fire laser beams. There are dozens to unlock, and figuring out the best combination of character and arms requires a good deal of practice and experimentation.
That said, for all of its depth, Arms is very different from most fighting games. It still requires fast reflexes and quick thinking, but there’s no memorization of complex combos or advanced control schemes to worry about.
A few months after launch, the Switch has a fairly solid line-up of games, from smaller gems like Tumbleseed and Puyo Puyo Tetris, to ports of big hits like Minecraft and Mario Kart 8. But even still, many Switch owners are looking for something new to play — particularly those who have managed to make it all the way through Breath of the Wild.
Arms is a great game, but depending on the kind of experience you’re looking for, it might not satisfy that post-Zelda itch. That’s especially true if you’re planning to play alone. As a single-player game, Arms is lacking. The main grand prix mode is a fine place to learn new characters and unlock content, but it’s not a satisfying story mode. There’s not enough meat or variety to make it interesting over multiple playthroughs. For me, it’s served primarily as a training ground.
Of course, this is true of most competitive games. Mario Kart gets pretty boring when you play by yourself. But Arms feels especially sparse, especially when you look at the upcoming Splatoon 2, which retains a multiplayer focus but adds in what looks to be a fairly robust single-player campaign as well. Arms is great with a friend — but there’s not much to it when you’re on your own.
Arms launches on Nintendo Switch on June 16th.
Apple CEO Tim Cook, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella plan to visit the White House this month, Bloomberg reports, for the first meeting of a Jared Kushner-led council that aims to “transform and modernize” government digital services. Alphabet Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt   attend the meeting of the American Technology Council on June 19th, according to Bloomberg, along with executives from IBM and Oracle.
President Donald Trump formed the American Technology Council by executive order on May 1st, tapping Kushner — his son-in-law and senior advisor — to lead it. Facebook has received an invitation to this month’s event, Bloomberg reports, though the company has not yet responded to it.
The meeting  come weeks after Cook, Nadella, and Google CEO Sundar Pichai  publicly criticized the Trump administration for its decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Silicon Valley executives have  been critical of Trump’s proposed travel ban on passengers from majority-Muslim countries; Apple, Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Microsoft were among the 97 companies that filed an amicus brief in opposition to the proposed travel ban in February.
Eleven companies have been invited to attend this month’s tech summit, according to Bloomberg. The summit  include a meeting of all the executives, followed by discussions around topics such as cloud computing and technology sales to the government.
Trump met with Silicon Valley leaders in December, prior to his inauguration. Among the topics reportedly discussed at the meeting were immigration, trade with China, and efforts to reduce government waste through data analysis.
Taylor Swift is making her albums available on all music streaming services tonight, including Spotify, Deezer, and Amazon Music, three years after she pulled her back catalog from Spotify. The pop star’s management team confirmed the news via Twitter, saying that the move to make Swift’s catalog available came in celebration of 1989 selling more than 10 million copies worldwide.
The albums — including 2012’s Red and breakout hit Fearless — were yanked from Spotify in 2014, ahead of the release of her latest album, 1989. Swift defended her decision, complaining that streaming services like Spotify didn’t compensate artists fairly. "All I can say is that music is changing so quickly, and the landscape of the music industry itself is changing so quickly, that everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment," she said in 2014. “I'm not ing to contribute my life's work to an experiment that I don't feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music."
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/kcpY03qHLp
Spotify’s free tier seemed to be Swift’s particular bugbear with the service, as she did decide to put her records on both Jay-Z’s Tidal and Apple Music.
Swift announced that she would be putting 1989 on Apple Music in 2015, a year after its release, marking a particularly big milestone for a service that was still a fledgling competitor to Spotify at the time. The star had initially voiced concerns about Apple’s free three-month trial, which under original terms, would withhold royalties for artists whose songs were played by non-paying customers. The company quickly made the decision to flip that deal and agreed to pay royalties to artists played by any user — perhaps due to one of pop’s biggest megastars threatening to withhold her million-selling album unless changes were made.
Now, however, Swift appears to have reconciled any problems she may have had with Spotify and other streaming services. It could be that the landscape has changed in the industry in the three years since she removed her albums, or it could simply be that she’s gearing up for a new album release and wants to ensure all potential fans can hear her old music. Either way, her entire back catalog  be available from midnight ET on your streaming service of choice.
Google-owner Alphabet Inc. has agreed to sell robotics firm Boston Dynamics to SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications and technology company. Terms of the deal remain undisclosed, but news of Alphabet’s intentions to sell Boston Dynamics first surfaced back in March 2016. That was roughly two years after Android co-founder Andy Rubin left Google, where he spearheaded a series of prominent robotics acquisitions, most prominently Boston Dynamics. That division, known internally as Replicant, was disbanded after Rubin’s departure, leaving the future of Boston Dynamics and the other robot companies in flux.
“We at Boston Dynamics are excited to be part of SoftBank’s bold vision and its position creating the next technology revolution, and we share SoftBank’s belief that advances in technology should be for the benefit of humanity,” said Marc Raibert, CEO and founder of Boston Dynamics, in a prepared statement. “We look forward to working with SoftBank in our mission to push the boundaries of what advanced robots can do and to create useful applications in a smarter and more connected world.”
That Alphabet has finally sold its most high-profile robotics subsidiary may signal an end to the company’s passing flirtation with the world of humanoid and industrial robots. Boston Dynamics, a 25-year-old company originally spun out of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has gained a worldwide reputation as a leader in robotics engineering for its development of bipedal and quadruped robots like Atlas and BigDog.
The company has received funding from the US government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and it pioneered techniques for helping robots maneuver real-world environments and adapt to complex changes in terrain. Its most recent development, shown off in a leaked video in February, is a jumping unit named Handle that combines both wheels and legs into a “nightmare-inducing robot” capable of advanced aerial maneuvers and obstacle avoidance.
Despite the steady march of Boston Dynamics’ robotics innovations, it appears Alphabet leadership didn’t quite know what it would ultimately do with the company. As part of an overall restructuring and cost-saving strategy set forth by Alphabet CFO Ruth Porat last year, the company has taken significant measures to slim down its experimental efforts and rein in its “moonshot” projects. Even prior to Porat’s hiring, it was clear Alphabet was at a bit of a loss with regard to its robotics ambitions. Astro Teller, the head of the company’s X lab, was the one who disbanded Replicant in 2014, before Google was restructured as Alphabet, according to Bloomberg.
As part of the SoftBank deal, Alphabet is  selling Schaft, a humanoid robotics company Google acquired as part of its Replicant buying spree back in 2013 and 2014. Schaft was spun out of the JSK Robotics Laboratory within the University of Tokyo, making it a sensible purchase for SoftBank. Despite its huge presence in the Japanese telecom market, thanks to its 2006 acquisition of Vodafone Japan, SoftBank is  a leader in robotics — the company makes the popular humanoid Pepper robot in partnership with Aldebaran Robotics.
“Today, there are many issues we still cannot solve by ourselves with human capabilities. Smart robotics are going to be a key driver of the next stage of the Information Revolution, and Marc and his team at Boston Dynamics are the clear technology leaders in advanced dynamic robots,” said SoftBank Group CEO Masayoshi Son, in a statement. “I am thrilled to welcome them to the SoftBank family and look forward to supporting them as they continue to advance the field of robotics and explore applications that can help make life easier, safer, and more fulfilling.”
Microsoft is releasing a new test version of Windows 10, build number 16215, today and there are a lot of changes on the way. If you’re a Windows Insider on the Fast Ring then it’s available immediately, for everyone else all of the new features  arrive in the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update later this year.
The first big change is a new look for the notification center (Action Center), which has been redesigned with separate sections for apps. It certainly looks a lot better, and groups notifications together in a more coherent way from devices, apps, and elsewhere.
You’ll now be able to pin your favorite websites to the taskbar in this latest Windows 10 update. Of course, once they’re pinned they’ll open in Microsoft’s Edge browser, but the pinned sites feature is returning after feedback from Windows 10 users. Microsoft is  improving the animations for new tabs in Edge, making things a little faster. Cortana   see some changes, with the ability for the digital assistant to prompt for reminders by scanning images (with your permission) for things like events. If you’ve taken a photo of a poster, Cortana can then create that reminder. Cortana  has a new lasso feature that lets stylus users circle content to create reminders for things like movies.
Perhaps the biggest changes Microsoft is focusing on are with Windows 10 stylus support. The handwriting panel has been overhauled with more gestures, better editing, emoji, and automatic handwriting detection. As you write with a pen words are automatically converted to text, and words  shift along so you can simply keep writing. You can  select text to edit it, and make corrections to converted text using ink gestures. You can strikethrough, scratch, join, or split with the gestures, and the handwriting panel  includes quick access to emoji and symbols. The handwriting panel  float by default now next to where you’re writing, and you can even use the stylus to scroll in apps and websites now. Microsoft has even added a “find my pen” option, that  show where you were with your device when you last used the pen.
Elsewhere, Microsoft is finally making it easy to insert emoji into emails or social media messages. A new winkey + period / semicolon keyboard shortcut  trigger a new emoji panel where you can pick the most appropriate emoji for your messages. Microsoft is  adding a new touch keyboard for Windows 10 desktop and tablet users, with prediction, emoji suggestions, one-handed input, and shape writing with your fingers or a stylus. Dictation has  been added to the keyboard, so you can dictate text or use it for basic editing commands. Dictation has been in Windows for years, but it’s encouraging to see Microsoft move this to an area that makes more sense.
Alongside these bigger changes there are some smaller tweaks to Windows 10 overall. A new copy link feature in the new share page makes it easy to share links, and there’s improved support for HDR monitors and the ability to easily switch between public and private for network connections. There’s a lot of other minor changes and fixes listed in Microsoft's huge blog post, and all  be welcomed by regular Windows 10 users. This is one of the bigger feature additions to Windows 10 preview builds for a few months now as Microsoft heads towards a September release for the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update.
It really feels like 2017 is the year of the drone. We got news that Drone Racing League is returning to ESPN in June, the DJI Spark wowed us as “the best starter drone on the market right now,” and there’s even a Kickstarter for a water-friendly drone from SwellPro that floats. Now, Voliro’s concept hexacopter is here — an acrobatic wonder drone that can stably fly in an array of arial configurations, thanks to individually tiltable axes.
An interdisciplinary team of 11 college students from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zürich) and Zurich University of the Arts (ZHdK), Voliro set forth with the goal of designing a hexacopter that could not only take on any aerial direction, but perform an air-to-wall transition with ease. It’s now been working on the project for nine months, documenting the progress along the way, and just debuted the final prototype via a demo video.
The video splits between the darkly elegant prototype, splashed with generous doses of dramatic fog, and more casual shots of a test room with a slightly different version that demonstrates the drone’s capabilities. The hexacopter dances in the air, exercises some intentional wobbles, slowly does a static flip, and pirouettes on a tilt. It’s incredibly impressive, even if it’s a distance from how Voliro envisions the final product.
While Voliro’s main selling point is those sweet, tiltable axes, it says the hexacopter   eventually have a center sphere (so it can roll omnidirectionally on the ground). The axes should  give it the ability to fly with aerial stability in any configuration with 12 degrees of freedom.
It remains to be seen if Voliro’s acrobatic drone  ever go to market, but in the meantime, it’s a ton of fun to watch.
One species of wart-encrusted octopus looks very much like another — which is why zoologists are taking a good, hard look at those warts: turns out, they could help scientists tell these exceptionally bumpy octopods apart.
Remotely operated vehicles ( known as ROVs) are giving scientists an unprecedented peek at deep sea creatures. That includes these warty octopuses — collectively grouped under the genus Graneledone. But because the species look so similar, it’s hard for scientists to say whether the one glimpsed through a submersible’s viewfinder is a known species, a new one, or a known one in an unusual spot.
That information makes a difference when it comes to figuring out which species need protection, and where — something that could become more urgent as climate change and human activity threatens creatures we don’t even have names for. And it’s why having a way to tell octopus species apart is a big deal. “That’s important because we’re doing a lot of visual work in the deep sea now,” says Mike Vecchione, a zoologist with Smithsonian who was not involved in the study. “Having characters that you can use from visual observations is really helpful.”
The work started when Janet Voight, a zoologist at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, saw warty octopuses in nature. “And suddenly it kind of occurred to me — I’m asking the question is this one species or two species, when in fact, I don’t know,” she says. “I’ve never seen another species.” So Voight and a student accumulated more than 70 (dead) museum specimens of one species that lives in the Northeast Pacific, called Graneledone pacifica, and another that lives in the North Atlantic — Graneledone verrucosa.
They discovered that G. pacifica is especially warty, with cartilaginous bumps stretching down its arms and covering its mantle — the muscular covering for the octopus’s organs. The warts stop in a line, right at the back edge. On G. verrucosa, the warts don’t extend quite as far down its arms, and they taper off towards the back of its mantle. So the density of bumps on the back of the mantle and the length they extend down the arms are good benchmarks for deciding whether a given octopus is G. pacifica or G. verrucosa, according to the paper Voight published in Marine Biology Research.
Granted, the two species are separated by a continent, making today’s study a proof-of-concept. The next step is to see if other species show clear wart differences too. If so, the wart-based ID method could be broadly applied to the entire genus. That would help us find out who else we’re sharing the Earth with. “The deep sea is the last frontier of our planet,” Voight told The Verge. “And we don’t even know what’s out there.”
A small comment from Head of Xbox Phil Spencer was the final bit of news necessary to convince me Microsoft’s Project Scorpio  be named Xbox 10 S, and it  serve as a Windows 10 gaming PC built for the living room. I know, that’s a big claim — and I don’t encourage anyone to gamble on it. But ahead of Microsoft’s E3 event on Sunday, I’d like to collect the evidence that Microsoft is eager to put a computer beneath your television.
First and foremost, Microsoft has been talking about the convergence of living room entertainment and Windows software since before the original Xbox existed. Its video game consoles have always been something of a Trojan horse. And with the company’s reveal for the Xbox One, that thinly concealed strategy went public. The notorious presentation largely overlooked games and favored lengthy explanations of HDMI-pass through, professional sports partnerships, and grand media plans.
Since then, the Xbox team has been on something of an apology tour, refocusing on games to win back the hearts of fans who felt betrayed. At the same time, Microsoft has slowly laid the foundation for Xbox One’s pseudo follow-up, Project Scorpio, building hype for the hardware over the past year by promising the most powerful console on the market. All of the messaging has been zeroed in on how Scorpio  play games better.
But I wonder if it   do something else — because playing the same games at 4K isn’t enough. At least, it’s not enough for a company like Microsoft that stands to gain from the potential of a powerful PC being right next to your couch. As a powerful living room PC, the Xbox could become more than just a game machine or streaming device. For college students, it’s a steal: the perfect and necessary computer (that just so happens to play games). For adults, it might be the center of a SmartHome. For kids,  it runs Minecraft and Word.
As a fully functional PC, Project Scorpio could be an Xbox, an Apple TV, and an Amazon Echo all rolled into one. Would Microsoft really pass up that opportunity?
When I profiled Microsoft in December of 2015, Spencer was already pushing the concept of a fluid ecosystem, in which games followed the player from one platform to the next: Xbox One, Windows 10 PC, a smartphone. Since then, Microsoft has launched Cross Play, allowing Xbox One owners to play new games on both console and Windows 10 PCs.
Spencer sits on the board of Windows 10, and he’s aggressively pushed to further blur the lines between Xbox One and Windows 10 PC. A fall 2015 system update integrated Windows 10 into the Xbox One. And an Xbox app on Windows 10, released around the same time, has brought game streaming, messaging, and chat features to the PC.
For those two roads, Project Scorpio seems like the natural merging point.
So why Xbox 10 S and why does a long runtime matter? Let’s start with the latter. Explaining a living room PC  take time. If the device does more than play games, Microsoft  need to explain how — and why we should care. And unlike its last reveal, it  need to  nail its video game announcements. We’re really looking at two press events mashed into one.
And the name, well, I think Microsoft may have given it away. This is from my colleague Tom Warren’s piece on hidden details in Microsoft’s E3 teasers:
In another teaser posted yesterday, there’s a "X10S101-317” message displayed on a stage with a crowd of people. Microsoft typically uses this type of date format for its Windows and Xbox software builds, so if you separate out the X10S to refer to the console, then the remaining 101317 could mean October 13th.
The naming convention would fit in with Windows 10 S, the newly announced OS. Windows 10 S only runs programs downloaded from the Windows Store, which would allow Microsoft considerable control of what can and can’t be put onto the console. And the naming convention would explain why Microsoft went with Xbox One S for its lead up console last fall.
Maybe I’m wrong. Maybe Microsoft has given up the dream of the living room PC. But that seems increasingly unlikely, the more you consider the evidence Microsoft itself has provided. Whatever the case, we’ll know for certain this Sunday during a press conference that  run extra long.
The Beijing Cyberspace Administration has shut down at least 60 celebrity gossip social media accounts, Reuters reports. The administration reportedly asked internet companies like Tencent and Baidu to crack down on accounts spreading gossip or rumors online.
According to Reuters, a post on the Beijing Cyberspace Administration’s social media account says websites must “adopt effective measures to keep in check the problems of the embellishment of private sex scandals of celebrities, the hyping of ostentatious celebrity spending and entertainment, and catering to the poor taste of the public.”
This is just the most recent move by the Chinese government and President Xi Jinping to suppress online discussion. Early last month, the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) announced a new set of regulations concerning what news publications can publish and share. Under these regulations, news companies need to acquire a government license and have editors approved by the government, according to the BBC.
In a meeting with the country’s biggest internet companies, the BCA reportedly said that a new cybersecurity law required websites “to not harm the reputation or privacy of individuals.” While the Chinese government has maintained that these regulations are security measures, critics say it’s not clear how they’ll be implemented and that they’re a move to limit free speech, according to The New York Times.
Reuters reports that many of the 60 accounts closed were duplicates.
Watchers on the Wall has been keeping an eye on the HBO schedule, and today, the site pulled out the episode lengths for the new season of Game of Thrones.
Most of them look like they’ll be ordinary lengths. Episodes one, two, and five are all 59 minutes — pretty long considering an “hour” of broadcast TV without the commercials is 43 minutes, but not unusual for prestige TV. Other episodes vary a bit: episode three is 63 minutes long, episode four is 50 minutes.
But the final two episodes qualify as short feature films. Episode six is 71 minutes long, and episode seven, the finale, is 81 minutes. That last installment  be the longest episode of Game of Thrones to date, though it’s still shorter than the 90-minute episodes of other HBO shows, like True Detective or Westworld. (Which were, in my opinion, boring. You can’t say that about Game of Thrones, even when it’s kind of bad.)
Last year’s Game of Thrones season finale was 68 minutes long, and in that time, a ridiculous number of things happened, including but not limited to:
Imagine what could happen if that episode had just been 13 minutes longer! I’m guessing there  be a lot of story events in the finale, many of them dramatic, exhilarating, and probably violent. And then we’ll have to stay up extra-late discussing them. You should consider requesting the following Monday off from work right now, if you know you don’t operate well on a funky sleep schedule.
Only 37 more days until this show is back! And then only seven weeks until the season is over again! And then maybe no more Game of Thrones until 2019! Maybe you could make the final episode last a full two years by watching only seven seconds per day.
The Al Jazeera news network is fending off a massive cyberattack, according to a statement today. The Qatari-owned news organization claims that its website and broader media network are currently “undergoing systematic and continual hacking attempts.”
The nature of today’s attack is still unclear, although one researcher observed the issues extending as far as US-based DNS servers, which could indicate a broader network failure. The network did not respond to a request for comment.
“These attempts are gaining intensity and taking various forms,” the company said in a statement. “However, the platforms have not been compromised.” The attackers  targeted Al Jazeera’s accounts on platforms like Twitter and Facebook, although there’s no indication any accounts were compromised.
The attack comes just weeks after a previous compromise at the Qatar News Agency, a separate news agency  owned by the Qatari government. That compromise involved a massive theft of data, ultimately triggering a diplomatic incident after fabricated remarks attributed to the Emir of Qatar were published alongside leaked data from the compromise.
In the wake of the incident, a number of neighboring countries cut off diplomatic ties to Qatar, and Al Jazeera itself has already been prohibited from broadcasting in Saudi Arabia and Jordan, among other countries. Reporters without Borders condemned the move, calling it “a political decision that amounts to censoring this TV broadcaster.”
Apple didn’t talk much about tvOS 11 during its Worldwide Developers Conference this week, yet it still released the developer beta. We’re slowly getting an idea of what to expect. 9to5Mac reports that AirPods  automatically pair with a user’s Apple TV. Previously, the earbuds only automatically paired with iPads, Macs, and Apple Watches that were associated with the same iCloud account.
So maybe with tvOS 11 you’ll be able to watch TV without needing a whole speaker setup or even dealing with manually pairing. How many people want to watch TV with their AirPods? I’m not sure, but Roku did add a headphone jack to its remote. Maybe that’s a sign.
tvOS  includes a new Home Screen Sync feature, which  keep your apps consistent across Apple TVs, and automated switching between dark and light mode. We  know it’ll support Amazon Prime Video.
The BlackBerry KeyOne officially made its way to the US a few days ago, but some customers who have bought TCL’s first BlackBerry-branded phone are encountering an unusual issue — the screen on the KeyOne doesn’t seem to actually be adhered to the rest of the phone.
The issue was first publicized by YouTube channel JerryRigEverything, which noted that the display on the KeyOne appears to just be snapped into place and lacks any more of adhesive or glue holding it in.
Additionally, there are already multiple reports on the CrackBerry fan forum of phones whose screens have popped off the front of the KeyOne entirely after small drops. It’s possible that the issue is simply a quality control problem affecting a small number of phones that just didn’t get glue for whatever reason. But short of warranty-voiding investigation into other devices to see how widespread the issue is, there’s no real way to know whether or not your KeyOnes has the same problem (at least, until your screen pops out, in which case it’s probably too late.) The Verge has reached out to TCL for clarification around this issue.
At a Chicago screening of the new post-apocalyptic horror film It Comes At Night, writer-director Trey Edward Shults revealed the film’s inspirations. Like his debut movie, 2015’s Krisha, It Comes At Night is a harrowing drama based on a crisis in Shults’ family: “It comes from my dad’s death,” Shults says. “I had a messy relationship with my dad… He battled addiction for a long time, I cut off our relationship, and after 10 years, I saw him on his deathbed, with pancreatic cancer, and he was so full of regret for the life he led. And I was just trying to help him find some peace. It was one of the most traumatic experiences of my life. I’ve never been that close to death.”
It Comes At Night isn’t openly about cancer, the way Krisha was openly about addiction. The film takes place largely around an isolated cabin in the woods, where Paul (Joel Edgerton), his wife Sarah (Carmen Ejogo), and their 17-year-old son Travis (Kelvin Harrison Jr.) have holed up after a virulent, grotesque plague started spreading in the cities and society began to disintegrate. Paul takes an aggressive hand toward keeping his family safe, and Travis meekly watches and obeys, but their lives change when a stranger breaks into their house and changes their family dynamic.  For Shults, the story was not just about fathers and sons, but about processing grief and exploring regret “and how fear tears us apart.”
Like Krisha, It Comes At Night is about the struggle between accepting and rejecting family members who behave badly. It’s  about tribalism, isolation, and paranoia. But in spite of the marketing, it isn’t about a monster that comes at night, unless you count humanity’s worst impulses as a monster. I sat down with Shults in Chicago to talk about the film’s racial dynamics — Paul is white, and his wife and son are black — and about apocalyptic movies, personal horror, and why Shults hopes mainstream viewers never pick up on the way editing, camera work, and aspect ratios can help tell a compelling story.
This interview has been edited for clarity and brevity.
Is there a recipe for the perfect film apocalypse?
Oh God! Honestly, I wouldn’t know. I don’t watch a lot of apocalyptic movies. What I’m more drawn to is the personal nature of this stuff, whether that’s Melancholia or Take Shelter, or even Children Of Men or something. I have no idea what the perfect concoction for that is at all. I feel totally out of my depth on that. But I love if that kind of material can stem from a personal place. That excites me.
In Children Of Men especially, you have no idea why people have stopped having children. They just have to deal with it.
You’re thrown into it, and you’re catching up.
And that feeds into some things you said last night, about how what interests you in horror isn’t the monster, or answering the audience’s questions. It’s about what stressful situations do to people.
People fascinate me, and dynamics between people fascinate me. Looking at one of my favorite horror movies, The Thing, I know everyone goes crazy about the monster effects and all of that. It’s dope, but to me, it’s even more exciting what that situation does to the people, what the fear and paranoia instills. I remember the first time I saw The Thing, I was really young. I didn’t quite know who Kurt Russell was. He has this big beard, and I didn’t get that he was sort of the hero. It was like everyone was evil and I couldn’t trust anyone. It was terrifying to me. That blood-test scene! So those dynamics just fascinate me, whether it’s a disease with people trapped in a house, or a relative coming home for Thanksgiving, or whatever. I love people! I’m  terrified of people! So they’re fascinating.
This movie is extremely cynical about people, and about human nature. Is that just an isolated case around this story, or is it your larger commentary on humanity?
It’s probably both. Even if the movie does feel cynical, I  hope you feel love in the movie, that you feel love amongst characters. With this particular film and where it stems from, with my dad — I’ve been reading books on genocide, and thinking about people and our time on this world. Thinking about families, and how they’re like their own tribes, and how people put their tribe first. I think there’s a lot in how we live, where family always comes first. And if we think that way in any circumstance, we’re just going to end up destroying ourselves. It’s inevitable. These cycles of violence keep happening, and they’re like warning signs that we ignore. That’s why I was fascinated with books on genocide, and how this stuff keeps happening. It’s my biggest fear. It terrifies me, so I’m fascinated by it.
The family dynamics in this film are intriguing, especially given the history you’re channeling here. The way Travis quietly watches and judges his father feels like a parallel for some of your feelings about your dad’s life choices. But you show up in the father, too, having to make decisions for someone who can’t judge his own situation. How direct are these metaphors for you?
That’s a great question, and honestly, it’s hard for me to judge. It’s really messy, because it all blurs together. First writing it, I wasn’t consciously like, “Oh, this is how my dad and I are, so I’m doing it this way!” It all just comes out. And then in hindsight, when you have to talk about it, now I certainly see how much it fits. Aspects of my biological dad are in Paul, but  my stepdad. They’re merged in Travis and their relationship, and even in the subtext of the fact that they don’t look like each other. Maybe they’re not even biological father and son. And then the men who ambush them in the woods — Paul takes a second to look at them, and I think they look like father and son. Little things like that are hints into the whole relationship here. I think there’s tension between them. There’s love, but  a tension, and different views on the world. All I know is, when I was writing, it was purely the characters. But then in hindsight, I started seeing where it all came from.
You’ve described yourself as a film-grammar nerd. Was there a point in the filmmaking where the relationships became more defined to you as you had to address how to handle framing and angles, and pick lenses and lighting?
That’s more of an intuitive thing. With this and Krisha, when I was writing, I would experience the scene like I hope an audience would. For me, it’s just always about getting down to “What’s the point of view of this scene?” The single most boring thing to me is just getting standard coverage, like, “Let’s get our wide, let’s get our singles.” Even if we just have a couple of scenes with two people talking at a table, we’re trying to do unconventional coverage, trying to hint at the subtext of the power dynamics going on. To me, that’s just fascinating. And it’s all together. It’s shot so you experience the scene how a character does, or the power dynamics between them.
Why were the different aspect ratios in the film so important to your story?
So the bulk of the movie is in 2.40:1, with spherical lenses. That’s our reality approach. What always interested me in the movie is, along the way, there are these nightmares. Film-grammar-wise, how do you play with that? You could go so many different routes. You could make a full nightmare, just announce it. But once again, taking it to the character, I want to experience it like Travis does. So our film grammar and how we shoot it doesn’t change, and the lighting doesn’t change. But we subtly use different lenses. We use anamorphic lenses for all the nightmares, and we subtly change aspect ratio, either through a fade, or slowly compressing. The bars at the top and bottom close in, and it goes from 2.40:1 to 2.75:1. And the climax is when reality has become a nightmare. The music side, the aspect ratio, and the lenses converge. Over a prolonged sequence, the bars are slowly closing in, getting more and more claustrophobic, until they’re stuck in 3.0:1 for the rest of the movie. We  go handheld as reality truly becomes nightmare, once a certain line has been crossed. We’re handheld, tight in, so it’s nauseous.
More and more filmmakers are playing with aspect ratio to manipulate the audience. Do you think mainstream audiences are coming to a place where they consciously notice these things?
No! And I hope they don’t catch on. We’re film nerds, so we’re going to notice it. It’s interesting, and fun to play with. But it excites me for the people who don’t notice it. When my mom or someone sees a movie, and they have no idea what it’s doing, but they feel it. In Krisha, every change we do is after a dark fade and a good beat. I remember at an Iceland festival, I talked to a lady who recommended her mom to go see the movie. And her mom called her afterward, crying. She was like “Mom, mom, what’s wrong?” “I just loved this movie, it broke my heart!” Which itself was amazing. But she was like, “It felt like I just went on the movie with this character, and the screen molded to her at times!” So she didn’t know why, but she felt it, and that’s the coolest thing to me.
And the same with this. To me, it’s not cool to be like, “Yeah, we’re geniuses! We’re doing aspect-ratio stuff!” That’s not interesting. But if you can subconsciously affect an audience like that, that’s the real power, and the real excitement behind it. A movie like Mommy, where [actor Antoine-Olivier Pilon] literally pushes the aspect-ratio bars away, I still think that’s great. It’s a beautiful moment. But you’ve got to be careful with that stuff. I assume audiences are picking up on it more, but the fun aspect is people who don’t know film grammar at all, and what that can do to them.
You said Night of the Living Dead is one of your major influences here. Did it have an influence on the racial casting?
Not in a — like, I don’t think this movie is about racism. It’s certainly not. But Night of the Living Dead is different. I can’t help but think about that movie because of the casting here, but I didn’t make those choices because of that.
George Romero  says he didn’t cast Duane Jones as his star specifically because he wanted a racial dynamic to the film. He says he was just the best actor available. But then you can’t escape how that casting changes the story dynamic and the optics.
Exactly! Well it’s so interesting that that’s how it came out, because it’s such a product of when it was made. And that ending haunts me like crazy. With this, too, there were a variety of factors. But you can’t help but look at it once it’s onscreen. You need to think about those optics, making a movie today. I think it’s irresponsible not to think about that. So of course that’s on my mind. But the big thing was, I just want great actors and great human beings, no matter the color of their skin. Past that, the movie is not about racism. I think it’s interesting to do post-racial casting, and have it be about the people. No matter their skin color, fear and paranoia and everything else still breaks these people apart, and that’s fascinating. This is a sloppy, messy answer. I’m sure race can’t help but be a part of it, but it was never like, “Oh, I’m going to have this mixed-race couple, and it’s going to be sooooo provocative!” I don’t think it changes the story, personally. I just think it’s interesting to not comment on that, and just let these people be these people.
You’ve  said you were inspired by John Carpenter and older horror in general, but at the same time, this feels of a piece with recent horror movies like The Witch, The Babadook, and Get Out, all these extremely personal visions that focus on the characters’ emotional experiences as much as on outside threats. What’s your feeling on how you fit into the current state of horror cinema?
I wrote this before I saw those movies, but I can’t help but see the parallel — I love those movies. What I’ve noticed is a trend, especially with The Babadook and The Witch — I know Robert [Eggers], who made The Witch. I love that guy. We met on a festival tour. These movies are personal horror stories, and that’s fascinating to me. Babadook too, in particular — just the emotional journey on that movie, and using that monster to create this grief — I really love that movie. I’m sure It Comes At Night falls in line with these films. You want to make your own thing and be unique, but I guess I’m a part of that trend now. It’s weird. But I love those movies.
Being aware of all these movies, how do you feel about where horror cinema is right now?
I think it’s really fascinating to consider: what are the monsters in each of these movies? Where is our world at right now? Horror films have always been a product of the environment they’re made in, and the times they’re made in. To me, that’s really fascinating and exciting. But I wrote this script years ago, before our world was where it is right now. Not that our world was perfect before, but the ideas then were more about how people keep doing this shit, and if we don’t start trying to change, I believe we’re going to destroy each other. I think this is a cautionary tale in ways like that.
There are so many mysteries in this film, particularly about what’s going on in the world, and about some key unresolved details. You leave them out of the film on purpose, but do you have answers for all those questions in your mind?
Totally. When the script spewed out of me, I experienced everything as the characters experienced it. I tried to keep that intact through everything else. When you make a movie, questions like this pop up a million times, and you confront them a lot. But it was always important to me to never be a step ahead of the characters. We’re never going to find something out unless they find it out. I know what happened before the first frame, and how they got to that moment, all the way to what happens later, and certain things that aren’t explained. But the exciting thing to me is treating storytelling through the characters’ point of view, and really living it. And that’s going to frustrate a lot of people.
Are you concerned about the film being marketed as a monster movie? Are you concerned about the frustration people might feel in the theater, when their expectations aren’t met?
Of course! Yeah, there are going to be people who want a monster to come at night. They’re not going to like this movie, and that’s fine. You never want to make something just to piss people off. That’s the last intention ever, especially when you put your heart and soul into something, and you believe it, and you care about it deeply. What I’ve come to, how I feel right now is, I think the movie is going to get out there, way more than something like Krisha did, more than the film could have in a different circumstance. And the important thing is that it reaches the people it’s meant to reach. Whether some love it or hate it, oh well. I just wanted it to reach people it’s meant to reach, so they can connect with it. I’ve seen movies I didn’t love the first time, and then they come back to me, and that’s interesting too. So I don’t know. It’s weird being on my side, seeing the marketing come together. It’s a bizarre thing to be on this side of the chair. It’s interesting. We’ll see.
The phrase “Uber is in hot water again” has become a bit meaningless over the last few months — and for good reason. The embattled ride-hailing company has been limping from crisis to crisis since the beginning of the year. But this latest controversy — in which a top Uber executive obtained the medical records of a rape victim in India — could be the most legally dangerous one yet.
According to a report in Recode yesterday, Eric Alexander, the president of Uber’s business in the Asia Pacific, obtained the medical records of a woman who in 2014 had been raped by an Uber driver in India. Alexander later shared those records with Uber CEO Travis Kalanick and Senior Vice President Emil Michael, and others. After Recode contacted Uber about Alexander’s actions, he was fired.
Uber is in the midst of a high-profile investigation into its workplace, after numerous employees alleged instances of sexual harassment and bias. Yesterday, 20 Uber employees were terminated as a result of that investigation, and dozens of other instances are still under review. But the revelation about the handling of a rape victim’s medical records has thrown new fuel on the fire. The Financial Times today advocated for the firing of Kalanick, arguing, “It’s time to face facts. Uber does not have an image problem, it has a chief executive problem.”
Sources told Recode and other outlets that Alexander was motivated by a belief that Ola, a leading ride-sharing company in India, was behind the incident to sabotage Uber. (Ola released a statement calling Uber “low on morality.”) But legal sources in India tell The Verge that unless Uber received the consent of the victim before obtaining her records, the company’s executives were likely in violation of India’s privacy laws. But that because those laws are sill evolving, it may take time for any civil or criminal prosecution to unfold. A lawyer for the victim told Bloomberg that an apology from Kalanick and Alexander was expected, but made no mention of pursuing legal consequences.
“In India, Uber did face a lot of flack in the manner this [case] was handled,” a legal source in India who asked to remain anonymous told The Verge. The source was referring to the outrage that confronted Uber as a result of this crime. Police in New Delhi considered charging Uber with a crime over the company’s lax standards around background checks for drivers. Ultimately, the driver who committed the rape was sentenced to life in prison. And Uber was banned from operating in New Delhi, a prohibition that was eventually lifted until June 2015.
“They may continue to face the heat should the lady press the charges real hard,” the source continued. “It may take time though to get to the bottom of this, as the privacy law is still being tested in India.”
In the US, this would be a violation of the victim’s privacy. But the law relating to the privacy in India are “slowly evolving through various court judgements,” the source said. Privacy rules as laid out by the Medical Council of India, which regulates the healthcare sector in that country, state that any person seeking anyone else’s medical records “must obtain written consent from such person before collecting or using such information and  inform the person about the intended use of such information.” (We’ve reached our the MCI for comment and  update this story when we hear back.)
So unless Alexander obtained written consent before obtaining the victim’s medical records, he could find himself in violation of India’s privacy law. And his decision to share those records with Kalanick, Michael, and others at Uber may have  crossed the line as well, according to the source. Even if Alexander had obtained her records lawfully, he would have been “strictly prohibited from further disclosing/transferring the information to any third party without the prior consent of the provider of the information,” the source said.
A spokesperson for Uber confirmed that Alexander is no longer with the company, but declined to comment on the matter concerning the handling of a rape victim’s medical records. She did note that the victim previously settled a lawsuit with Uber in excess of $1 million. But the Indian legal source noted that “criminal liability cannot be settled though like this.”
Phillip Bezanson, a white collar defense attorney who specializes in the types of investigations currently underway at Uber, said the revelations about Alexander and the medical records need to be weighed against the bigger picture of multiple investigations into Uber’s toxic culture and corporate practices.
“When the federal government, the Department of Justice, is investigating Uber for various things, they have to make an assessment about Uber under principles of prosecuting business organizations,” he said. “The organization’s culture is a significant component. Whether [the behavior is] strictly illegal or legal is relevant. Things can be legally inappropriate, unseemly, and distasteful, and still color a prosecutors’ view when seeking to resolve far-flung potential criminal investigations.”
Bezanson’s reference to “various things” under investigation isn’t a hypothetical. Uber is currently being probed by the Department of Justice for its use of a digital tool called Greyball which reportedly used to deceive government regulators and hide the number of cars available on its app from law enforcement. Bezanson said the handling of a rape victim’s medical records by top Uber executives “certainly... warrants deeper digging and understanding.”
Alexander’s handling of the victim’s records was among the 215 cases of harassment, bullying, and inappropriate conduct identified by two law firms — Perkins Coie and Covington & Burling — during their probe into Uber’s corporate culture. The Covington & Burling report, including recommendations into what Uber can do to right its wobbling ship, is expected to be released in some form next week. Whether that includes a recommendation that Uber employees refrain from accessing confidential medical records of their customers remains to be seen.




Chinese authorities announced today that a network of scammers extracted data from Apple databases and sold it to Chinese black market vendors, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal. This underground network consisted of dozens of employees of direct Apple suppliers and other firms Apple outsources work to, and the group gathered users’ names, phone numbers, Apple IDs, and other data and then sold it piecemeal for between 10 ($1.47) and 80 yuan ($11.78) per data point, for a total of 50 million yuan ($7.36 million). It’s unclear if the data gathered was only on Chinese Apple users, or if it included users elsewhere too.
It took Chinese authorities, working out of the southern Zhejiang province, months to build the case before arrests were carried out this past weekend across Zhejiang, as well  the Guangdong, Jiangsu, and Fujian provinces. The suspects in question worked in for companies with access to company databases and other tools containing sensitive customer information.
The sale of data in China is nothing new. The country is rife with marketplaces for illegally obtained information, either gleaned from corporate or government databases. However, due to the perception that owners Apple products are more affluent than those with lower-budget smartphones, hackers and other data theft specialists may specifically target iPhone users in an attempt to extort them or gain access to more sensitive data stored in the cloud.
Correction: An earlier version of this article mistakenly identified the suspects as official Apple employees in China. That is incorrect. The employees in question belong to Apple suppliers and companies Apple outsources work to.
Earlier this week Apple announced it  soon be rolling out peer-to-peer payments, effectively (bad pun alert) swiping at services from Square, PayPal-owned Venmo, and giant banks that already let you pay friends through mobile apps.
Apple is well-known for biding its time while it watches other companies enter a market, then coming in later with a product or service it thinks  somehow be better. The peer-to-peer payments service is no exception; the question is whether Apple’s  actually be better than the others.
The short answer is we really don’t know yet. I only saw glimpses of “Apple Pay Cash” at WWDC this week, and wasn’t able to pay a friend through iMessage myself. But I saw enough to make me think that Apple has a very distinct advantage with iMessage, even though it’s limited to iOS devices. At the same time, Apple still has some important feature and naming decisions to make before it officially rolls this out in the fall.
Apple’s peer-to-peer payments are technically a functionality of Apple Pay, but they’ll happen in iMessage. As with Square Cash, the balances you carry from your peer-to-peer exchanges  live on a “virtual card,” called Apple Pay Cash. That virtual card doesn’t live in iMessage. Instead, it appears to exist within Wallet, Apple’s other app for keeping track of credit and debit cards, loyalty cards, and boarding passes.
So: the payments exchange is a function of Apple Pay, you’ll exchange the money in iMessage, and the virtual balance  live on the Apple Pay Cash virtual card in Wallet. I can’t help but think this should be less confusing.
Maybe Apple should create its own payments and money-tracking app that offers passcode-protected access to your billing information, cards, iTunes purchase information, monthly cloud storage costs, the peer-to-peer option, and a log of your Pay Cash exchanges. Kind of like ... a bank app. Or maybe not; maybe creating a separate app for services that already work invisibly is a step backwards, and iOS users  be just fine paying in iMessage. But if Apple has a grander vision beyond the virtual balance customers  soon be keeping on their phones — which I think it does — then a bank-like app is one place to start.
Another element of Apple’s new payments option that’s missing right now is the ability to write a specific memo of what you paid people for. Venmo’s open social network for payments is well-known; many users like Venmo for this reason. Square Cash’s ledger is private, but you still have the ability to later go back and see that I paid “$10 for pizza” or “$25 for pet sitting.”
Currently there doesn’t appear to be anything in Apple Pay Cash that lets you do this, aside from the iMessage exchange that you’ll eventually forget, like “Hey can you pay me $10 for that pizza?” There  be a log of the money exchanged, but not what the exchange is for. I suspect this is for privacy reasons — Apple has stressed privacy more than almost any other tech company — but I still think there needs to be some sort of option for this.
The most obvious advantage for Apple in all of this, though, is iMessage, at least in the US. While there’s a very valid argument to be made that Venmo, Square Cash, and big bank apps  still be more useful because they work on both iOS and Android, Apple doesn’t have to worry about establishing a network for peer-to-peer payments. The network for payments already exists among iOS users: iMessage. It  be right there in the native messaging app, and the people you’re chatting with are probably the same people you’ll want to pay.
You could make the same argument for Facebook and its Messenger install base. You can  argue that Square has a little Square Cash app for iMessage already. But Apple Pay Cash  has the Apple brand behind it, which people give their payment information to the moment they sign up for an iTunes account or set up Apple Pay. If Apple’s on-stage promise of ridiculously easy peer-to-peer payments pans out in real life, than a lot of iPhone users may find themselves becoming “P2P” people without even having to download a separate app.
Some of the initial reactions to Apple’s suggested payments feature, one that  subtly suggest you pay up if your friend happens to iMessage you a dollar amount, was that this  be awkward or rude. But to me it does seem smart, because it’s utilizing the intelligence on the phone in a way that I haven’t seen any other payment apps do yet. Think word suggestions in your messages, but instead of prompting you to type words, it’s reminding you to pay friends back.
A lot of people are already familiar with mobile peer-to-peer payments, but there’s  still a lot of room for growth. According to Javelin Strategy and Research, the number of US mobile peer-to-peer users  grow from 69 million in 2015 to 126 million by 2020; by 2021, one in two consumers are expected be using P2P apps. And that’s just in the US. What’s more interesting about most current peer-to-peer payments services is that they actually don’t make money for the companies that offer them. So the value of them, at least for now, is luring people in to use other services from the same company.
We won’t know exactly how convenient payments in iMessage and the Apple Pay Cash card are until it launches in the fall, and we’ll have to compare it to existing apps then. But it  have to offer a level of simplicity that other services don’t — whether in iMessage or in other areas of the payments service.




Back in December, when Pandora first announced Premium, its all-you-can-stream music service, the company showed off a feature called AutoPlay — brought back to life from Rdio — that would keep the music going by creating a radio station based on what you were just listening to. But when Premium launched in March, AutoPlay had been held out of the initial release while the company fine tuned the product.
But now it’s ready, and available to all Premium users on iOS and Android starting today. AutoPlay  create a station based off the album or playlist you were just listening to, and users can give songs a thumbs up or down, which  further personalize the feature to your liking. The idea was good enough that Spotify released out the same feature earlier this year, months before Pandora Premium even rolled out.
Despite the delayed release of AutoPlay, Premium seems to be off to a decent start for the company. Pandora users who have tried Premium have increased their listening hours by 30 percent, the company says. Premium’s flagship “add similar songs” feature, which can create a tailored playlist for you on the fly, has shown a strong success rate, with users keeping 86 percent of the songs it recommends.
But with the first wave of trials coming to an end, Pandora’s task now moves from getting people onboard with the Premium trial to turning them into paying users. And that’s a challenge for even the biggest streaming services.
The AutoPlay feature is available as part of an update to Pandora Premium on iOS and Android today.
Wireless carriers are forever looking for another way to extract money from their customers. That's their business, after all. But all too often, it leads to an awful experience for consumers who are tricked into using crappy apps and — less often — crappy hardware.
For a few years, it’s been common for wireless carriers to try to convince you to buy a cheap, no-name Android tablet when you went in to buy a phone. Now, apparently, they're going to try to convince you to buy a not-at-all-cheap, no-name Android smartwatch.
Say hello to the Verizon Wear24, a generic Android Wear 2.0 smartwatch with LTE, an anodyne design, and not nearly enough going for it to justify the $349.99 asking price. It's absolutely, positively not worth the $299 price you pay by signing a two-year contract.
Verizon's Wear24 is a white-label gadget made by Quanta, a company you’ve probably never heard of, and one certainly not known anywhere in the watchmaking world. It's a relatively large watch, thanks to the LTE radio that lets you send texts and even make calls from your own phone number. It's not as large as some other Android Wear 2.0 watches, such as the LG Watch Sport, but it is still going to turn off anybody who doesn't already like big watches.
It's a bland-looking watch, with a non-removable rubber strap and a choice of three colors. I don't have a particular problem with a forgettable-looking smartwatch; for some, they're more utility than fashion accessory.
Despite its size, the Wear24 isn't chock-full of features you get on other large watches. It lacks a heart rate sensor and ambient light detector. It  lacks a rotating crown or bezel, so all your scrolling has to happen with swipes. It does have an NFC chip, but (sadly and unsurprisingly) Verizon has chosen not to support Android Pay on this watch.
I can say some nice things about the hardware, though. It's fast and responsive, and the screen is good looking even though you have to manually ratchet up the brightness to see it outdoors. The best thing about it is the battery life: even with LTE on, I was able to get a little more than a day out of it — which is more than the competing LG Watch Sport often gets.
The software is pretty much bog standard Android Wear 2.0, which is both good and bad. The number, breadth, and quality of the apps available to download directly on Android Wear 2.0 all still feel anemic. You can get the basics for the stuff you'd like on a smartwatch, but most people  end up just using the watchface and notification features.
You can make calls on it, but doing so with the onboard speaker is a pretty awful experience; you'll definitely want to pair some Bluetooth headphones to it. You can  send and receive texts, but Verizon encourages users to use its own Messaging app. Verizon's Messaging app is bad. It's  available on phones, and in theory it solves one of the problems with SMS by syncing them across devices like iMessage.
In practice, using Verizon's Messaging app on the watch means you have to use it on the phone if you don't want double text notifications. So I dutifully tried it again for the first time in years. As I wrote out my first text, Verizon automatically highlighted a word and turned it into a helpful link that it could monetize via ads. Nobody wants that, Verizon. Literally nobody.
Look, the Wear24 is a perfectly competent smartwatch. It nails basics like notifications, messaging, watchfaces, and more. It has better battery life than some of its competition. It is not a horrible product. It's just not as good as it should be for $349.99.
If you're savvy enough to avoid Verizon's crapware and need a watch with LTE, I could see myself recommending the Wear24 as a basic, no-frills option — but only if it came with a basic, no-frills price, which it does not. That’s a shame, because watches like this can be genuinely useful for some people. Not everybody carries their phone everywhere they go, and not just because they're out for a run. Some employers don't allow their employees to carry a phone with them, so this could be a good alternative.
The good thing about Android Wear is that it allows nearly anybody to quickly and easily make a smartwatch. It has meant that lots of traditional watch companies, like Fossil, can offer smart versions of their watches.
The bad thing about Android Wear is that it allows nearly anybody to quickly and easily make a smartwatch. It has meant that Verizon can throw these things on their store shelves where innocent consumers might see them and buy one.

I’m perfectly aware that everyone in the world has tuned in to watch former FBI director James Comey testify in front of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and that many of those people are tweeting about it. I am  aware that it is an important event and that I’ll have to read some considered analysis of it at some point as part of my responsibility as a citizen.
But here’s another thing I’m aware of: almost everyone is tweeting boring jokes, bad political commentary, or, for whatever reason, hastily made graphics with quotes from the testimony. Yeah, we’re all watching it right now! We heard him!
The only person tweeting anything that is helping me mildly enjoy this legal marathon — and the unpleasantness of looking at a nine-foot-tall projection of various US senators on the wall of a Brooklyn coffee shop — is former villain of MTV’s The Hills, Spencer Pratt. He is, in general, very good at tweeting, and today he is following his standard formula: twisting a major news event to be in some way about his personal reality TV career, which ended seven years ago, then getting bored and deciding it’s time for a burrito.
When reached for comment via Twitter DM and asked why he chose to live tweet the hearing, Pratt said “I love reality shows.”
Here are my favorite tweets:
I'm so jealous of comey with all these paps pic.twitter.com/JoVJPs4kXF
"Not a question I can answer in open settings" is my new go to
Is this a 21 minute show or 43min without commercials
Woooooaaaah don't be shading press like this braaahhdda
The producers gotta give this cast some more drinks
Mom just got a shout out
I wanna eat a burrito in a scif
I am  bored, and I want lunch. Spencer Pratt: voice of a generation.
Update June 8th, 12:23 PM ET: Updated to include comment from Pratt.
Everyone has that friend who claims they can distinguish between two drinks that, to everyone else, taste exactly the same. It’s hard to tell if they’re lying, but scientists have now created an artificial tongue that can actually do the same thing for whiskies — and this method could one day be helpful for drug safety.
It’s not just imagination: a lot of whiskies really are very similar, and the average person probably can’t tell one from another. For a study published today in the journal Chem, scientists tried to develop a way to distinguish whiskey at the chemical level. So, they created sensors that work just like the different taste receptors on a tongue, and used them to differentiate more than 30 different whiskies. This technique, unlike others, is useful because you can identify something using the original mixture, says co-author Uwe Bunz, an organic chemist at Germany’s Heidelberg University. Most of the time, you identify a mixture by separating its various parts by weight. You don’t need to do that here because you can just have the overall mixture interact with different solutions.
Our tongues have different receptors for different flavors — like sweet versus salty versus bitter. When you eat something, the molecules in the food interact with the different receptors to create the overall taste of a pickle, or Dijon mustard.
The research team’s sensors don’t look like a tongue, but they work the same way. It’s a series of tubes filled with a solution of different colors. All of them are fluorescent, meaning that they glow when you shine a blacklight on them. When you add a drop of whiskey, the chemicals in the whiskey interact with the solution to make it either more or less fluorescent.
Next, Bunz used a machine called a plate reader to measure exactly how much the whiskies changed the solution. From this, they found a unique pattern of intensities for each of the different whiskies. “You can even discriminate Irish whiskies from Scotch-blended, and single malt from double malt,” says Bunz.
The group has done the same thing with different white wines and, next up,  experiment with red wines. It’s not just about alcohol, though: in the future, this could be used to tell fake drugs apart from real ones.

Apple often makes make it near impossible to upgrade its computers, and its new iMac isn’t officially upgradeable, either. Whatever specs you buy it with is probably what you’re going to have until you buy a new one. But these new iMacs do have a few components you can swap out for something better — if you’re brave enough.
iFixit tore apart a new iMac and found that it has removable RAM and a modular CPU. This is the first iMac to have a modular CPU since 2012 and expandable memory since 2013. While iFixit is pretty psyched about these developments, it doesn’t mean these upgrades  be easy to accomplish for the average user. iFixit says the iMac is very difficult to take apart, and gives an overall low score for repairability, but at least it’s possible now. If you’re an enterprising and adventurous iMac user, you could theoretically take apart your $1,100 computer and make it better. Good luck, and check out that RAM:
Spotify has released a new personalized playlist called “Summer Rewind” that gives users a playlist of their favorite songs from the summers of years past. Spotify users who have been on the service for at least a year  get a collection of their most streamed “songs of the summer” from previous years.
Summer Rewind is the latest in a long line of personal playlists Spotify has rolled out over the past couple years. Those playlists, led by Discover Weekly, have kept Spotify users engaged despite the flurry of exclusives from Apple Music and Tidal, so it’s no surprise that Spotify would keep adding to its most heralded feature. Summer Rewind is available for Spotify users in 20 countries starting today.

Xiamoi’s new flagship Mi 6 phone launched in April with top-of-the-line specs, like the Snapdragon 835 processor, 6GB of RAM, a 5.15-inch display, and a 12-megapixel dual camera system. It  includes an 8-megapixel front-facing camera with an automatic beautifying filter and AI that’ll try to guess your gender and age. Why does it do this? I have no idea.
I tested the feature out this week, only to determine that it doesn’t work well. Shocker. I’m 26, but the camera thought I was 24, 27, 40, and 29 at one point. It  wavered between marking me as a female or male. (Again, why?) Apparently glasses aged me and made me look more manly. You can see the results in the photos below. I tried to give myself wrinkles, but that didn’t have much of an effect on the AI’s age and gender decision. It didn’t correctly guess my colleagues’ ages, either.
Phones that are created primarily for markets outside of the US often include superfluous camera features, like overt beauty filters and other selfie gimmicks, but including an age- and gender-guessing AI is a bizarre move.
Granted, other companies have built similar functionality. Amazon released a tool earlier this year that attempted to guess people’s ages, too, although it provides an age range as opposed to an exact number. Microsoft  launched an age-guessing website that failed miserably and subsequently went viral. At least in Amazon’s case, the goal was to give developers a tool for general object recognition and labeling for their products and services. I don’t see a legitimate reason for Xiaomi making its age guesses available to its users. I guess if it consistently told people they look younger than they are, however, then maybe that’d be a feature worth having.
Facebook is working with three organizations — UNICEF, the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and the World Food Programme — on a new maps initiative that aims to improve how communities are helped after disasters.
Called disaster maps, the resource uses “aggregated, de-identified” Facebook data to provide key information organizations said would be most helpful in improving how they respond and provide relief in the immediate hours after a crisis.
Three types of maps are available. Location-density maps show where people are physically located before, during, and after a crisis, and are compared to historical records (like population estimates). Movement maps show patterns of movement over a period of hours so organizations can better predict where to direct resources. Finally, Safety Check maps display where people check in safely following a disaster, showing where help may be needed.
This data could crucially change the way relief is provided in the immediate aftermath of a crisis. Dale Kunce, global lead for information communication technology and analytics for the American Red Cross, tells VOA News that after a disaster, “We might know where the house is, but we don't know where the people are. Our first reaction may be to go to where the devastation happened, but maybe most people are 10 miles away, staying with families when they reported they were safe. So the place to go may be where they are.”
In the past, disaster response professionals relied on Facebook Live and other video tools to gather immediate information to help inform how and where to allocate resources. On the user side, Facebook currently offers Community Help in conjunction with Safety Check, a feature that lets users find or offer food, shelter, transportation, and other forms of aid.
The company intends to roll out disaster maps for use by governments and additional organizations in the future, promising that “all applications  be reviewed carefully by people at Facebook, including those with local expertise.”
It’s clear that Facebook has a wealth of data on users who agree to use the service, and   while the announcement of sharing more user information can raise hackles for some, for now we have to take its word that the data is being shared as stated, and  help those at their most vulnerable.

Tidal and Sprint are releasing an exclusive film starring Mahershala Ali, Lupita Nyong’o, and Danny Glover called 4:44. Tidal aired an ad during the NBA finals revealing the project, which has been teased around the web through enigmatic ads.
Few other details have been provided about 4:44. The film is NC-17; the moody black-and-white trailer features Mahershala Ali wailing on a punching bag in a slow-mo training montage.
Excited to bring @Sprint customers exclusive content through our partnership with @TIDALHiFi - more news coming tomorrow!! pic.twitter.com/YIbZ4h5Zoq
At the Oscars earlier this year, Ali took home the award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in Moonlight.
The partnership with Sprint on the film is unsurprising, given the company bought a 33  percent stake in Tidal in January. At the time, Sprint said the deal would give its subscribers “unlimited access to exclusive artist content not available anywhere else.”


Scientists say that climate change is one of the most pressing issues of our time. But if you ask policy makers, you might hear them argue that combatting it is just too expensive a battle to fight. President Trump called the Paris climate accord a “self-inflicted major economic wound” when he announced that the US  back out of the agreement. He’s  proposed slashing the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by 31 percent. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said that funding efforts to curb rising global temperatures are “a waste of your money.”
But they are dangerously wrong. In fact, experts say that the economic costs of climate change are so massive that delayed action, or inaction, is the most expensive policy option out there.
OMB Director Mick Mulvaney on climate change: "We consider that to be a waste of your money" https://t.co/JaqaoOPfhZ
First, let’s get this out of the way: there is overwhelming evidence that climate change is real, and caused by carbon emissions. Scientifically, the debate’s over and this is our fault — no matter how much Scott Pruitt or Ryan Zinke try to duck responsibility on behalf of humankind.
Second, there are big chunks of the US economy that depend on the global temperature staying put — like the agriculture and fish industries, for example. All told, the agriculture and food sectors account for more than $750 billion dollars of the United States’ gross domestic product, according to an EPA report.
Physicist iam Happer loves to say that plants grow better when there are higher atmospheric levels of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, but that’s only one part of the picture. Most plants  have specific temperature and moisture ranges. And as global temperatures climb, severe droughts, extreme rain and snowfall, flooding, and heatwaves have already started to increase — making it a lot harder to grow crops no matter how much they love guzzling down that CO2.
We’ve started seeing some of the consequences of climate change on agriculture already, according to a government report: high temperatures in 2011 cost meat producers more than $1 billion dollars in what the EPA called “heat-related losses.” Unseasonably warm evenings in 2012 caused Michigan’s cherry crop to bud too early, causing $220 million in damage. California’s record-setting drought, which was exacerbated by global warming, cost the state’s agriculture sector $603 million and 4,700 jobs between 2015 and 2016. Unchecked climate change  hit farmers where it hurts.
Let’s talk coastal property, too, since we know how much time President Trump spends at Mar-a-Lago. Florida’s in big trouble because of the sea level rise, a consequence of the warming planet. By 2050, between $15 billion and $23 billion of property  be underwater in the state. By the end of the 21st century, that could climb to between $53 billion and $208 billion, according to The Risky Business Project’s Climate Risk Assessment. And that’s just in Florida. Nationwide, The Risky Business Project estimates that anywhere from $66 billion to $106 billion of coastal real estate is probably going to hard to enjoy without a snorkel by the year 2050.
This is bad for more than just Mar-a-Lago: massive coastal flooding could  have major ripple effects on the economy, according to a report by government-sponsored mortgage company Freddie Mac. Coastal businesses could relocate or simply go under, taking jobs with them. Lenders and mortgage insurers could  suffer huge losses because, the report says, “It is less likely that borrowers  continue to make mortgage payments if their homes are literally underwater.” It gets worse: “Non-economic losses may be substantial as some communities disappear or unravel. Social unrest may increase in the affected areas.”
Big picture: global warming could cause the global economy to plummet — leading to a 23 percent drop in gross domestic product per person by the year 2100, according to a 2015 study published in Nature. “We’re basically throwing away money by not addressing the issue," Marshall Burke, an assistant professor at Stanford University, told Time.
Even bankers agree — and they’re not known for being tree-huggers. A 2015 report published by Citigroup estimates that that climate change could cost the global economy between $2 trillion and $72 trillion between 2015 and 2060. Who else but a group of financial wonks could write something like this: “The cumulative losses to global GDP from climate change impacts (‘Inaction’) from 2015 to 2060 are estimated at $2 trillion to $72 trillion depending on the discount rate and scenario used. Lower discount rates encourage early action.”
The Department of Defense not only acknowledges climate change, but warns that it could exacerbate “poverty, social tensions, environmental degradation, ineffectual leadership and weak political institutions that threaten stability in a number of countries.” ProPublica recently obtained an unpublished testimony by Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who told the Senate Armed Services Committee, “Climate change can be a driver of instability and the Department of Defense must pay attention to potential adverse impacts generated by this phenomenon.”
One of the most frustrating parts of Mulvaney’s press conference is that he can just lob statements like fighting climate change is a “waste of money” out into the world — and people might believe it. But there are real experts out there, who spend time and money to collect data, analyze it, and publish their results before their conclusions might be somewhat accepted as something resembling fact.
Maybe politicians making claims about science they don’t understand should have to go through the scientific peer-review process — even Reviewer 2 wouldn’t let Mulvaney get away with this kind of wild talk:
We wish to thank Reviewer 2 for their insightful monograph and sincerely apologize for not having written the paper they wish they had.
The most painful part? Even the world’s best efforts to combat climate change might not be good enough. But waiting to start fighting global warming — or sitting out the fight altogether — is a bad deal for America’s future. Given President Trump’s claims about his business acumen, he, of all people, should see that.
Update June 8th 11:00AM ET: This article was originally published on March 16, 2017 and has been updated to include a video, and relevant current events.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated “from $66 billion to $106 billion of coastal real estate is probably going to hard to enjoy without a snorkel by the year 2100.” The correct date is 2050. We regret the error.
Former FBI director James Comey’s testimony in front of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is streaming live on Twitch News, from 10AM ET to 1PM ET. It’s a good option if you’re not in front of a TV or, like me, an uncomfortably enormous projection in a Brooklyn coffee shop.
Among other things, Comey is expected to testify that President Trump sought an inappropriate relationship between the FBI and the White House, and  be asked about the FBI’s investigation into former national security advisor Michael Flynn.
Today’s stream is another example of Twitch branching out from game streaming, following streams of the Democratic and Republican National Conventions last summer, and all 886 episodes of Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood last month.
Twitch product marketing manager Brian Petrocelli said in a press release, “When we live streamed the Republican and Democratic National Conventions on Twitch last year, followed by a broadcast from the White House, our community had the opportunity to engage in civic-minded content, while conversing with one another in chat. Because they enthusiastically embraced this interactive public service experiment, it inspired us to experiment further with a News channel dedicated to bi-partisan landmark events beginning with the Comey hearings.”
No offense, Brian, but the comments, just a few minutes into the proceedings, are already wild. Though, the stream seems to be running smoothly.
Though Apple didn't have much to say about HomeKit during its keynote presentation on Monday, it turns out the company's smart home system is seeing some very notable changes this year. The updates center on two things: making HomeKit more flexible for users, and making it much easier for developers to start building new products.
The second of those is arguably the bigger deal. Until now, anyone that wanted to create a HomeKit product had to join Apple's licensing program just to get started. That big hurdle is being removed, and Apple  now allow any registered developer to start building a HomeKit device. Forbes says that devs can even put something together using a Raspberry Pi or Arduino now.
There is one very big catch here: HomeKit devices built this way — without an official certification — won't be able to go up for sale. They're only meant for development or personal use.
Still, that'll allow hobbyists to build their own smart home gadgets that integrate with iOS, which is pretty cool. And it'll make it much easier for developers who are thinking about building a product with HomeKit to get started, which means we could see more companies building compatible devices.
Apple is  making one other big change to simplify development: it's no longer requiring that every HomeKit device contain a specific security chip. Instead, it'll allow companies to authenticate their devices entirely using software. Smart home devices out on that market that don’t already support HomeKit  even be able to use this method to add HomeKit support after iOS 11 launches this fall.
That should make life easier for HomeKit device manufacturers in general. HomeKit is mostly unique among smart home systems by requiring all devices to contain a specific chip, complicating hardware development. By allowing manufacturers to do it all through software, HomeKit should now be much easier to implement alongside compatibility with services like Alexa, SmartThings, and Wink.
This is meaningful for one other reason, too: that HomeKit authentication chip had a cost, and this software method doesn’t. While device manufacturers  still have to go through the full certification process if they want to sell anything, they won’t get charged by Apple along the way, which may have previously discouraged some companies from participating in HomeKit. It  means that Apple is giving up a source of revenue in order to spark a bigger ecosystem of devices.
On top of these updates to make building HomeKit devices easier, Apple is  expanding what HomeKit can do in ways that consumers  notice. It's adding two new categories of supported products, sprinklers and faucets, and it's adding a bunch of new ways to trigger actions at home.
One of the simpler updates, but a favorite of mine, is an enhancement to the sunrise and sunset triggers. Those can now be offset by some amount of time, so you could, for instance, have the lamps in your home turn on shortly before the sun goes down at night.
Apple is adding temperature triggers, too, so that events can be kicked off when the temperature goes above or below a certain point. And it's getting better at tracking when people are in the house. It'll now track specific people, instead of individual devices, and use that to better tell you when someone leaves or arrives home. In iOS 11, that'll allow HomeKit users to set things to happen when the last person leaves the house or when someone's arriving home to an empty house.
There   be a way to temporarily turn on certain devices. Apple gave the example of opening a door at night and having outside lights turn on for just a few minutes, instead of turning on and staying on as they’d have to currently.
This is all still pretty basic stuff, but it shows Apple continuing to chip away at low-lying smart home problems. And that’s steadily making these devices into much more useful ways to augment a home.
Correction June 8th, 1:14PM ET: Apple has clarified that the software authentication method  not include any sort of licensing fees. This story  initially stated that sunrise and sunset triggers were new; in fact, it’s only timing offsets that are new.
Microsoft is just days away from unveiling its Project Scorpio Xbox console to the world, but that doesn’t mean the company isn’t ready to remember when PC gaming was ever so simple. In an oddly timed YouTube ad, Microsoft has started advertising its modern Solitaire app that works with Xbox Live. The one-minute commercial is mostly designed to push Xbox Live, but with Solitaire as the focus.
Microsoft first introduced Solitaire in 1990 with Windows 3.0, and it was used widely as a great way to avoid doing real work on a computer or to cure office boredom. In the modern era, Microsoft has been forced to bring Solitaire to iOS and Android, alongside Windows 10. It’s not entirely clear why Microsoft feels the need to suddenly advertise Solitaire for Xbox Live, or why there’s a polar bear involved, but maybe it  all become clear on Sunday when the company outlines its plans for the future of its gaming platform.
If you asked the average American “Where is the theme park capital of the world?” they’d tell you Orlando, Florida. But friends, these people would be wrong. The theme park capital of the world is Japan, home to a variety of local parks, small and large. It  has a massive Disneyland that’s a mishmash of the best bits of other Disney theme parks, and DisneySea, an entirely original venue with rides designed for Japan’s adult population. With Japan hosting the Olympics in 2020, its theme parks are expanding even further. Universal Studios Japan, located in Osaka, is constructing Super Nintendo World, a new land inspired by Super Mario. Today, it has released the first teaser.
The final shot suggests a layout for the land. A Mushroom Kingdom entrance echoes the classic Disneyland castle design. The path through the park progresses like a classic Mario game, beginning with the grassy terrain, before moving to colorful boxes, giant mushroom pads, and ice blocks. The promenade culminates at Bowser’s castle.
As Kotaku notes, the teaser follows this week’s reveal of a Super Mario-themed stage at Universal Studios Japan.
Alongside the opening of Super Nintendo World at Universal Studios in 2020, Disney  be upgrading its Tokyo parks with lands inspired by Big Hero 6 and Beauty and the Beast. This three-year window (2017–2020) is something of a surge for theme parks. Disney opened its first Marvel ride and an Avatar-themed land this past month.
This week, it’s Apple’s turn to take over The Vergecast. Dieter, Jake, and Lauren just returned from WWDC (Nilay and Paul watched from afar), so the gang has a lot to talk about regarding the new products that were announced.
Nilay went on Lauren’s show Too Embarrassed to Ask, while Jake and Dieter joined Nilay and Paul for Vergecast.
Ben Popper  stops by the show to talk about DJI’s newest drone, the Spark.
There’s a whole lot more in between that, so listen to it all and you’ll get it all.
04:56 - Apple announces HomePod speaker to take on Sonos
32:14 - DJI Spark review with Ben Popper
47:22 - Apple announces new 10.5-inch iPad Pro
1:02:51 - Apple is launching an iOS ARKit for augmented reality apps
1:06:05 - iMac Pro introduced / macOS High Sierra
1:18:37 - watchOS 4 brings new Siri watchface, fitness coaching, and a new app-browsing UI
1:21:32 - Paul’s weekly segment “Gates-all-around, all around”
If you enjoyed this podcast, there’s kinda more you can listen to! There’s Ctrl-Walt-Delete which  be airing our final episode in the next week, and Verge Extras, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways. You might  want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts nowadays.
It’s a little hard to believe, but Pokémon Go has been out for almost a full year. To celebrate, Niantic Labs announced that it’s planning a number of in-game and in-person events.
The first big event, called the Solstice Event,  take place in the game. This  happen on June 13th, and it’ll include Fire-type and Ice-type pokémon, XP bonuses, and discounted Lucky Eggs. The team  announced that it’ll soon release a new update that focuses on collaborative gameplay which hints at a “new way” to play the game, but   temporarily close down in-game gyms for a short while.
Diehard players can  take part in the first in-person event in July: Pokémon Go Fest Chicago, which is scheduled for July 22nd, 2017. Tickets for the event  go on sale on June 19th. (Pricing and schedule are not currently available, so it’s unclear what  actually go down at the festival.) There are other events planned for Europe between July and September, too, while Japan  get an event called “Pikachu Outbreak” in Yokohama in August. More details on those events are forthcoming.
It’s not clear what the new collaborative gameplay update  be. It’s rumored that the company is giving the gyms a bit of an update to help combat cheating, and that it’s planning on introducing raids. Allowing players to team up or play against one another in the gyms feels like a logical step. Pokémon has always been an enormously collaborative franchise, and the emphasis for players to not only play against each other, but meet one another in the real world is something that’s been credited for making it the powerhouse that it is today.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War has a new story trailer that focuses less on showing off gameplay and more on setting the stage for the new chapter in Talion and Celebrimbor’s adventure.
Where the first game tried to position itself as a potential lost chapter of a story that could fit in the cracks between Tolkien’s existing books, Shadow of War seems to be throwing out a strict adherence to the canon in favor of tossing in everything but the kitchen sink. Which, by and large, feels like a good thing: it gives the game more room to tell its own story without feeling weighed down by the constraints of the existing canon.
It’s hard to get a handle on exactly what’s going on or who the major players are beyond Talion and Celebrimbor. But it seems that the duo have completed Talion’s goal from the last game and forged a new Ring of Power to challenge Sauron’s rule. Sauron, in turn, seems to be sending the Ringwraiths to take the new ring from Talion, who is, similar to the last game, is raising an army to try and take Mordor back from under Sauron’s rule.
“Nothing  be forgotten,” the trailer intones at one point, and it seems that Shadow of War is taking that serious, with almost no corner of Tolkien’s world being left untouched. There’s hordes of orcs, the Nazgûl, the Army of the Dead, drakes, the One Ring, Sauron, a Palantír, some kind of giant tree woman, a mysterious dark-haired woman, soldiers of Gondor (one can do magic?), giant spiders, and what appears to be a fiery Balrog covered in armor.
Shadow of War is the upcoming sequel to 2014’s Shadow of Mordor. It sees the expanded return of the first game’s critically lauded Nemesis system, where enemies you battle  return throughout the game for a constantly changing, unique experience where the actions you take can come back to quite literally haunt you. An early look at gameplay released back in March gave a good first look at how some of that  play out, along with the new fortress mechanic that looks to be a central part of the game.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War launches October 10th on PS4, Xbox One, and PC.
Earlier this year, Dish introduced a new feature that let customers control their DVR using Amazon’s Alexa. That meant being able to search for specific shows and load up apps like Netflix, all by using voice commands via an Echo or Echo Dot. Now, Amazon is offering up the same back-end functionality to all developers. Meaning — hopefully — that a lot more cable companies  add support for Alexa voice control in the future.
Per Amazon’s blog post: “Companies can now teach Alexa how to interface with their video content and services. This means you can now build experiences that allow your customers to easily find and consume video content without invoking a specific skill. For example, a customer could say, ‘Alexa, play Manchester by the Sea’ without specifying a provider or device. Through the Video Skill API, Alexa is aware of video devices and services your customer has or subscribes to.”
It’s potentially a very handy service, and offering skills like this shows why Amazon is ahead in the race to create the most functional digital home assistant. However, not many developers have taken the company up on the offer yet — just Dish in the US, and YouView and Netgem in the UK. Though only a few services have added Alexa integration, there doesn’t seem to be any reason why Netflix, Hulu, or other popular services could add it as well, so this might get more interesting in the future.
My first reaction to Apple's WWDC announcement of iOS drag and drop was basically, "Lol welcome to three decades ago." But after watching a more in-depth technical explanation of the technology at Apple's follow-up Platforms State of the Union, I'm starting to wonder if Apple has a new “pinch to zoom” on its hands: a technology that doesn't just allow for multitouch devices to compete with point-and-click desktop experiences, but in a way, it surpasses them.
iOS’s drag and drop from a user’s perspective is fairly simple. You press and hold on an object, and it's pinned to your finger. Then you drag the item to wherever you want it to go, and release. On an iPhone, your drop destination is limited to elsewhere in the same app, but on the iPad you can drag an item down to the new universal dock in iOS 11, jump to the app switcher view and switch apps, or hover over an app that's already open in splitscreen, all while holding on to your original selection.
What makes iOS drag and drop special is that you can grab multiple things at once, and they don't all have to be within a convenient marquee selection range. You can keep hold of the first object; navigate elsewhere in the app; grab something else, which is then added to the "stack" of stuff under your finger; and keep adding until you're satisfied. On a desktop it's possible to select non-contiguous items for drag and drop with shift click or control click, but I'm unaware of a system for grabbing onto multiple items from multiple views outside of fancy clipboard hacks.
When you’re dragging something around on iOS, multitouch means you can still fully interact with the rest of the OS. On a desktop, once you’re holding something with the cursor, you’re limited to what you can hover over for a drop target and what keyboard commands can marshal.
One demo Apple provided is on the familiar iOS home screen. It’s been rebuilt with the drag-and-drop API, and that means you can grab an app, swipe to another screen, grab a few more apps, and then drop them all at once into a folder. A huge win over the one-at-a-time limitation that’s always been present on iOS.
According to Apple’s documentation, you can actually have multiple of these drag activities going on at once. “As many as the user’s fingers can handle,” is the official spec, which sounds bonkers.
Multi-grab makes iOS drag and drop stand out, but it's Apple's APIs that could make it even more powerful. It's all thanks to the blessing and curse of iOS: Apple's stranglehold control on how apps talk to each other in the operating system. To make an item available for drag and drop, developers have to implement a specific API from Apple, which allows them to specify thumbnails, metadata, and the exact data payload. When a user hovers an item or a collection of items over another app, that app can see the metadata, but not the actual payload, for security reasons. But the ability to use metadata hints and arbitrary data formats in a drag-and-drop interaction could unlock really interesting new inter-app workflows and interactions.
For instance, dragging a location from Maps includes a detailed thumbnail preview, which  show up when you drop that location into an app that supports images — like Notes, for instance. That sort of “expansion” is a common feature in apps like Messages or Slack, but now it’s baked into a very basic part of the UI.
Adobe gave a demonstration where a presenter selected a few color samples and a brush from the company’s Capture app and placed them into Photoshop Sketch, all in one drag-and-drop operation. The presenter then grabbed multiple layers from Sketch and placed them into Photoshop Mix. In Mix you can even target a location on the canvas for the assets to land, or place them in the layer stack.
Any app that implements the standard text controls of iOS gets basic drag and drop for free, and other Apple-built UI tech, like table views,  work well with drag and drop out of the gate. But if developers embrace the extended opportunities here, we could see apps with more complicated data types talk to each in really novel new ways.
Maybe you could drag a video file from an editing app into an app that only accepts images and get the video's thumbnail, or drop it into an audio app and extract the audio. Or drag a file from Dropbox and drop it as a URL in an app that doesn't support that kind of file. Apple has already shown interoperability between data-rich Calendar items and Reminders. Obviously, Adobe is using custom layer and brush data formats to make it easier to jump between its own iOS apps, but conceivably any other design app could implement support for these data types.
Maybe I’m overhyping this. So much is left up to developers that rich drag-and-drop actions could be too rare to matter. For this to work, you need a lot of apps to speak a common language, and Apple is only specifying a format for very generic assets. But if it goes well, I can now imagine a world where better drag and drop is a reason to pick iOS over macOS for complicated, multi-app workflows. Is that crazy to say out loud?
When Apple announced HomePod at WWDC, I was thrown for a loop. After months of rumors, the Cupertino company was expected to launch some sort of Siri-focused speaker that would serve as the vanguard in an effort to elevate the digital assistant to a viable competitor for Alexa, Assistant, and Cortana.
Instead, Apple zigged when it was expected to zag — launching HomePod with a focus on music. As Apple put it onstage, its goal is nothing less than building a speaker that  "reinvent home music" in the same way that the iPod did for portable music so many years ago.
Much of Apple's presentation was centered around this music-first approach, highlighting things like beamforming audio designed to tune music to the space the speaker is in. The fact that HomePod includes Siri support for home assistant queries like unit conversion, news, weather, traffic, sports, reminders, and timers almost seemed like an afterthought, as did the fact that it serves as a hub for controlling HomeKit-powered smart home devices.
That leaves HomePod in a weird place. On paper, it combines the great audio and multi-room music of a Sonos speaker with the smarts of an Amazon Echo or Google Home. But, while the HomePod may be able to do both of those things, Apple’s speaker is shaping up to be a jack-of-all-trades compromise that ultimately is a master of none.
Put simply: in its current state, HomePod is not competitive with Alexa or the Google Assistant. Siri, as a digital assistant, lacks the intelligence or functionality that its competitors have to offer. Siri is already considered to be one of the worst digital assistants when it comes to answering basic queries, and whether or not that's the case, Apple has taken the puzzling approach of limiting Siri on HomePod to even less than what iOS can do.
It's no surprise that Apple has chosen to put music as the primary sell for HomePod, because without an actual serious investment in building out Siri as a platform — which Apple seems reticent to do — there's no way it can win from the home assistant angle.
Amazon and Google are ing to throw caution to the wind and let users put whatever they want on their Echo and Home. There are thousands of Alexa skills available for the Echo, allowing you to do everything from getting news, to checking your bank account balance, to playing Jeopardy. Google showed off Google Assistant ordering sandwiches at Panera through voice commands, and a multi-platform vision where a Chromecast works in tandem as an external display with a Google Home for visual results.
HomePod, on the other hand, limits you to the same Siri integrations that Apple has always had. Sure, there are a few new tricks when it comes to musical queries, but that's a drop in a bucket compared to the limitless sea of potential that Amazon and Google are opening up. And even putting intelligence aside, Siri is still at a disadvantage when it comes to the basic task of voice recognition, another key part of the equation that Apple largely ignored at WWDC.
Related
It's especially frustrating because Apple had a huge opportunity with Siri here that it could have taken advantage of. Apple has already built the template, too, with things like the Apple Watch and iMessage applications. Why isn't there a HomePod app, where developers can build out extensions to the apps you already have on your iPhone and activate them on your HomePod? Why can’t HomePod link to your iPhone to make FaceTime audio and phone calls, like Apple already has with the Mac?
Apple could have done what it did with the Apple Watch and leveraged its massive advantage in developer community, services, and deep, OS-level integration to turn the Amazon Echo into the Pebble of smart home speaker hubs. HomePod is great for HomeKit, serving as a payoff for anyone who's been investing in Apple's approved smart home gear, allowing hardware developers to deeply tie their products to Siri. Why can't software developers do the same?
As for Apple's narrative that the HomePod is a smart speaker first and a digital assistant second, it's playing catch-up to more established speaker companies that have had time to build out a more mature lineup of hardware. Much like with Siri, Apple is just simply doing less than its competitors here. Sonos offers support for almost every music streaming service under the sun, along with a larger ecosystem with multiple speakers at various sizes and price points (including the ability to add non-Sonos speakers to the network).
HomePod, on the other hand, supports Apple Music, full stop, plus whatever you can stream from an iPhone over AirPlay 2. Multi-room support is limited to more $350 HomePods, or whatever AirPlay 2 speakers get released, but there doesn't seem to be a plan for a Google Chromecast Audio or even an AirPort Extreme type of a solution to add AirPlay 2 to older speakers. Plus, as a single wireless speaker, HomePod is more expensive than any comparable product on the market, including Sonos, a company that has almost always been synonymous with pricey hardware.
The HomePod is a distillation of Apple’s approach to technology, seen in everything from iOS to Siri. It’s a “set it and forget it” product — you plug it in, and Apple’s algorithms, microphones, and APIs do the rest, tuning the sound and configuring things for you. It’s a lot like iOS, where Apple blocks users from more advanced settings like changing default applications or accessing a root file system, since the goal is to be easy to use for all users.
In many ways, the fact that HomePod has these limitations is right in line with what you'd expect from an Apple-built combination of an Echo and a Sonos. That Apple has new hardware with limited third-party development support and is exclusive to Apple's own services isn't really that surprising. Siri on iOS only got third-party extensions a year ago, and developer options there are still extremely limited in what Apple  allow devs to build, despite the fact that Siri beat almost every other digital assistant to market. Similarly, if Apple won't allow you to select a different default music app on your iPhone, why would a Siri speaker be any different?
There is still a lot we don’t know about HomePod. We’re still months away from the planned December release date, and there’s a huge amount that could change between now and then. Apple could be saving an overhauled Siri to accompany an iPhone announcement, for example, or have additional HomePod products in new form factors planned for farther down the line. Price is  presumably able to change, and a $200 HomePod could be a very different proposition than a $350 one.
Right now it looks like the only way the HomePod makes sense is if you're so deeply entrenched in Apple Music and the iOS ecosystem that Apple's services are already the only ones you use. Given that there are millions of people for whom that situation is already the case, it’s likely the HomePod  be a successful product for Apple. It’s a play that Apple has already run with great success so far with the Apple Watch, which was able to leverage the integration with Apple’s existing hardware and software to remain one of the last viable smartwatches standing.
But the Apple Watch  showed that a tight integration with Apple’s other products isn’t quite enough — no one views the Watch as a revolutionary device that changes the way we live, like the iPhone or the iPod were. And given the tremendous potential there seems to be in smart speakers, it’s still disappointing that Apple is playing it safe with the HomePod instead of taking a chance to make something greater.
In most people’s minds, the dedicated portable media player has been consigned to the category of extinction, slotted in somewhere between the woolly mammoth and the saber-toothed cat. The smartphone reduced the Walkman to the size of an app, and only dedicated audiophiles bother to carry a physical device just for music anymore. Except something peculiar has happened recently: smartphone makers have reverted to selling phones without headphone jacks, so all of a sudden there’s a fresh opportunity for PMPs to make a comeback.
And what a comeback this is.
When I first heard about the Astell & Kern Kann, I guffawed at its size and price. This inch-thick slab of aluminum weighs in at 9.8 ounces (278g) and costs an eye-watering $999. In all honesty, I only called it in for review because of how ridiculous it seemed. The Kann has two of everything: two headphone jacks, two line-out ports, two memory card slots, and two USB ports. It's designed to provide more than anyone would need at any one time, and that includes the enormous 6,200mAh battery.
But here's the eyebrow-raising conclusion I've come to after using the Kann for more than a month: it all makes sense. There's nothing excessive about this device, not even its price, and it's all because of the way it actually works. The A&K Kann is the very definition of function-first design.
Astell & Kern Kann specs
4-inch WVGA (800 x 480) display
64GB of built-in storage, expandable via MicroSD and full-size SD cards
WAV, FLAC, WMA, MP3, OGG, APE, AAC, ALAC, AIFF, DFF, DSF, PCM, DSD
802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0, AptX HD support
AKM AK4490 digital-to-analog converter
6,200mAh battery
USB-C and MicroUSB ports
3.5mm and 2.5mm balanced headphone and line outputs
The primary advantage of the Kann, relative to any other portable music device, is that it sounds utterly sensational. I have heard Sony's gold-plated $3,200 Walkman, Neil Young's Pono Player, and Astell & Kern's own AK Jr. and AK100 II players, and not one of them has impressed me as much as the Kann. Even audiophile-grade equipment like the Chord Mojo and the desktop-bound Schiit Jotunheim that I have at home doesn't sound as musical and gorgeously melodic as the Kann. I'd go so far as to say that the Kann is the best music playback device I have — others might be purer or even more precise in their audio reproduction, but none of them upgrade the listening experience in such an instantly recognizable way. The Kann stands alone.
My standard for any audio equipment that makes claims of superior sound quality is that the superiority has to be obvious. Don't tell me to sit in the absolute center of my sound-dampened, specially rearranged living room just to get a sense of your exemplary speakers' performance. For the lofty prices usually asked, audiophile equipment should be obviously better. That's why I test primarily with 320kbps MP3 files and don't chase around for uncompressed versions of my favorite songs. The Kann can play the latter just fine, and it supports uncompressed streaming from Tidal, but I wanted to see it show a marked differences with just MP3s, and it totally delivered.
The first album I listened to on the Kann was Led Zeppelin's II, with Audio-Technica's nicely detailed MSR7 headphones serving up the tunes. It was a staggering performance, with all the explicit sexuality of "Squeeze me baby, 'till the juice runs down my leg" coming across in Robert Plant's rasping vocals. I could differentiate between deliberately distorted guitar and the occasions when Jimmy Page was more careful and precise in his strumming. But more than anything, it was the soundstage of the Kann that blew me away. It was like opening up an accordion: all of a sudden, the music I'd heard many times before was presented on a far wider and more luxurious stage, with air between each instrument and the vocals, and ample room to let me pick out minute details and acoustic cues.
My happy experience with the legendary rockers and the good but not exceptional MSR7s was only reaffirmed and amplified by expanding into other genres and other sets of headphones. When I stepped up to the Beyerdynamic Xelento in-ears, which are themselves priced at $999, it all got too much for me. I literally didn't want to move from my seat, even though this is an obviously portable music combo, because I was so transfixed by the music the Xelento and Kann were producing together. Feed Me's A Giant Warrior Descends on Tokyo EP is one of my favored ways for testing the bass on any pair of headphones, and it was just perfect. Nine Inch Nails' Pretty Hate Machine sounds so good through the Kann-Xelento pairing that I no longer want to hear it any other way.
So yes, the Kann scales up in quality if you plug higher-end gear into it, but I found it superb even with the more affordable Shure SE535 in-ears and Oppo PM3 over-ear headphones. With the PM3s, I loved the natural instrumentation of Nitin Sawhney's Displacing the Priest, which definitely benefited from the Kann's expanded soundstage and seemingly boundless dynamic range. The vocals were perfectly delineated from the hand drumming and other background instruments, and the beatboxing felt organic.
The Kann just does wonders with music, and I say this having never previously been wowed by any standalone music player. They all sound good, but the Kann sounds essential. If I want to hear a pair of headphones at its best, I now reach for this silver brick first. The Kann's  versatile and can be used as a digital-to-analog converter and headphone amp plugged into a PC or Mac — I rate its performance as highly as that of a desktop amp, but it just happens to be easily portable too.
I could stop with its world-beating sound, but the Kann has other good things going for it. This player's ratcheted volume dial is a tactile delight, clicking with a mechanical noise that makes it feel like unlocking a combination lock. Yeah, I know, it seems like an unimportant little thing, but I've handed the Kann to dozens of people and they've all wanted to have that dial in their lives in some form. It's a built-in ASMR trigger (or perhaps the sophisticated audiophile's fidget spinner). One smartphone designer I spoke to expressed deep frustration at the constraints of his trade preventing him from putting something as mechanically pleasing as the Kann's jog dial in his designs.
 awesome: the Kann's battery life. It lasted me a full working week in the Bay Area while covering Google I/O last month, and it still had enough juice to cover my six-hour flight to New York on the Saturday. A major problem holding back other good-sounding PMPs in the Kann's vicinity is that they try to be slim and run out of battery too quickly. The Kann is fat, but it's fat for a good reason. Plus, having a USB-C data and power port means I can always top it up with the same charger I use for my phone and laptop (the MicroUSB connector is for audio only).
Finally, the durability of this music player is beyond reproach. I accidentally dropped the Kann onto hard concrete from waist height (which still makes me cringe when I think about it), and only the plastic bottom picked up minor lacerations. The aluminum case shrugged off the entire thing, which is probably owing to just how much aluminum there is. Almost no expense has been spared.
Almost.
The Kann may be an exceptional new breed of PMP, but it still carries on some of the old family traits. First and most obvious is the screen, which is a 4-incher with WVGA resolution (800 x 480) and decidedly sub-par performance. It washes out easily and looks sinfully ugly sat next to a modern AMOLED display like that on the Google Pixel or Samsung Galaxy S8. I consider this forgivable, especially knowing that audio companies work in such small production batches that they can't get the same economies of scale that a smartphone maker might. , the Kann only plays music, so in all honesty I'd have been happy even if it had a screen half the size.
What I'm not happy about is the Android-based UI on the Kann. It's reasonably streamlined, but it's awfully laggy. So I don't have to jump around too much to find my music, but the few jumps I do make invariably test my patience. Loading my album overview shows me placeholder icons for a solid three or four seconds before I see album art. Going into any album does the same thing with the art for each track. It's not good. And yet, I forgive that too, because when the music gets going and the Kann slides into my pocket, none of this visual stuff matters one bit.
Astell & Kern is the luxury sub-brand of iRiver, a Korean company that's been making MP3 players since before the iPod even existed. It's a brand that has a flagship $2,999 PMP, the AK380, and an enthusiast audience that helps it sustain such products. The portable music player hasn't gone extinct precisely because of that enthusiast community, but this new Kann model from A&K signifies something new. It has much of the AK380 greatness, including the same AK4490 converter chip, but in a more integrated and affordable package. No, it's still not a device for everyone, and I'd struggle to recommend buying this if you're in need of more practical things like a new laptop or phone, but as an indulgence or a gift, I can't think of anything better. And hey, a dedicated music player is more justifiable today, with the headphone jack-deprived iPhone 7 and HTC U11, than it has been in many years.
More than anything, the Astell & Kern Kann is a piece of technology that makes people happy. You'll be amused by how its trapezoid shape overflows your grip, you'll be happy ratcheting up its volume dial, and you'll be downright delighted by the music it makes.
Magnificent, musical sound
Huge battery
Excellent build quality and durability
Flexible expandability and connectivity
Heavy and bulky
Laggy Android UI
Washed-out screen
Honda has been one of the more cautious automakers when it comes to self-driving cars, and a recent study put the company at 15th out of 18 in terms of overall advancement. At a media event this week, however, Honda shared more about its plans and set a target of 2025 for introducing vehicles with Level 4 autonomous driving capability.
Honda has already said that it intends to have vehicles capable of Level 3 freeway driving on the market by 2020, and is reiterating that goal today. Level 3, as defined by the Society of Automotive Engineers, refers to highly automated driving where the driver still needs to be able to take over the vehicle upon request. Level 4 automation means that the car is capable of handing most driving situations itself, whereas Level 5 is largely theoretical and covers complete automation in any condition.
“We are striving to provide our customers with a sense of confidence and trust by offering automated driving that  keep vehicles away from any dangerous situation and that  not make people around the vehicle feel unsafe,” Honda president and CEO Takahiro Hachigo told reporters.
Hachigo made his remarks while outlining a broader vision for the company over the next 13 years; he  said Honda plans for various forms of electric vehicle to account for two-thirds of the company’s sales by 2030. And from this fall onward, following the launch of the new N-Box, all new Honda vehicles sold in Japan  come with Honda Sensing driver-assist features as standard.
So, how close is Honda to achieving its more ambitious goals? Earlier this week, I “test-drove” two cars outfitted with prototype automation technology at the company’s R&D center in Utsunomiya, Japan.
The first drive tested automated freeway driving technology of the type Honda plans to introduce in 2020. I got into a Legend (Acura RLX in the US), drove from a parking lot onto a ramp and pressed an “auto” button on the steering wheel; the car then merged with the closed-track “freeway.” With my hands off the wheel and my feet off the pedal, the car accelerated to 100 kph (62 mph) to overtake a vehicle in the slow lane.
Later, in a simulated traffic jam, the car let me know that I was able to use the entertainment system mounted on the dashboard. A Skype video call then came in, which I answered with a button on the steering wheel, and I was disconnected once the traffic cleared up and the car started to accelerate beyond a crawl. The second time I took this demo, however, there seemed to be a glitch coming out of traffic and I had to drive myself the rest of the way back.
The next demo was for technology required to achieve Level 4 driving, and took place on regular single-lane streets around the R&D facility. While the Legend in the first demo was outfitted with advanced sensing technology, the car in the second demo ran on nothing but three conventional cameras. Honda is developing an AI system with supervised machine learning based on image data, and the company is in the process of bootstrapping, or feeding it a large set of data to learn from.
That makes it hard to judge the effectiveness of the AI system on a course that has presumably been run hundreds of times before. But in the back seat, there was a monitor that provided real-time analysis of what the car was “seeing,” and it was clear that the system could accurately detect things like the edges of roads even when they weren’t clearly marked. The car drove around for several minutes, stopping at crossings and letting other vehicles pass without any human intervention.
It’s early days for this technology, however, and several automakers appear to be ahead of Honda in their development of self-driving cars. “We are not trying to catch up with others but we are trying to achieve something unique to us,” Hachigo told reporters. “One approach is we are going to evolve our Honda Sensing technology to firmly establish automated driving. We are  discussing the possibility of joint R&D activities with Waymo, and that  be a separate technology from Honda Sensing. So in that regard, we have our strategy — we’re not just catching up, we are a leader.”
The partnership with Waymo, the Alphabet self-driving car unit that was spun out of Google X, was announced back in December with little in the way of detail. And Honda isn’t quite able to answer how its own homegrown AI technology  coexist with Waymo’s. “What we’re trying to do with Waymo is make Level 4 a reality,” Hachigo says. “Honda and Waymo have just started discussion of what we can do together in terms of research and development work, so nothing has been decided yet.”
But it’s notable that Honda is talking to Waymo at all about these things, and today’s statement of intent to reach Level 4 by 2025 shows the company doesn’t want to get left behind. The biggest question, as ever when the worlds of technology and transportation collide, is what it can bring to the table itself and what it may be better off leaving to partners.
Apple unveiled iOS 11 during its Worldwide Developers Conference this week, and while it might not feature an overhauled Messages app like last year, the company’s smaller but iterative changes add functionality that some users might have always wanted. Do Not Disturb While Driving, for example, mutes notifications when your iPhone thinks you’re moving. It’ll auto-reply to your texts, too, which is a welcome feature after other companies, like Samsung, introduced a similar product. The whole App Store is undergoing a redesign, as well, so that’s cool.
We compiled a couple lists of all the features we learned from the WWDC keynote, and now we’re narrowing them down to the things that we’re most excited about. These are the six best new features coming with iOS 11.
This could be huge. Users can pay someone via an iMessage or tell Siri to pay someone by using a credit or debit card that’s stored in their Wallet. Once they’re paid, this money goes into an Apple Pay Cash account and can be sent to other people or used to buy something in stores through Apple Pay. It can  be transferred to a bank account.
Now, your friends have to be on iOS for this to work, so it doesn’t have the exact appeal of Venmo or Square Cash, but still, the idea of sending money through Messages instead of a third-party app is appealing. I imagine some people likely won’t switch, simply because they’ve already set up a solid network on Venmo and have a workflow. For those who haven’t, or don’t like the social network part of that service, this is a nice opportunity to try something else.
Siri  be able to translate English words and phrases into Chinese, French, German, Italian, or Spanish. Apple demoed this functionality during its keynote. Google Assistant already does this, so while Apple’s playing catch-up with this feature, it’s still nice to have. We don’t know how well it works, but the idea of going to China and having Siri translate a phrase for me is great, especially if I don’t have to navigate to the Google Assistant app and can instead access Siri straight from my home button.
iOS 11  launch with the option to automatically delete apps you never use through a feature called Offload Unused Apps. Basically when you’re running low on storage, the feature  get rid of apps you infrequently use while retaining related documents and data so you can always get the app back. A tap on the app’s grayed-out icon  restore it. Owners of 16GB iPhones can celebrate this, although if you’re using a ton of apps, I’m not sure how much it’ll really help storage issues.
The new Control Center is getting a lot of flack for how overwhelming it could potentially look, but I’m psyched to have everything in one place. You can customize the control screen to your needs, like having an Apple TV widget or stopwatch access. This is slightly reminiscent of Android, and  probably be useful so long as you don’t go too crazy with shortcuts and basically turn it into a second home screen.
control center is likeTHIS ISNT EVEN MY FINAL FORM pic.twitter.com/MlWqf0YIxv
The iPad is going to act a lot more like a Mac. With iOS 11, we’ll be able to customize our docks with apps we use most frequently. Plus, we can multitask with up to three apps running at once, side by side. A new Files app   let users store data locally and access it straight from the device, just like a Mac. The Verge’s Vlad Savov pointed out this week that the iPad is increasingly becoming a device that could replace a computer. This is welcome news, especially for people who might be using their iPad at work.
Apple didn’t even mention that iOS 11 would allow for easy screen capturing during WWDC, but developers messing around with the beta release gave us a peek. You’ll be able to screen record right from the new Control Center to capture whatever you do. Share away.

As you may or may not be aware, the British people are heading to polling stations today to vote on who  govern them for the next few years. It’s an important day for me, as a European living and working in a country that’s decided to decouple itself from the European Union, but it’s  deeply fascinating from a professional perspective because of what it illustrates about the internet’s growing influence on everyday life. The way British people vote today  be influenced, in large or in small part, by the actions and decisions of people many miles outside of the UK: those Silicon Valley executives in charge of Google and Facebook’s massive online empires.
On the surface, neither Facebook nor Google has been politically active in this campaign. Both companies are intensely conscious to maintain an apolitical front and cooperate with whoever is in government — as was amply demonstrated when they sent senior envoys to Donald Trump’s tech executive roundtable. But look at the effect of Google and Facebook’s actions and omissions, and you’ll see a distinct political dimension, whether it’s deemed intentional or not.
When Facebook puts out a UK-wide reminder about the election to its members, and when Google promotes a #PowerToDecide YouTube compilation that encourages young Brits to get out and exercise their democratic right, both of these actions appear to be in the service of enhancing and strengthening democracy. And they are. But consider that younger people in the UK skew heavily to the left, and the more of them that actually turn out and make the effort to vote, the more likely it is that the Labour party  secure an unlikely majority and take control of the UK’s legislative and executive branches of government. Nudging the youth of Britain out of political apathy is effectively a Labour-favoring move.
The UK version of Google.com today leads, appropriately, to a ‘uk general election 2017’, surfacing the latest news coverage of the polling and pointing toward some live blogs from the likes of the Guardian and The Mirror. Again, all quite appropriate. But higher voter turnout in the election, which this Google Doodle stimulates, is another Labour-favoring effect. If you doubt me on this matter, check out this Channel 4 FactCheck analysis of whether or not rain on election day swings the votes one way or another — it notes that right-wing voters tend to be firm in their beliefs and consistent in their turnout, whereas lefties are a bit more susceptible to a "last straw" effect where it wouldn’t take too much to get them to skip voting altogether.
Put yourself in the shoes of a young voter, full of youthful idealism — which political leaders like the United States’ Bernie Sanders and the United Kingdom’s Jeremy Corbyn embody — but lacking the conviction that your vote  count. What if your favorite YouTuber suddenly surfaced on your screen imploring you to go discharge your democratic duty after finishing off your Shreddies? Wouldn’t you do that for them? Of course you’d brave a bit of rain and a short walk just to know you were on the same page as the person you admire.
But beyond Google and Facebook’s well-meaning efforts to get out the vote, there are plenty of other ways in which these two internet giants can affect an election.
In Facebook’s case, we’ve seen masses of coverage regarding the proliferation of fake news about the 2016 US election in its news streams, which is believed to have been fuelled by Russian propaganda trolls. Facebook’s algorithms fanned the most inflammatory disinformation around the world, because they’re more concerned with serving something pertinent to a person’s interests and beliefs than something verifiably factual. Many of its users would then repost those maliciously false stories, failing to check the source of the allegation in the midst of their outrage.
As to Google, the company that relies on algorithms more than any other, even a small tweak in its selection filters could skew the tenor of information that people see about an election. If Google’s idea of minimizing bias is to expose every side of a debate — even unmeritorious ones like, say, Kyrie Irving’s argument that the Earth is flat — its users  see one set of news results relating to an election. Alternatively, if Google prioritizes the most factual reporting, it’s likely to ignore such spurious claims and give a distinctly more scientific flavor to its search and news results. These choices might ultimately be executed by an algorithm, but there’s still a human at the controls.
Vote for the many, not the few. #DavidGilmour @jeremycorbyn pic.twitter.com/NEronBWeVb
And even beyond the two giants, there are things like Twitter’s (mostly irritating) In Case You Missed It module, which this morning served up the above pretty little tune from Pink Floyd lead guitarist David Gilmour. It’s your parents’ version of a YouTube influencer invading their timeline and saying, in no uncertain terms, that voting Labour would be the cool thing to do. And, let’s face it, parents want to be cool even more than their kids.
The thing that worries me about this present situation is that it’s only ramping up, and we don’t seem to be especially bothered by it. Anything that isn’t on Facebook these days is definitely indexed by Google or served up on its incredibly influential TV replacement, YouTube. In past elections, TV airtime was the most valuable currency for any politician, and the role of the newscaster was sacrosanct (the most trusted person in America was once Walter Cronkite). Now people get their news from the same place that they share cat GIFs. In the future, the hot property  be Facebook screen space and YouTube exposure. And while Google and Facebook, as they are currently constituted, keep making decisions that broadly agree with a liberal and scientific perspective, what their stranglehold on our attention  mean for the proper functioning of democracies is subject to debate. I think it’s time we had that debate.
If you haven’t used a Seaboard before, it’s hard to get all the adjectives straight. It’s a keyboard, but instead of being comprised of separate keys, it’s all one continuous, multitouch, pressure-sensitive, squishy (but not too squishy) surface with ridges where the piano keys should be. My colleague James Vincent spent 1,200 words describing the $799 Seaboard Rise back in 2015, so I won’t rehash all that here. Just know that Roli’s Seaboard technology is multi-dimensionally expressive, a little hard to learn, and now available in a much more portable and affordable form factor: the $299 Seaboard Block.
The new Seaboard Block works with Roli’s Blocks system, which lets you mix and match components and connect them wirelessly to Roli’s companion mobile app, Noise. For instance, if Seaboard Block’s 24 keys aren’t enough, you can snap in a second or third Seaboard Block, and they’ll work as one continuous keyboard. You can add a Lightpad Block to get a Seaboard-esque drumpad, or one of the smaller control blocks Roli offers to tweak Seaboard settings on the fly or trigger loops. My favorite part of the Blocks system is that it centers around a free app that has all of these features built-in — now including a virtual Seaboard as well — and the hardware just makes the controls more accessible, expressive, and tactile.
All the blocks, including the new Seaboard,  work over USB or Bluetooth as standard MIDI devices, and the Seaboard Block comes with a version of Roli’s own desktop software for fine-tuned adjustments of how the board plays.
The Seaboard Block  be available later this month.
Amazon has killed off its generous unlimited cloud storage deal for Amazon Drive. Previously, customers could store as much data as they liked on Amazon’s servers for just $60 a year (or $12 a year for just unlimited photos). Now, the company offers just two tiers: store up to 100GB for $11.99 a year, or up to 1TB for $60. It costs an extra $60 a year for each terabyte on top of this, with a top limit of 30 terabytes.
The changes kick in today, although anyone already signed up for unlimited storage  keep the offer until it expires. If they have auto-renew turned on, they’ll be automatically changed to the $60 / year plan when their first year ends. Some good news: anyone signed up for Amazon Prime  still get unlimited photo storage as part of their membership, and anyone who signs up for Amazon Drive   get 5GB for free.
Killing off unlimited storage isn’t a surprising move from Amazon. The company introduced the deal back in 2015 as part of a campaign against rival cloud services like Dropbox and Google Drive. But these sorts of offers are only really good for getting customers in the door — they’re not sustainable. Microsoft went through a similar process with unlimited OneDrive storage: introducing it in October 2014 for Office 365 subscribers, then reducing it to a 1TB limit in November 2015.
Amazon says users taking advantage of the unlimited storage deal who don’t want to start paying for one of the new plans  have 180 days to download or delete their data. After that grace period, Amazon  start deleting content for them (starting with most recent uploads) until the account falls within the new limits.
Microsoft has trademarked “DirectReality” ahead of its E3 press event on Sunday, with some hints that this mysterious service might involve holographic apps. The software giant describes DirectReality as “online computer software for holographic applications” and software as a service. DirectReality is  related to gaming, and the trademark filing was spotted by Gamespot just days after Microsoft trademarked a mysterious S logo ahead of its Xbox Project Scorpio unveiling.
DirectReality sounds like another version of Microsoft’s Mixed Reality marketing, but it’s not likely related. Although the filing could be for something that never makes it to market, the structure of the trademark indicates Microsoft  be naming this DirectReality rather than Direct Reality. Microsoft has filed for a single word mark, and the DirectReality filing appears alongside a similar Windows HomeLoop software as a service trademark. The naming could hint that DirectReality is related to Microsoft's DirectX gaming APIs.
None of this provides many answers, but Microsoft has indicated it won’t be showing off any Xbox VR headsets at E3 this year. That doesn’t rule out new MixedReality software, or even a demonstration of HoloLens at E3. Microsoft has been teasing its Xbox Project Scorpio console with hidden messages this week, and the company plans to unveil the final design on Sunday at 2PM PT / 5PM ET.
If Amazon and Google have their way and quadcopters become as commonplace as delivery vehicles, it could lead to some very busy skies. To manage this problem, a number of companies and institutions are working on air traffic control systems for drones — including Alphabet subsidiary Project Wing.
In a Medium post published yesterday, Project Wing’s co-lead James Burgess revealed that the company has deployed a prototype drone control system in a series of tests organized by NASA and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The software uses a number of Google systems for support (Google Maps helped created “a detailed understanding of the world” and the company’s cloud service provide processing power) and was able to successfully manage “the complex flight paths of multiple UAS [unmanned aircraft systems] at the same time,” adjusting routes on the fly to avoid midair collisions.
“This is an important step that paves the way to a future where many UAS operators can fly safely together,” wrote Burgess. “It  makes it possible for a single operator — a person or organization —  to fly multiple aircraft simultaneously.”
The company predicts that in a few years’ time, Wing and other firms  have fleets of drones numbering in their thousands. However, these initial tests were very limited in comparison — organizing an aerial ballet using just three Wing drones, two from Intel, and one from DJI. The Wing aircraft were tasked with picking up and delivering packages, while the other three were performing “automated search and rescue missions.”
Drone air traffic control is still in its infancy, and there’s a lot of work needed to be done before these systems  be robust enough to work with hundreds of aircraft. But this is a promising step forward — and could end up being a lucrative venture for Google itself.
Logitech has two new sets of gaming headphones, the G433 and G233, that are designed to work just as well for playing Call of Duty as they are for playing the latest Lorde song on the go. The G223 is the cheaper of the two models, coming in a single black-and-cyan color scheme at $79.99. The G433 offers virtual surround sound in the form of DTS Headphone X 7.1 technology, with a slightly higher price tag of $99.99.
Additionally, the G433 has a “hydrophobic, stain-resistant fabric finish” that is available in Royal Blue, Fire Red, and Triple Black. There’s  a Best Buy-exclusive Camo Blue model, which should be perfect for all the times you’re on a stealthy underwater mission and don’t want your headphones to give away your position.
Both the G433 and the G233 feature Logitech’s own Pro-G drivers, and offer a removable boom microphone for when you’d like to talk to and / or trash talk your fellow players. Both headphones should be compatible with PCs, consoles, and mobile devices, and they’re available now.
Apple’s newest ad features an array of short clips, shot on iPhone by regular users, underscored by the calming voice of astronomer Carl Sagan. The crisp and clear clips — of forests, beaches, and mountains, of insects and birds — serve to advertise the smartphone’s camera, certainly, but the choice of natural imagery and Carl Sagan’s voiceover feel like a pointed message in the wake Donald Trump’s decision to back out of the Paris environmental agreement.
The fact we only have one livable planet “underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another, and to preserve, and cherish, the only home we’ve ever known,” Sagan says, an excerpt from his classic Pale Blue Dot. “There is nowhere else, at least in the near future, to where our species could migrate.” They’re words that scientists would say should be remembered as the United States’ government backs out on promises to battle climate change.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has said as much, criticizing Donald Trump’s decision both in public and private. Cook reportedly called the White House in a bid to urge the president not to back out of the Paris deal. When his pleas fell on deaf ears, Cook made statements both to his employees, and to the public in an interview with Bloomberg, saying that Trump should have stayed with the deal.
Apple’s debut video series, Planet of the Apps, is a showcase for entrepreneurs hoping to raise money for their startups, aided by a quartet of celebrity coaches. Each week, we’ll consider the things they do right — and the things they should have done much, much differently.
The debut episode of Planet of the Apps plays more or less as promised — a tech-focused Shark Tank spliced with elements of The Voice. Over the course of 49 minutes, we dive deep with the founders behind two companies and follow them from their first pitch to a meeting with an honest-to-goodness venture capital firm. Guiding them along the way are celebrity judges Jessica Alba, Gwyneth Paltrow, .i.am, and entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk.
Along the way, we get brief glimpses of less promising companies, including the founders of a memorably confusing app that displays dating profiles for people going to events. Alba and Paltrow rightly identify the app as a magnet for creeps, and .i.am is having none of what the founders are selling. (“I have sisters. I don’t want my sister and my cousin Mimi, who is hot, who looks like Beyoncé, to have any more pressure than she already has going to the club with a bunch of hawks and vultures swarming around.”)
Every startup chosen to appear on the show gets a 60-second “escalator pitch” in which they describe their company to the celebrities as they descend. (This is by far the show’s most gimmicky element, but I enjoyed the visual metaphor of idealistic young founders descending to level of reality TV.) If at least one celebrity wants to hear more, the startup gets to make a more complete pitch. At that point, any of the coaches can either back out or offer to help, The Voice-style.
The coach then offers in-person mentoring to the founders in an effort to help them hone their pitch — although in the first episode, coaches Alba and Vaynerchuk spend most of their time looking like they regret ever offering their assistance. Alba persuades the founder she’s working with, who makes an augmented reality interior design app called Pair, to change his business model, which flops with investors. Vaynerchuk comes across as the most savvy of the judges, if perpetually on the brink of an aneurysm. But he knows where to poke holes in the lies founders tell themselves, and he offers the most practical advice of anyone in the pilot.
As the episode concludes, the founders meet with partners from Lightspeed Ventures; its investments include Snap, GIPHY, and Nest. If the partners like what they see, they invest — at an unannounced valuation or percentage of ownership — and the founders cry out in ecstasy and embrace everyone on the stage as the credits roll.
For all its Hollywood credentials, Planet of the Apps comes across as surprisingly low-rent. It unfolds with minimal visual flair, and many basic questions about the show go unanswered. How many developers applied to be a part of the show? How many were chosen?  we ever see the winners again?  cousin Mimi make an appearance?
Here are some startup lessons from the episode one of Planet of the Apps.
DO: Have a plausible growth strategy. Companion, a personal-safety app from recent college graduates Lexie Ernst and Jake Wayne, leverages your friend network to keep your safe while you’re traveling home. What gets Lightspeed excited about the app is that Companion suggests you invite at least three friends to keep track of you on your way home — and one of those friends, on average, becomes an active Companion user. Good!
DON’T: Change your business model because Jessica Alba tells you to. Pair’s Andrew Kemendo arrives on Planet with an e-commerce app. Use your phone to virtually place furniture and other decorations in your home, and then buy them through the app. By the time Alba is done with him, he’s pitching VCs on building an indoor 3D map of the world, which he  then monetize… somehow. No one is convinced, and he leaves without a check.
DON’T: Pitch just one VC firm. One of the weirder elements of Planet is that founders only get to pitch a single firm, at least on the show. Different investors have different strengths, and it’s odd to have founders’ fates all hinge on whether their app is good for the Lightspeed portfolio. One reason Shark Tank works is that its judges have a diverse set of skills; on Planet the adults are either famous people or partners at one consumer-focused VC firm. Other founders — and the show — would be wise to mix it up.
DO: Take Gary Vaynerchuk with a grain of salt. Vaynerchuk spends most of the episode in a lather that Google has introduced Trusted Contacts, a feature similar to the Companion app that he has just agreed to advise. “This is a straight-up atomic bomb to their business,” he says. It is then revealed that Companion was already testing a premium version of its service that goes far beyond Google’s, and Lightspeed invests $1 million. Some atomic bomb!
We invite you to join us next week for further lessons from Planet of the Apps.

Archaeologists have unearthed 300,000-year-old fossilized bones of early humans — the oldest remains of Homo sapiens yet discovered, two new studies report. The ancient bones contain a mix of modern and primitive features that hint at an early, and previously unknown, phase of our species’s evolution.
On the family tree of human relatives, collectively known as hominins, our ancestors split from the Neanderthal branch more than 500,000 years ago. Fossils that looked like modern humans started showing up in East Africa about 200,000 years ago. But when exactly modern humans evolved from our most recent ancestor, probably Homo heidelbergensis, is a mystery. Now, two new studies published today in the journal Nature fill in some of those missing millennia, and suggest that hominins were well on their way to looking like modern-day humans about 300,000 years ago.
The fossils come from an archaeological site in Morocco, called Jebel Irhoud. Hominin bones were first pulled out of the ground there in the 1960s, and were dated to about 40,000 years ago. But the archaeologists were sloppy, and experts began to suspect that date was very wrong. So, in 2004, the site reopened and over the next seven years, archaeologists unearthed more hominin remains, including parts of skulls and jaw bones. They  found animal bones that had been butchered and possibly cooked, and stone tools that had been burned at some point — all in the same layer of dirt. That’s key: being in the same layer means these finds were all approximately the same age.
The stone tools were a lucky find, because they gave the researchers — led by Jean-Jacques Hublin and Shannon McPherron at the Max Planck Institute in Germany — a chance to date that layer precisely. By measuring how many electrons accumulated in the tools over millennia, the researchers dated the layer and the hominin bones within it to about 315,000 years ago.
From the skull fragments, the researchers virtually reconstructed the faces of the ancient humans who had once lived at the site. Their features were small, and their faces were tucked underneath the brain case, rather than jutting out in front. “The face is the face of somebody you could cross in the metro,” Hublin told Michael Greshko in National Geographic. But the brain case was more primitive — flatter and longer instead of high and round, like ours. That’s why Hublin and his colleagues think the ancient denizens of Jebel Irhoud were an early evolutionary phase of Homo sapiens — somewhere on the developmental path between Homo heidelbergensis and us.
The two authors of an analysis published alongside the study agree with this assessment. But, the findings haven’t been met with universal approval. Paleoanthropologist John Hawks at the University of Wisconsin-Madison told Greshko that these new studies “really aren’t adding anything new except the date.” Hawks added that he doesn’t think the findings warrant creating a new category of “early modern humans” to describe the mix of primitive and modern traits. But regardless of what we call these ancient relatives of ours, these new findings give us a better idea of how we became who we are today.
Apple dabbled in making clothing once upon a time. From the mid-‘80s through the early ‘90s, the brand catered to their fandom with the most exquisitely time-frozen clothing and accessories, in campaigns full of oversized sweatshirts, popped collars, and a whiff of American Psycho. One of the most coveted items Apple produced during this time was a pair of branded sneakers, which Heritage Auctions is planning to list on eBay on June 11th with a cool starting price of $15,000.
The white vintage sneakers feature the rainbow Apple logo and are especially rare as they never left the prototype stage and were only given to employees. The apparent mint (or near-mint) quality of this particular pair, then, squarely puts these sneakers in unicorn territory.
There are always brand loyalists who  bite at anything Apple-related, but considering the ‘90s are currently having a major fashion moment — Gap, for example, recently revived its classic ‘90s collection — it seems like an apropos time to test the (very expensive) waters.
Heritage Auctions says the estimated value of the kicks are actually $30,000 but really, they’re worth what someone  pay for them. There’s a good chance the auction  reach that threshold, though, as Apple memorabilia is infamous for being costly. Last year, another private vendor sold a leather jacket Steve Jobs wore for $22,000. No big deal.
To celebrate the 31st anniversary of Ferris Bueller’s Day Off (a very important anniversary, needless to say), Domino’s  be streaming the movie for free on its Facebook page on Sunday, June 11th at 7PM ET.
Variety reports that the showing  be part of a series of “Facebook Live Movie Nights” on the pizza chain’s page, and  explains how pizza  play into the event: there  be pizza discount codes available to viewers. According to Domino’s, the “more people who watch, the higher the discount could be.” Okay, so even if you have Ferris on DVD and no interest in pizza you can tune in to help someone else get a better pizza discount, if you’re in a low-effort altruism mood on Sunday evening.
Domino’s is pretty well known for its tech hobby, so it was probably only a matter of time until it made its way to Facebook Live. Whoever is the ideas guy or gal over there really loves churning out innovative new pizza-tech pairings, such as ordering a pizza with an emoji, ordering a pizza with an Amazon Echo, ordering a pizza with your car, ordering a pizza with your Samsung Smart TV, ordering a pizza with an app just by opening it and clicking nothing. (Most of the ideas involve pizza ordering.)
In some countries, Domino’s  has robots. Unfortunately Papa John’s did beat Domino’s to the idea of ordering a pizza with an Apple TV app. And Pizza Hut beat it to the idea of ordering a pizza with a Facebook Messenger chatbot. The pizza tech wars are ongoing, and though Domino’s is still firmly in the lead, it clearly has a target on its back.
Hence: Ferris, a guy with a target on his back, who comes up unscathed over and over.
When Austin-based filmmaker Lex Lybrand set out to make a movie about patent trolls, people who abuse the legal system by weaponizing intellectual property rights, he wanted to focus on Texas, not Silicon Valley. Still, he’s gotten tangled up with the other Silicon Valley — the satirical HBO comedy about the California tech hub. Lybrand says a writer for the show stole elements of his film, including key lines of dialogue, scenes, and overarching plot elements.
With help from an Austin intellectual-property firm, Lybrand is now trying to set the record straight. First, it helps to understand why an indie movie set in Texas and built around intellectual-property abuse, would potentially catch the eye of a team of Los Angeles-based TV writers. For one, tech companies are often the target of these patent trolls, who use overly broad patents to milk settlement money from large companies with deep pockets. For Lybrand, who wanted to make a film set in and centered on his home state, this arcane legal controversy happened to be perfect fuel for a tiny movie with a David vs. Goliath setup.
The Texas setting has a strong real-world basis, too. Federal courts in eastern Texas have become infamous over the last decade for being home to an outsized number of patent-infringement cases. That happened because the area’s court system is especially friendly to plaintiffs — in the small Eastern District town of Marshall, Judge Rodney Gilstrap oversaw more than a quarter of the country’s patent cases in 2015, reports the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
According to Vice, he and a group of other sympatico Texas judges have helped transform the Eastern District into a patent troll haven, through a mix of inadvertent courtroom rule changes to speed up cases, and a not-so-subtle desire to reap the benefits of a lucrative legal cottage industry. Hotels in Marshall are so commonly frequented by lawyers that one hotel even purchased a subscription to the electronic court-records system PACER, to better sell rooms to patent-case workers. (This is all set to change following a landmark Supreme Court decision last month that’s changing the rules on where patent litigation takes place.)
Because of Texas’ patent troll notoriety, Lybrand’s film, The Trolls, received partial funding from an Austin IP firm called Cesari & Reed, LLP, with additional support from a crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo. Lybrand says the firm wanted to highlight the legal abuses in an effort to bring more attention to the issue.
Like The Trolls, the most recent episode of HBO’s Silicon Valley, from creators Mike Judge and Alec Berg, focused entirely on patent trolls, and the ways they extort both big companies and small startups using broad ownership of a vague idea. In the episode, fictional Pied Piper CEO Richard Hendriks is targeted by a former attorney who claims he owns the patent to a technology covering the "storage of media files on a network,” forcing a number of defensive maneuvers from Pied Piper to avoid the $20,000 settlement fee.
Lybrand says the show’s script lifted a handful of scenes and plot elements straight from his movie. He even cut together a side-by-side comparison that illustrates how the sequences of his film, with a runtime of 93 minutes, were condensed into a 30-minute episode of television, down to putting a Chevy Volt in the parking lot of the patent troll’s modest home office:
Every moment from this week's @SiliconHBO lifted from my film, @TrollsTheMovie  (2015). Did I miss any? #fixpatents @dailydot @DigitalTrends pic.twitter.com/X797vf12n6
“I watch the show pretty regularly, so I had seen part of the ‘next week on Silicon Valley' teaser at some point during the week,” he says. “So, I knew they were doing something with patent trolls. I didn't know how specifically related to my film it was until I watched it on Monday night.”
Perhaps the most egregious offense, Lybrand says, is the line, “You trolled the trolls,” delivered by Silicon Valley’s Zach Woods. That’s effectively the tagline of Lybrand’s film, and the line is repeated in one form or another multiple times in his movie. “This type of plagiarism is definitely illegal. Trademark or copyright infringement, for sure… and I'm still not sure if it counts as irony.” Lybrand adds that he’d like to seek a writing credit on the episode, as well as residuals. “But please, for the love of God,  tell me if this counts as irony.”
When reached for comment, HBO issued this statement to The Verge: “We are confident that the episode is the original work of the writers of Silicon Valley.” The episode’s sole credited writer, comedian Andrew Law, did not respond to a request for comment. His IMDb page lists a number of writing and acting credits, most prominently Late Night with Seth Meyers. Law has never written for Silicon Valley before, but Lybrand says he’s tangentially connected to The Trolls. “He's good friends with an ex of one of the actresses,” he says.
As for how a small indie film could have caught the eye of an HBO writer, Lybrand has a few potential answers. The Trolls didn’t make it into SXSW last year, despite the best efforts of Lybrand and his production crew. It did, however, make the rounds online. “It's an indie film, but it wasn't completely invisible,” Lybrand says. “We played festivals across the country, including one at a comedy festival in New York, where the credited writer lives.” Lybrand did a televised interview on CNBC with comedian Adam Carolla, who’s made headlines in the past for fighting a patent troll over podcast distribution. The Trolls has  been available via video-on-demand on Amazon Prime since October 2016.
Lybrand is considering his next steps, including potential legal action. It helps, of course, that he’s now good friends with people at the Austin law firm that helped fund his movie. “Having them on my side in this case is a huge plus. I don't have to worry about the whole ‘good luck going up against HBO and their lawyers’ –– I have a literal team of lawyers on my side,” he says. “I know their argument  probably be ‘this is some indie flick nobody has ever heard of’ –– but that's not the case with this one. Not this time.”

Amazon’s website seems to be having issues with its product pages: across the online store, pages are failing to load. Users are instead presented with a 503 error, and one of several adorable dogs, in what is an incredibly rare outage for the online retailer.
Given Amazon’s prominence in supplying web servers for huge swaths of the internet that can be disastrous when they fail, outages on its own site are kind of significant, especially given that the site is essentially losing money in missed sales every second it’s down.
According to the website Down Detector, the outages seem to be affecting large swaths of the Northeast and West Coast of America, many of them completely unable to access any product pages or complete orders.
I’ve never seen Amazon do this before. It feels like finding a Google search with only one a single returned result. pic.twitter.com/iHYqE54Px4
We’ve reached out to Amazon for more information on the outage, and  continue to update this post with more information.
Update June 7th, 4:50PM: Amazon’s site seems to be largely back up and running again.
Today, NASA added 12 new astronauts to its corps, which now boasts 56 active members who can be assigned to upcoming spaceflight missions. The new class is made up of five women and seven men of various backgrounds — ranging from Air Force commanders to a ocean research engineer. One is even a former SpaceX engineer.
The new class was announced this afternoon at a special event at NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston. In attendance were numerous Texas representatives as well as Vice President Mike Pence, who gave a speech about the future of the space agency. Pence didn’t mention too many specifics but did say that President Trump is “firmly committed” to NASA’s mission in space and that “America  lead the way in space once again.”
Pence  reconfirmed that he  head up the soon-to-be-resurrected National Space Council — an executive group aimed at guiding US space policy. The council used to exist in the ‘60s and ‘70s, and was in effect during George H.W. Bush’s administration, but it was disbanded in 1993. Pence actually confirmed in March that Trump intended to relaunch the council and apparently there is already an executive order drafted to create the group, Space News reported. However, it’s unclear when the council  be officially formed.
Additionally, Pence noted that NASA would continue to have the resources it needs to “make history” — even though the president’s budget request cuts funding and cancels certain programs at the agency. And he mentioned that NASA would continue to collaborate with the commercial space industry in the future. As for the rest of his speech, Pence touted the merits of the new astronaut class. “The courage of these men and women, and all the astronauts who have gone before, inspires me to this very day,” he said.
And certainly, the new astronauts are very inspiring. This group was selected from a record 18,300 applicants — more than NASA has ever had during an open astronaut call. To get picked, people have to meet some physical requirements as well as certain education and experience criteria — such as having a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field or accumulating up to 1,000 hours of piloting jets. But it’s clear that this new class greatly surpasses all the minimum skills that NASA requires.
To learn more about the 12 new hires, check out NASA’s site, which has detailed biographies of each astronaut.
Facebook today announced three new features that  make its service far more useful to elected officials, according to TechCrunch. The primary goal is to help politicians better connect with constituents in their designated district. But at a deeper level, Facebook is making it easier than ever before for these officials to gain insight into the thoughts and behaviors driving their communities, transforming the social network into a data gold mine for predicting voter behavior and all sorts of other valuable political findings.
These new tools are an expansion of the company’s existing Town Hall feature. Town Hall, first introduced in March, is a way for users to better connect with and reach out to local representatives via Facebook. It’s all part of a broader effort to help make Facebook a tool for improving civic discourse, as per CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s revised manifesto released in February.
Now, instead of seeing names and faces of potential constituents, elected officials can see a special badge that designates a Facebook user as someone who lives in their district. This is an opt-in feature that  let you be identified by which district you live in, based on the address only you provide. Facebook says it  cut down on people pretending to be in a district they don’t belong in by limiting the number of times you can change your address in Town Hall, as well wiping constituent badges from past posts if you do happen to change your address.
Another new tool for elected officials comes in the form of the Page Insights feature that  let those politicians discover which news stories are popular in their district. This  let an official, or a Page administrator for that politician, get a drop-down list of news stories, which can then be linked in a post on the page alongside a personal stance on the issue at hand. This latter tool  be coupled with a third new feature called Direct Targeting. This  let an elected official send out a post or poll to only those living in their district.
All of these combined together provide a very powerful toolset for politicians to begin engaging more deeply with those they represent, and learning from them as well. However, it all depends on whether Facebook users opt-in to these features and start using Town Hall earnestly. That remains to be seen, but adding these types of features can only strengthen Facebook’s role as a place for meaningful political discussion, and not just a place to get rant angrily at random acquaintances and family members with whom you disagree.
DirecTV Now  exclusively work in Google Chrome starting in July, ditching support for Safari and Internet Explorer in favor of Google’s browser, per a report from AppleInsider.
The news was announced in the form of a notification greeting users when they logged into the over-the-top streaming service. It informs users that DirecTV Now  only be supporting Chrome and the various mobile and TV apps for the service going forward, offering a link to download Google Chrome.
While the removal of additional browser options isn’t exactly great, the news isn’t super surprising. DirecTV Now’s support page already recommends Chrome for online streaming, so the move to only supporting Chrome does make some sense.
Per the notice, users  have until the end of June to make the switch, although AT&T has yet to formally announce the change outside of the notification to users, so it’s possible that things could change between now and July.
Flourish Klink and Elizabeth Minkel, co-hosts of the fandom podcast Fansplaining, recently conducted the loosest of academic studies, all about literature’s most controversial genre. Their survey — nine multiple choice questions, one longform response — has the herculean goal of defining “fan fiction.”
Fanlore, the wiki of record for all things fandom, says fan fiction must be “a work of fiction written by fans for other fans, taking a source text or a famous person as a point of departure.” But that’s just one definition, and bits of it are controversial. Hence the survey.
With 3,564 responses to their survey, Klink and Minkel have an enormous data set, which they’ve made public for anyone who’s curious and wants to poke around. Klink has  published an essay exploring the survey’s broadest findings on Medium, drawing up two basic schools of thought. On one side, respondents were interested in a “formal” definition of fan fiction, with 88 percent emphasizing that it must be a derivative work. On the other, respondents were more interested in a “context” definition of fan fiction, delineating what is and isn’t fan fiction based on who it is written for and by.
The people who took the survey agreed on almost nothing — whether fan fiction must be written by someone other than the original author of the original work, whether fan fiction can be based on real people, whether it can be for profit — and when you’re done sifting through the findings, you’ll likely be left with more questions than you had before you started. But it’s still a fascinating heap of information, full of as many insights about what people get out of fan fiction as it is hints about how the genre is coming to be defined. The definition of fan fiction has, of course, already been crowdsourced — it’s been in the process of being crowdsourced ever since it became a thing. Trying to put that to paper is a gargantuan task, even when trimmed down to a few thousand voices.
To get a better sense of what research like this could be used for, I talked to Klink about the process, her favorite insights, and all the ways the label “fan fiction” can be used.
This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
What’s your background in fandom? Why did you decide to do this research?
I started off as a fan, running a major Harry Potter fan-fic website, and through that met this guy Henry Jenkins who’s one of the founders of fan studies. I did grad school with him. And then Fansplaining is a podcast that the journalist Elizabeth Minkel and I have been doing for almost two years now. We have two episodes every month and they’re an hour each, and we talk to fans and people who work in the entertainment industry.
Before this, we ran another survey that was about people’s favorite tropes in fan fiction. That was a shorter survey, and it was taken by about 10,000 people. And through that we got a lot of attention from folks. Fandom really loves taking surveys and hearing about themselves. So when we did this one all we had to do was say, “Hey, here we are, we’re doing this survey.”
Please be clear on this, this is not a scientific survey or anything. Honestly, it’s just for fun. I say this as a serious researcher: this is not actual research that I would rely on  for anything but it can help us to get a baseline idea. If I really wanted to do this for real, it would have to be promoted in different ways and we would have to make sure that it was representative and well-designed.
This research is just something you do in your free time, it’s not funded or anything?
Absolutely not funded. This is a podcast that we make for fun. We have a Patreon. Our Patreon supporters, generally speaking, donate a dollar a month. It doesn’t cover our costs.
What kinds of spaces were you promoting the survey in? 83 percent of the respondents were women, which didn’t surprise me, but the age range was very diverse.
[For the podcast], we try to reach out to really diverse groups of people in terms of age, race, and what kind of a fan they are. For instance, we’ve had people talking about baseball fandom, music fandom, and, of course, a lot of people from fan-fic fandom. So, the idea is just to broadly talk about topics that relate to fans. Because we talk to so many different people from so many different corners of fandom, that’s probably where that diversity you’re thinking of comes from.
When we were promoting this, one thing we were really excited about was that some people on classic science fiction and fantasy fandom sites shared it, so we got some of those older people responding. It’s not like fan fiction was just invented on Tumblr. Fan fiction, depending on how you define it, of course, has been around for a really long time.
Was there anything you saw in the responses that surprised you?
It was remarkable — and again this is highly unscientific — that people who had entered fandom in the ‘90s were much more likely to talk about fan fiction as being not-for-profit, as being separate from the creators, and separate from the powers that be. Again, I’m not saying that this is a watertight case, but I thought that was a very interesting correlation that appeared. If I was going to do another study that was more scientific, I would definitely have that as a hypothesis now.
I was a little surprised that so many people mentioned that fan fiction can be of any length. Other types of stories, other types of novels, poetry, etc., those things all have limited length. They have to be a certain length in order to be published. Fan fiction can be any length that you want, from 100 words all the way up to literally the longest work of fiction ever written. That’s a formal aspect of fan-fic that I was not very attentive to, but Elizabeth was like “of course, duh.”
Obviously you have a huge pile of data to go through. Do you know what kind of stuff you’re going to pull out next?
We’re actually asking people about this. First of all, the data is available for anybody to look at. We’ve made that available under a creative commons license for anyone to use, any other researchers who want to dig into it absolutely should. I know there are a lot of other fan studies people who are getting at it. I’m sure that there  be third-party research done on this data that  come out in the future.
Which part of the Definitions Survey would you most like to hear about next? (If you pick "edge case works," tell us which ones especially!)
We have a bunch of questions where we asked people to talk about individual edge cases in fan fiction. Stuff like Fifty Shades of Grey and The Master of the Universe, which is the fan fiction it was based on. Stuff like Anna Todd’s After or Rainbow Rowell’s Carry On, which are edge-case fan-fic in a very different way. We’ll do little mini dives into each of those questions, or if we see patterns emerging we’ll talk about that.
Because not everybody has read every edge case, those  necessarily come from smaller data sets. On those we’ll probably stick to just doing little pop-up Tumblr posts. We  asked our Patreon patrons a question about how to define “fandom,” which was basically a test balloon for some future survey. We don’t know if we  run it or not, but we would do the same thing as we did for this, which is coding the responses and then pulling them out. And we would probably put that in our next quarterly zine.
You mentioned in the results that there’s been some overlap between fan fiction and the entertainment industry in the last few years. What do you think is causing that?
The blend between fan fiction and professional fiction wouldn’t exist if not for changing ideas about fandom and changing understandings of fan fiction on the part of the public. Not just entertainment. Personally, I think this has to do with the advent of the internet and the fact that now more people have access to this tiny subculture. In the past, in the ‘80s, you had to be a big enough nerd to go to science fiction conventions and find the fan fiction that people were selling in zine format. With the internet, you no longer have to do that. You can stumble upon it, and more and more people have done that. It’s become normalized.
And in the process of that, the entertainment industry has seen that fan fiction is a great breeding ground for new talent and that it actually serves to promote the things that it’s about. Of course there are lots of other reasons to write fan-fic besides coming to participate in the commercial enterprise, but from an industry perspective that’s why it matters.
Obviously the big example everyone always pulls out is Fifty Shades of Grey. Can you think of others that have bridged that same gap that don’t get talked about as much?
Oh, completely. There’s a ton of stuff that bridges that, throughout history. You can look back at things like Sherlock Holmes pastiches, which are fan fiction that’s published. That includes things like Laurie R. King’s The Beekeeper’s Apprentice. She’s a huge Sherlock Holmes fan, she’s a mystery writer, so she created this series of stories where Sherlock Holmes has a new female partner. These are professionally published fiction, and they are  partaking in a lot of tropes of fan writing. That’s one way you could talk about it.
There’s  a lot of science fiction writers that start out writing fan fiction, and then realized “Oh you know, this is actually about original characters, I’d rather have it be original.” I don’t have confirmation on this, but I’ve certainly heard that Lois McMaster Bujold’s Vorkosigan Saga, which is an incredibly well-known science fiction universe, started off as a Star Trek fan-fic. It got the serial numbers rubbed off and moved on.
Can you explain that phrase? “The serial numbers rubbed off?”
So, you know when you steal a car? Stolen engine parts or whatever, they have serial numbers on them so that they can be traced. If you rub the serial numbers off, you don’t know where it came from, you can’t trace it. When people rub the serial numbers off their fan-fic, what that means is they take out all the things that make it fan-fic and just leave the story itself, the archetypes of the characters, and rename everything. Fifty Shades of Grey is like this. It started off as fan-fic with Edward and Bella, [E.L. James] rubbed the serial numbers off, and now it’s a professionally published story.
There are a bunch of other examples, but unfortunately when people “rub the serial numbers off,” often they don’t want it to be very public. Fifty Shades was the first one where that was very public.
You mention in the survey results that this distinction makes it a little bit hard to differentiate between fan fiction borrowing and the borrowing that any literature does naturally, or does consciously.
Completely. There are lots of examples of things that are borrowing traditionally. For example, let’s take the current hot thing in the literary world, [George Saunders’] Lincoln in the Bardo. How is that not fan fiction about Abraham Lincoln?
There are some reasons I could think of. It wasn’t written in the context of a fan fiction community, so maybe that makes it not fan fiction. It was written for money, although probably not that much money because it’s literary fiction. It was written for status, it was written for all these things that are not usually what fan fiction accomplishes. But I would guess that it was  written out of a sympathy for Lincoln, and an emotional affection. I can’t imagine writing something like that without that being part of it. And in that respect, especially if you admire Lincoln or see him as a person to emulate — which I mean, who wouldn’t? — where do we cross over that line from it being not fan-fic to it being fan-fic?
Some people in the survey were defining fan fiction based on what it is in itself and other people were defining it based on its context, or who it was made by or made for.  Is that a divide you expected?
I think we expected that both those things would appear. If people can take away something from this survey, I think I would want it to be that those two definitions are both important in different ways. There’s the definition that fan fiction is just like literary fiction — anyone can do it, it’s just borrowing. [By that definition], The Aeneid is fan-fic of The Iliad, Ulysses is fan-fic of The Odyssey, Lincoln in the Bardo is real person fan-fic about Lincoln. That is an argument that helps fan writers talk about the respectability of their practice. If you’re writing fan fiction you can say, “Look, I’m part of a great tradition of taking inspiration very directly from other things.”
Fan fiction is  a specific culture that’s developed, and it’s been really looked down upon by a lot of people. In this culture, there was this whole thing about secrecy for a long time because people didn’t want to get sued. It’s a very female culture. When men write something that looks like fan fiction, they get paid a lot of money for it. When women write fan fiction, they have to hide it, in order to not get sued. This is a big deal culturally, subculturally. When you think about that, then it becomes very important that fan fiction is made in the community.
There are certain tropes and certain styles. There’s even phrases that I can identify. If I’m reading a book I’ll go, “Oh my god, I think that person wrote fan-fic,” and then I look into it deeper and they totally did. One of the things is that people are always “toeing out of their shoes” in fan-fic. I don’t know why, but like three years ago this became a thing. And now everybody toes out of their shoes. The influence is so strong within the community. And that’s something that, for example, Lincoln in the Bardo is not part of. I’ve read it and certainly there are other fan-fic writers have read it, but he’s not writing it for us. No one toes out of their shoes in Lincoln in the Bardo.

Twitch added an affiliate program a few months ago, giving streamers a chance to make money by monetizing their streams. The company is now expanding that by giving affiliate streamers a 5 percent cut of any revenue made from purchases of games or in-game items through Twitch’s store.
The revenue share has been available to “Partner” streamers — who are selected by Twitch — since the store opened in February, but today’s move opens that up to any streamer who qualifies to be an affiliate. Any user who, in the last 30 days, has had at least 500 total minutes of broadcasts, seven unique broadcast days, and an average of three concurrent viewers or more, along with at least 50 followers, can apply to join the affiliate program.
Affiliate steamers  be able to start making money off of game purchases today. All an affiliate user has to do is stream a game that’s offered on the store, and a purchase link  automatically show up on the page for viewers watching the stream. The revenue share for purchases joins the previous “Cheering with Bits” as an option for affiliates to monetize their streams. But there’s still a long way to go for Twitch to build out the platform for users who hope to make a living streaming, including offering money from channel subscriptions and ad revenue splits (both of which are offered to Partners), which Twitch plans to open up to affiliates sometime in the future.
Correction: Clarified that Twitch is planning to bring ad revenue splits and channel subscriptions as monetization options for affiliates in the future.
1932's The Mummy is a cinematic classic that's been periodically brought back to life by Universal Pictures. The first series ran through 1955, with a second reboot following in 1959, with a third series hitting theaters in 1999, with Brendan Fraser in the lead role.
Now, Universal has brought the series back once again, for an ambitious new cinematic universe that  include all of the classic monsters in the studio's back catalog, this time starring Tom Cruise. Here's all the news, updates, and trailers for latest reboot.
The Mummy hits theaters on June 9th, 2017.
Sharing the Wi-Fi password when a friend comes over is one of the minor trials of modern life. After all, your devices are all already configured, so why should you have the exact alphanumeric string of random capitals memorized to hand out at the drop of a hat?
Apple appears to be solving this problem in iOS 11, according to a report from 9to5Mac. It notes that the upcoming iOS update includes a new Wi-Fi-sharing feature that should save you from digging behind your couch to find out what the password on your router actually is. The function reportedly works simply: if a device running iOS 11 tries to join your Wi-Fi network, your nearby iOS devices  get a pop-up asking if you’d like to share your password. Simply tap the “Send Password” button, and the other device  autofill the password and connect.
9to5Mac notes that the devices need to be close by and unlocked for the feature to work, which should prevent your neighbors from spamming your phone to try and mooch a free ride off your internet.
iOS 11 is expected to release for iPhones and iPads sometime this fall.
Apple revealed iOS 11 at its Worldwide Developers Conference this week, and with it, a welcome array of fixes to annoying iPhone problems. Offload Unused Apps  automatically remove little-used apps to free up space on your phone. Maps has added improvements for when you’re driving, like lane guidance, speed limits, and the ability to silence distractions with Do Not Disturb While Driving. But the one feature perhaps most likely to elicit a “finally!” has largely gone unnoticed: the volume slider no longer intrusively blankets the entire screen.
The biggest change in iOS 11. That nobody has mentioned. The volume indicator no longer obstructs the center of the screen obnoxiously. pic.twitter.com/tE3F4qvkVT
Pointed out on Twitter by user @Turqmelon, the new iOS 11 volume HUD is now neatly tucked in the top-right corner of the screen. It’s much sleeker-looking than its predecessor, which unnecessarily covers video content for a few seconds any time the volume is adjusted. It’s a change that’s been highly requested by users for some time, and it follows in the steps of some third-party apps, such as YouTube and Snapchat, which already removed the clunky default volume indicator in favor of their own, smaller versions. Apple’s new volume HUD look is universal across iOS 11, and so now, after 10 long years, we no longer have to choose between adjusting the volume and... actually watching content.
The public beta of iOS 11 is due to come at the end of June, with a release expected in autumn.
If Apple doesn’t get rid of this volume video blocking crap in iOS 11, I’m switching to Android. pic.twitter.com/H0M1utNRth
Apple is giving users the option to enable much stricter location rules with iOS 11, according to MacRumors. The company began this effort last year by adding a new option to iOS 10 that grants apps access to your location only while they’re actively being used. But this “while in use” setting is up to developers to actually enable.
The vast majority of popular apps did integrate that new feature. Others, however — Uber chief among them — still force iPhone users to choose between always or never providing location data. The latter choice breaks the functionality of an app like Uber, leaving customers with really only one option. Apple seems poised to eliminate this false choice in iOS 11 by making the “while in use” restriction available for every app.
iOS 11 *FORCES* option for GPS access “Only While Using the App” even when apps don’t offer it!Suck it Uber. pic.twitter.com/op1siQ8rZz
Uber tracks a user’s location “from the time of trip request through five minutes after the trip ends, including when the app is in the background.” The company reasons that this is necessary to provide optimal accuracy and customer service. Users weren’t thrilled about the frequent tracking, especially after it was discovered that the app was sometimes requesting location data long after a ride had ended; the company eventually claimed this was due to the optional extension that lets users hail a ride with Apple’s default Maps app.
In April, The New York Times reported on a tense conversation between Apple CEO Tim Cook and Uber’s Travis Kalanick, during which Cook scolded the chief executive and threatened to remove Uber from the App Store for violating Apple’s developer guidelines. That dustup was eventually settled, but Apple’s tightening of location access can easily be read as a reaction to Uber’s tactics.
Other iOS apps on my iPad that make users choose between “always” and “never” for location:
Earlier this week, Apple announced HomePod, a new $350 speaker that’s designed to seamlessly work with all your Apple devices and Apple Music content. But HomePod doesn’t come out until December, which is a long time to wait.
Fortunately, we can cast our eyes back in time to the heady days of 2006, when Apple released the iPod Hi-Fi, a $350 speaker designed to work with all your Apple devices and iTunes content. The Hi-Fi was a huge, white plastic behemoth with a 30-pin iPod dock built into the top for charging and playback. And while it was considered by many to be pricey for what it offered (a comment that, coincidentally, may  apply to HomePod), I personally found it to be a great speaker with big sound.
Apple discontinued the Hi-Fi back in 2007, but you can still snag one used for around $100 to $150. Once you’ve got your hands on the finest speaker 2006 had to offer, here’s what you need to do to get it working with your 2017 iPhone:
As my colleague Sam Byford noted, you can simply plug in any number of modern accessories like an Amazon Echo Dot, Google Chromecast Audio, or Bluetooth adapter to add modern wireless functionality to the Hi-Fi.
Related
This is the boring practical method — it should take all of 10 seconds to set up, and it’s a basically foolproof way to use a Hi-Fi today.
But you’re not here for practical. You want to use the Hi-Fi as Steve Jobs intended: with a docked Apple device charging while playing back musical locally, controlled with a stubby plastic Apple Remote from across the room! Sure, you could use the aux port and a Lighting-to-3.5mm dongle, but this is a charging dock, and by god, we’re going to get this to charge something.
The problem is that there are a couple hurdles we need to get past to put this together. (As a note, my Hi-Fi was stolen a few years back so I haven’t been able to 100 percent verify that this works with current iPhones, but this method did definitely function as late as 2013 with an iPhone 5, and I can’t see why it wouldn’t be valid now.)
First up is the fact that the Hi-Fi is really old, technologically speaking. Not only does the speaker use Apple’s old, 30-pin iPod charger, but it’s so old that the connector only supports Firewire charging, instead of the later generations of iPods, which used a similar physical adapter but used USB. So, the first thing we need is an adapter, like this $14 Scosche one, which allows you to use later, USB charging-based iPod and iPhone devices with older Firewire docks. There are a bunch of adapters floating around out there for this, but since Hi-Fi harkens back to a time when Apple was pushing its Universal Dock system, I find the Scosche adapter works best, since it both clips right into the Hi-Fi, and in turn allows you to clip in more Universal Dock adapters. (Scosche used to make a white one that matched the entire color scheme much better, but it’s been sold out for years.)
So, that gets us to compatibility with any 30-pin iOS device. But we’re not there yet, because Apple discontinued that adapter in favor of the Lightning port in 2012. So we’ll need a 30-pin-to-Lightning adapter from Apple, which still (ridiculously) costs $29, which we’ll connect to the Scosche adapter.
That gets us a working Hi-Fi that can charge an iPhone and play back music. But there’s one last piece since, at this point, we have a fairly tall stack of adapters piled on top of our Hi-Fi here, which isn’t exactly a stable place to put an iPhone. So you’ll need something like the Flybridge, which is basically a $12 piece of plastic that clicks into Apple’s Universal Dock with a space designed to fit the Lightning adapter to support your phone. Click that into the Scosche dock, too, and you’ll be all set!
Everyone who’s booked on a stay on Airbnb likely has a check-in horror story: that one apartment nestled deep inside a confusing, labyrinthian complex, accessible by way of a hard-to-find lock box hidden inside a tall row of shrubbery with a key code buried in an email message you’re having trouble finding. Airbnb knows that its check-in process is inconsistent and, often, not ideal — at least when compared to a standard hotel. So the company is making a big effort to streamline the process and make it less confusing.
Airbnb is building its new process right into its app as an opt-in, step-by-step guide hosts can create using photos and text instructions. Because hosts aren’t always around to help you find your way into an apartment or house, they often rely on attaching some prewritten block of text in a message sent in-app or as an email. These instructions are typically inconsistent from host to host, and are really dependent on how thoughtful the host wants to be.
Now, given this new check-in process, Airbnb  urge hosts to follow its rubric and make detailed guides. The check-in guides   be automatically saved offline within the app, so you can still access them without a data connection. The goal is to “cut down on the number of messages to respond to, copy-pasting or rewriting instructions for every guest,” Airbnb explains in a blog post. “Hosts can answer commonly asked questions once, then rest assured guests’ path to entry  be an easy one.” Airbnb says the new check-in features  arrive later this month for users, guests and hosts, every country the company operates.
Apple might give users more control over their AirPods with the launch of iOS 11. If you currently want to change tracks on your AirPods, you have to double tap to activate Siri and then tell it to skip. That’s obviously not ideal for when you’re outside your house or in a noisy space. But with iOS 11, it’s possible that wearers might be able to double tap on an AirPod to skip to the next track. Double tapping on the other AirPod could go back to the previous song. You can assign this functionality to whatever side you want from your Bluetooth options.
YouTube channel Appsolutely Tech tested this feature and publicized it in the video below. You’ll notice that a tap can  be used to play / pause your music or wake up Siri. Let’s just hope Apple keeps this functionality when it releases the new OS publicly because I know lots of AirPod wearers would would love to use it.


“Welcome to a new world of gods and monsters,” Russell Crowe solemnly intones midway through The Mummy, a modern action remake of Universal Pictures’ 1932 monster-movie classic. It’s a slight variant on a line from Bride Of Frankenstein, another Universal classic, and it’s consciously presented as a tagline for the studio’s new “Dark Universe” franchise. To date, Universal has planned out eight films in the series, in an attempt to forge a modern money-printing machine like the Marvel Cinematic Universe out of its legacy films. Crowe’s character, an update on Robert Louis Stevenson’s Dr. Henry Jekyll, is presented as a gateway to that universe, and a representative of Prodigium, an organization that deals directly with the problems caused by gods and monsters.
He’s , incidentally, an actual character with a story function in The Mummy. But director Alex Kurtzman and his screenwriting team (David Koepp, Christopher McQuarrie, and Dylan Kussman) don’t care as much about that as they do about the big picture. The Mummy is a relatively functional creature-feature movie, packed with oversized action sequences. But it reminds viewers at every turning point that it isn’t a story so much as a prologue, a brand-deposit setup meant to whet appetites for more Dark Universe installations. The approach may pay off in the long run, but in the short term, it feels like sitting down for a movie, and getting a feature-length trailer instead.
Tom Cruise stars as Nick Morton, an Army long-range reconnaissance scout who’s in it for the money, not the military. Along with whiny, reluctant buddy Chris Vail (The New Girl’s Jake Johnson), Nick takes advantage of his considerable operating freedom to sneak away from his assigned duties and loot priceless antiquities from ancient burial sites.
But as a wearyingly long prologue explains, an Egyptian princess named Ahmanet (Star Trek Beyond’s Sofia Boutella) once made a shady deal with the god Set, and was buried alive in Mesopotamia as punishment, far from her homeland. Nick’s latest reckless grave-robbing venture in Iraq ends with him, Chris, and weirdly undefined but bossy Jenny Halsey (Annabelle Wallis) in Ahmanet’s long-hidden tomb, where they ignore a series of warning signs and evil portents in their rush to get Ahmanet’s sarcophagus out of the country.
Before long, the semi-revived Ahmanet is a CGI effect lurching around London, draining victims of life and turning them into comically fragile, shrieking zombies. She’s specifically attached herself to Nick, the chosen one she plans to sacrifice to incarnate her lover/master Set into the world. That means getting rid of Jenny, who’s formed an underdeveloped, implausible relationship with Nick, and it means crossing Prodigium, an organization with a vested interest in not letting revived Egyptian monster-gods roam around free. It  means a series of chases and explosions, as Ahmanet works her  on the world largely through mass vermin attacks and magical sandstorms.
Some of these ideas come from the 1999 Brendan Fraser Mummy re-imagining, which was  fond of snarling, anthropomorphized sand-clouds and waves of computer-generated creepy-crawlies. One recurring story conceit, involving a smirking corpse guiding Nick around London, is borrowed from An American Werewolf In London. There’s a little bit of Sam Raimi’s Evil Dead series in Ahmanet’s zombies, which aren’t particularly effective fighters, but are persistent enough to give a protagonist pause even when they’re broken down into flailing parts.
But a fair bit of the new Mummy does come from the 1932 original, with all the genders swapped. The film’s most interesting idea,  present in the 1932 version, is that Nick and Ahmanet become mentally connected as soon as she identifies him as her intended lover/victim, and he’s deeply torn between going to her and staying with Jenny and the land of the living. (Just as in the 1932 version, the living love-interest option is by far the blander, more boring one, while the dead love interest has a soulful otherworldly appeal. Plus the promise of immense power.) Turning Tom Cruise, one of the world’s most famous action stars, into a swooning victim of a much older, stronger, and more capable force — one that routinely beats the ever-living crap out of him throughout the film — is an unusual narrative choice. And it’s one of several that pushes The Mummy away from the most standard action beats of a modern action film.
But most of those choices — including a curtailed “Glad that worked out!” ending and the extensive focus on Prodigium — point toward Universal’s efforts to make The Mummy a “welcome to a world” prelude rather than a stand-alone adventure. Nick, Chris, and Jenny are all frustratingly thin characters, and Kurtzman’s story doesn’t seem to care about any of the details around them. (Past the opening firefight, for instance, the script entirely forgets that Nick is in the military, and might have responsibilities and resources of his own.) Nick theoretically has a redemption story, as a smug, self-serving thief who falls in love and discovers his own capacity for self-sacrifice, but it’s a matter of a few scattered lines and a couple of pinched looks from Cruise. “Somewhere in there, fighting to get out, is a good man,” Jenny tells Nick at one point. The utterly blank look she gets back isn’t the reaction of a man struggling with complex inner demons, it’s the response of an actor thinking, “Wait, is this guy supposed to be an anti-hero? Did we have a scene establishing that?”
Ahmanet herself gets better treatment from the film. She’s motivated by lust for power, but like Boris Karloff in the 1932 Mummy, she still comes with a creepy appeal, a combination of the usual allure of the unrestrained villain, and the draw of being the strongest personality in the story. Boutella makes her part victim and part beast, and gives her a sexual tension with Cruise that’s considerably more compelling than his nonexistent chemistry with Wallis. That approach alone signals that Universal may still understand the basic draw of its monsters, or virtually any monsters — the way they channel the human id, the way they act unrestrained, their freedom of expression and movement. Ahmanet gets much more of a backstory and a personality than anyone else onscreen, but she  gives Boutella a chance to play with complexities of drive and intention that no one else in the film has. This is, first and foremost, a movie about a monster, not the man trying to deal with her.
Kurtzman largely keeps The Mummy’s action scenes clear and tightly paced, with a couple of standouts in a face-off against Jekyll’s alter-ego Hyde, and a desperate underwater sequence near the film’s climax. He  injects some light energy in the form of deadpan humor, accomplished via careful editing timing as much as anything in the performances. When he cuts from a scene of violent chaos to Nick and Jenny in shock afterward, sitting and pondering what their lives have come to, it’s a surprisingly funny moment. When she argues that he’s a good man because he gave her the only parachute during a plane crash, he tells her, “I thought there was another one” with such pained, intense sincerity that it comes across as hilarious. Judging from the opening tomb-robbing action and some early banter, Kurtzman and company seem to want to position Nick as an Indiana Jones figure, a tough man with a vulnerable streak and a knack for straight-faced knockabout wit. Instead, he comes across as heavier and duller, frequently stymied by events around him. But they find a little humor in that haplessness, too. It’s not the broader goofery of the 1999 Mummy, but it’s a relief from mountains of exposition and thudding lines like “Evil  never rest. It  call to him.”
Given that The Mummy only barely works as a movie on its own account, the question becomes whether it works as a franchise-starter. And the answer is that while its franchise elements are foregrounded, they still aren’t terribly compelling. Crowe doesn’t get any more development than the other characters — the screenwriters clearly feel that Jekyll is a known quantity, his history already established in Stevenson’s book, so there’s no point in fleshing him out further. Prodigium is a story hook waiting for a background, a clear organizing principle for the planned creature features to come. When Nick gets dragged through one of the group’s bases, and the camera pauses to linger on a fanged skull, it might as well have “The Dark Universe’s Dracula, coming soon” printed on it in neon colors. And the movie doesn’t have a finale so much as a voiceover promise that the story  continue down the road.
Taken as a pilot episode for a series, The Mummy is a reasonably fleet introduction to some basic story principles and some ongoing characters. And at least it suggests the film series to come is intended to be aware of its roots, and aware of an audience that demonstrably enjoys witty dialogue and intense action. But nothing about this movie suggests a fresh or unique approach to franchise storytelling or contemporary monster movies. As an introduction, it’s functional. As a template for future films, it’s a warning that Dark Universe filmmakers are going to need to think about the stories they’re telling as much as the stories they’re planning.
Samsung has updated its J line of low-cost smartphones to more closely resemble the recently released Galaxy S8. The J3, which has already been released in the US on AT&T for $179, comes with a 5-inch HD display, Exynos 7570 quad-core 1.4GHz processor, 2GB of RAM, 16GB of storage, and a 2,400mAh battery.
The J5 and J7 both come with HD super AMOLED displays (5.2-inch and 5.5-inch, respectively); 16GB of storage, expandable up to 256GB with a microSD card; quad-core 1.6GHz processors; and 13MP front and rear cameras.
The J7 is fitted with 3GB of RAM compared to 2GB in the J5, and all three devices run Android Nougat. The J5  be available in Europe in June for €279, while the J7  hit European shelves in July for €339. (Currently there are no release dates for the J5 or J7 in the US.) Despite being available already in the States, the J3 won’t make its way to Europe until August, when it’ll retail for €219.
All three devices  be available in black or gold when they ship.
Airbnb has a history of proactively working with its hosts to offer temporary housing in order to help those displaced by crisis. When Superstorm Sandy hit the East Coast in 2012, it created the Disaster Response Tool. Earlier this year, the company offered free housing to those in limbo due to Trump’s executive orders that suspended refugee admission and travel to the US from seven majority-Muslim nations. Today, the home-sharing company is launching Open Homes, a platform that aims to unite and simplify its humanitarian efforts under one program to let people host refugees, evacuees, and others in times of need, for free.
Airbnb lets anyone sign up for Open Homes and set parameters for how they choose to participate (days the home is available, number of people to host, etc.). It currently lists two primary causes for hosts to support — refugees and evacuees — and hosts  then be matched with trusted organizations like the International Rescue Committee (IRC) that specialize in these areas of need. The organizations are responsible for vetting the individuals they place, and then making the bookings.
Open Homes solves many of the logistical problems Airbnb has faced in trying to help refugees in the past, most notably the manual matching between hosts and those who are displaced. Airbnb’s approach is not the first to match those who need aid with housing — joining the ranks of organizations like France’s SIGNA and UK-based Refugees at Home — but it is the most cohesive and simplified approach the company has presented to date. It  allows for a faster process to match those in need with homes, meaning fewer missed opportunities to help in real time.
As of now, there are 6,000 listings available for use on Open Homes around the world, half of which are offered by individuals who are not existing Airbnb hosts, but simply have a desire to help. Airbnb’s five-year goal is to provide free short-term housing to 100,000 people in need.
Ant-Man is easily one of the weirdest Marvel superheroes, thanks to his ability to grow, shrink, and, of course, communicate telepathically with ants. Those gifts usually lead to wacky hijinks. Disney XD is set to air six shorts starring the superhero this weekend, and the ones we’ve seen capture the character’s quirkiness perfectly.
Each short, animated by French filmmakers Ugo Bienvenu and Kevin Manach, stars Scott Lang (the Ant-Man from the 2015 film) trying to get himself out of some ridiculous jam. Voiced by Josh Keaton (Spectacular Spider-Man), Scott has to face down Yellowjacket while trying to get baking soda for his daughter’s science fair experiment, or partner with the Wasp to take on an alien invasion.
In one short, he brings down the villainous Egghead (his actual name!) while his suit is shorting out.
The shorts have a Silver Age, Jack Kirby-esque feel to them, thanks to the sharp animation style and Lang’s constant quips. Lang is a natural swashbuckler here; the character seems way more comfortable in the suit than he did in the Ant-Man film.
Three more Ant-Man shorts from Bienvenu and Manach  air over the weekend. These aren’t the only great Marvel shorts to come from France. Last year, Marvel Animation started moving projects to the country to take advantage of the French national film commission’s tax rebates for international studios. Filmmaker Arnaud Delord was handed a Rocket and Groot short series, and his work has been nothing short of hilarious:

For the first time ever, astronomers have seen a distant star warp the light of another star, making it seem as though the object changed its position in the sky. It’s a huge discovery — since even Albert Einstein didn’t think such a thing would be possible to observe. Now that we’ve proved Einstein wrong (but  right), astronomers hope to spot even more events just like this, as well as use these occurrences to learn more about the stars in our Universe.
Einstein first predicted gravitational microlensing in his theory of general relativity. It works kind of like how it sounds: it’s gravity acting like a lens that can manipulate light. Basically, supermassive objects — such as stars and black holes — warp space and time around them. This warped space-time can then act like a magnifying glass, changing the path that light takes through the Universe. Specifically, microlensing can occur when one star — the “source” — passes directly behind another star — the “lens” — along our line of sight from Earth. The gravity from the lens warps the light from the source, making it appear brighter and slightly distorted.
These events require stars that are very far apart to line up perfectly. That’s why Einstein once wrote that "there is no hope of observing this phenomenon directly." Our telescope technology has become far more sophisticated than in Einstein’s day — which is what allowed us to observe something he thought we’d never see. In 2014, a group of astronomers using NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope spotted a rare type of microlensing, when a dense white dwarf star passed in front of another star thousands of light-years away. The stars weren’t exactly aligned, but they were close enough that the white dwarf made it seem like the background star performed a small loop in the sky. “It looks like the white dwarf pushed it out of the way,” Terry Oswalt, an astronomer at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University who was not involved in this discovery but wrote a perspective piece in Science, tells The Verge. “That’s not what happened, of course. It just looks like that.”
The astronomers  used the apparent movement of the background star to measure the mass of the passing white dwarf, a novel technique detailed in a paper published today in Science. And they say this isn’t the last time they’ll make measurements like this either. Now that they’ve figured out how to spot these kinds of lensing events, they’re hoping to find even more with new ground- and space-based telescopes that are coming online soon. “This opens up a new field,” Kailash Sahu, the astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute who led this discovery, tells The Verge. “Nobody had tried this before, so it’s a new technique. And it gives us a very unique and direct metric for measuring the mass of a star.”
Microlensing is just one of many types of effects that occur when a huge object passes in front of a bright one. Whole galaxies have been spotted warping the light from other galaxies before. And sometimes, a foreground object can even break apart the light from a background object, creating four different images in what’s known as an “Einstein cross.”
Microlensing is a special type of this phenomenon. In this case, a star passing behind another object is focused and amplified into something that looks much brighter than it actually is. It’s become popular in the last 20 years in the search for exoplanets and dark matter, since it can temporarily brighten distant objects that would otherwise seem dim.
In fact, Einstein predicted that if two stars were to perfectly align, the background star would appear as a bright ring around the star in the front. We haven’t seen this perfect ring from two stars outside our Solar System yet. But this discovery is the closest thing that we’ve ever seen — the stars weren’t perfectly aligned, so we saw this weird shift in position instead.
We’ve only ever seen this type of movement before with our own Sun, during an eclipse. The Sun has enough gravity to bend the light of background stars, says Oswalt. “The catch, of course, is the Sun is so bright you can’t see stars next to it in the sky, even though they’re there.” So during the 1919 total solar eclipse, astronomers measured the position of stars next to the Sun when it was covered up by the Moon, and compared the eclipse measurements to the stars’ positions at night. Sure enough, the stars seemed to have changed their locations, indicating they had been warped when the Sun was present.
Nearly 100 years later, no one has seen a star change the position of another star quite like that before. But for many years now, Sahu and his team have been searching for stars in the sky that may possibly align and create this effect outside our Solar System. To do this, he identified 5,000 stars that make the largest sweeping movements through the night sky. “If they have a large space motion, then the chance they  come close to another background star is high,” says Sahu.
After making enough projections, Sahu and his team identified around three candidates that may causing a microlensing event. One of those was a white dwarf named Stein 2051 B, which was expected to pass in front of another star in March 2014. With Hubble, the astronomers observed this white dwarf multiple times before and after the crossing, capturing the relative movement of the background star. And sure enough, the more distant star shifted its position ever so slightly as the white dwarf passed by. “It was like trying to measure this little firefly moving across a quarter next to a bright light bulb,” says Sahu.
But those tiny relative movements were enough to tell the team exactly how massive Stein 2051 B is. Until now, figuring out the mass of a white dwarf has been difficult. These objects, thought to be the leftover remnants of dead stars, are very small, making them hard to detect and analyze. Before this paper, only three white dwarfs had their masses precisely measured. Astronomers even tried to estimate the mass of Stein 2051 B, but they thought the white dwarf’s mass was extremely low, making it fairly exotic for this kind of object. The microlensing event paints a different story: Stein 2051 B’s mass seems to be fairly normal.
Measuring the masses of stars this way could be much more precise than other techniques, since it involves observing the effect that one star has on another, Sahu says. There could be more measurements like this headed our way soon. Another one of the candidates Sahu identified was Proxima Centauri, the closest star to our Sun. The team watched as the star passed in front of a background star, and the results of those observations could be released soon.
But there are even more telescopes coming online that could be used to spot this phenomena. The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope being built in Chile  eventually provide super detailed images of the Universe, and NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope  be able to peer deeper into space than ever before. All of this equipment and more could be used to predict when another microlensing event  occur.
“These surveys  be measuring a billion or more stars’ motions,” says Oswalt. “So these kinds of events can be predicted now. The search is on.”

It's impossible to miss one of Apple's biggest ambitions for the HomePod: control over your home, and a central placement within it.
It's right there in the name. And yet, the way Apple is trying to set the HomePod apart from direct competitors like Google's Home and Amazon's Echo, the HomePod ends up positioned oddly far from what seems like such an obvious goal.
In case you missed its announcement Monday, the HomePod is Apple's first shot at a smart speaker. It can be used alone or wirelessly synced up with other speakers, and it has built-in Siri for answering questions and taking commands.
But there are three things Google and Amazon do with their smart speakers that Apple doesn't: they make products that are discreet, they sell them at a more affordable price, and they put a heavy emphasis on what their digital assistants can do.
The first two of those go hand in hand. Google's Home and Amazon's Echo Dot (and to a lesser extent, the full-sized Echo) are small enough that they can be slipped into corners or placed unobtrusively on tables, counters, and nightstands. They aren't necessarily attractive (though the Home can look oddly cute, like a baby speaker that's yet to finish growing), but they're mostly ignorable.
With their lower prices — $130 for the Home, $50 for the Dot, $180 for the full Echo — it's  much more realistic for someone to buy a few and place them throughout the house. That's encouraged, too, because both Google and Amazon highlight how useful it is to have immediate access to their voice assistants. And that's being enhanced with new features, like both speakers getting the ability to make calls.
Being able to put these devices in multiple rooms is critical to delivering on the promise of an ever-present assistant and creating the voice-controlled home dreamt up by sci-fi movies. They're an easy way to turn lights on and off, set alarms, or adjust the climate. But that convenience vanishes if you can't get voice control in the rooms you end up using the most.
At $350, putting a HomePod in multiple rooms of your house isn't a very appealing prospect. And while Apple has quite possibly made the most attractive speaker of the bunch, its speaker  takes up a bit more room. The Echo is a utility, designed to be ignored. But the HomePod is a speaker, meant to stand out as one.
There  aren't as many reasons to spread the HomePod throughout many rooms. Yes, it can be a hub for controlling smart home equipment. But Apple seems to be making its digital assistant a secondary focus, unlike its competitors. Siri  be limited to specific categories that Apple thinks make sense for the HomePod — weather, reminders, unit conversions, and so on — which means you aren't going to be ordering a pizza, hailing a cab, or making a dinner reservation all by voice.
And it doesn't seem like that deemphasis is entirely because Siri has fallen behind its competitors. If that were the case, Apple could have used Monday's announcement — at an event expressly for developers — to offer a way to code deeper, more valuable interactions with Siri. Instead, it didn't say a word about any of that with relation to the HomePod. It did expand Siri's functionality slightly, but those features were limited to iPhones and iPads.
Apple is trying to tap into its heritage as the iPod company to make a product that's music first, assistant second, despite the name giving the two equal billing. And while there are plenty of good reasons to like the HomePod if you're looking for a speaker, there are a lot fewer rooms in the house that need one, which means fewer places for Apple to sell them into.
That makes Apple's smart home play a bit more distant than it initially seemed. The HomePod can deliver the same type of home-controlling functions as Google's Home and Amazon's Echo, but it isn't priced or sized to wind up in every room. Like every element of Apple's smart home strategy so far, the function is there if you want it, but Apple doesn't really expect you to use it.
That's a reasonable position given how niche the smart home market remains. BI Intelligence recently found that only about 10 percent of homes are using smart home tech right now, with more and more expected to join in the coming years. Apple has always shot for the higher end of the market, while Google and Amazon have always shot for mass adoption. So the diverging strategies make sense.
Even so, Apple really does seem to be interested in the smart home market. Its smart home platform, HomeKit, has received regular updates over the past few years, from support for new types of products to a built-in home control app on iOS. And while Apple hasn’t made any HomeKit accessories (aside from, perhaps, the HomePod), it receives licensing revenue for every unit its partners make, which is a pretty good reason for Apple to want this space to take off.
Plus, as a very notable added bonus, every voice query going through Siri is one that isn’t going through Google Assistant or Alexa. Google clearly sees voice as a major component to the future of search, and that’s why it’s been so aggressive about getting into this nascent space.
By going only for the higher end of the market, Apple continues ceding some early smart home turf to its competitors, despite a wide-open opportunity. Apple's HomeKit platform is the easiest option for someone who wants to start tinkering with smart home tech, and a smart speaker expands that ease of use — but only so far as it can actually get into the spaces people live.
Speakers come in all kinds of shapes and sizes, and so do most of Apple's products, so it seems reasonable to expect the HomePod line to grow and evolve over time. But until that happens, Apple is allowing Google and, primarily right now, Amazon to establish themselves as the market's leaders. For a brand-new platform that, like smartphones, could eventually be at the core of how people interact with all kinds of products and services, that's a big risk.
Apple just wrapped up one of the most hardware-focused software conferences ever. Aside from updating existing products like the MacBook with new Kaby Lake processors, and announcing the new Siri-enabled HomePod speaker, Apple decided to use WWDC to please its pro users with new iMac and iMac Pro desktop computers.
The new iMac Pro won’t ship until December, but the speed-bumped iMacs are something pro users can buy today. It's been a while since we've upgraded the iMacs in our offices, and we're currently in the midst of a switch over to 4K video editing. Combine those two factors and you can guess that we spend a lot of time staring at progress bars.
So in the short time we had, we wanted to focus on the performance of one of the updated iMacs and see how it handles 4K video editing. I set one up at my normal workstation at The Verge just a couple days ago, and have been editing 4K video (and large photo files) since then. And the difference in performance has been instantly evident.
Before we dive into that, let’s talk about the hardware. The new 21.5-inch iMac has a base price of $1,099, but ones with a larger display and more power can cost as much as $5,299. The 27-inch review unit I’ve been testing costs $2,899. It comes with the Intel Core i7 4.2 GHz chip, 500GB of SSD storage, and 16GB of RAM. If I were to buy this machine myself, I’d probably add more RAM since I tend to multitask a lot. The storage space is less important to me, since I like working off external drives. Almost any drive would work for me except the 256GB model. It’s kind of like having a 16GB iPhone.
Most importantly for this first look, the graphics card in this iMac is the Radeon Pro 580 (with 8GB VRAM). It is the best graphics card you can get for the 27-inch 5K model. If you already think you need something better than that, you might as well just wait for the iMac Pro, the Mac Pro (expected sometime next year), or switch to Windows and deal with the transition.
For comparison, the iMac I was previously using had 3.2GHz i5 processor with 32GB of RAM and a much, much weaker graphics card: an AMD Radeon R9 M380 with 2GB of VRAM.
Aesthetically, the 2017 iMac looks identical to the old one. The back logo is the same size, the power button is in the exact same spot, and so are the fans at the bottom. There's just one external difference: the Thunderbolt 2 ports are replaced with USB-C ports that support Thunderbolt 3. Although I know some people are excited for this transition, I find these ports extremely annoying. Most of the external hard drives I use are Thunderbolt 2, forcing me once again to live that unavoidable #donglelife.
I was really blown away the first time I ever used a 5K screen; the difference was immediately apparent. But I didn’t really get the same impression with this screen. I’m assuming I’ve gotten used to the resolution at this point. Honestly, I  don’t see a major difference when it comes to its brightness. Yes, the screen pops and has vibrant and accurate colors, but I spend most of my time editing at around 70 percent of brightness anyway. Although I wish the screen was a bit less reflective.
That said, editing photos on this computer was a joy. The processing speed and accurate colors  helped, making it a fun experience. Seeing the changes happen almost instantaneously helped accelerate the editing process, but it  just made me experiment with photos more, which for a creative type does make a difference. It’s worth noting that I haven’t calibrated the monitor and have used the default color space “iMac,” which I’m assuming most of you  use anyway, and you won’t regret it.
Currently, I’m editing a Verge video that I can’t disclose just yet. It was shot with a Sony A7S II and a C100 camera. One shoots 4K, while the other captures 1080p. I’m editing in the latest version of Adobe Premiere Pro CC 2017, and I have decided to edit off of the internal SSD drive without any scratch drives, just to make it a bit more challenging on the machine. I’ve  set my previews to max render quality for the same reason... and I kept After Effects and Lightroom open in the background… and had around 15 browser tabs opened at all time for any procrastinating I felt like doing.
The final project  be exported in 1080p, but I still wanted to edit, color, and render 4K footage to see how the iMac would handle it. So far, it’s been flawless. No major lags, the rendering has gone very smoothly, and the export times were remarkably shorter. The faster rendering was noticeable even on a short, two-minute video.
So far I've only heard the fans revving up once during the export process, which took about minute and a half on the new iMac. I brought the same project over to my old workstation and the estimated export time was already almost a minute longer: 2:20 minutes compared to 1:30. The final export on the old iMac actually took a little bit over three minutes. Even applying a simple stabilizer on one of the clips took twice as long on the old iMac. That said, this was a relatively small video, just 193MB in size. Obviously, we’d have to spend more time with this machine to test it out to its limits. We haven’t had a chance to edit or watch VR content on it yet, or do extensive motion graphics on it.
If you do a lot of video or photo editing, and really don't want to wait for the iMac Pro models coming in the next year, you’ll likely be happy with what this new iMac has to offer. While I haven’t spent as much time editing on it yet as I inevitably , and can’t weigh in on how wear and tear and extended use  affect it over time, over the past couple days the new iMac was able to handle short, 4K videos and professional-grade photo editing without any lags, glitches, or overall frustration.
If you have an earlier (non-Pro) iMac and are wondering if you should upgrade, that all depends on your specific needs; but it is worth at least comparing your current specs with the upgraded lineup. And if you think this upgrade would be minor compared to what you have now, then you might want to wait until the iMac Pro, which  offer a boost in specs but   cost nearly twice as much.
Otherwise, for $2,899 you can get a fast new iMac that  make you feel like you can get most projects done more efficiently. Speaking of which, I should probably go back and finish that video before my deadline.
Photography by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge
There was way more hardware news at WWDC this week than I think anybody expected. And for small laptop partisans, one of the quietest announcements might have been one of the best: you can now get the MacBook with a Core i5 or i7 processor.
The review model Apple provided us with is the base model with a Core m3 processor. After just a day of using it, I’m not going to opine on its performance — especially since the 2016 MacBook I have to compare it to is a 2016 core m7.
The big question a lot of people are asking is whether the little MacBook is finally over that power hump that’s kept users from switching over to it. I sadly cannot answer that for you, but my hunch is that the basic calculus isn’t going to change. If you need speed, get a MacBook Pro or a Windows PC or maybe even a MacBook Air. If you can live with a single USB-C port (and all the dongles that entails), and don’t need a ton of power, stay tuned for a full review.
In the meantime, I can tell you a little about the keyboard. Beyond the processor, it’s the only other thing Apple’s changed. The keys have a slightly updated butterfly mechanism compared to last year’s model — they’re more similar to the keys on the MacBook Pro now. That doesn’t mean that they have a ton more key travel, though, because they feel about the same to me. I think I prefer the newer keyboard; it’s a little less clacky and the keys feel a little softer as you press down, but there’s still a satisfying click when you hit them. The finish is a little more matte, and Apple added the proper symbols above the Control and Option keys.
That’s a lot of words for a keyboard that, like the processors, isn’t likely to change the basic equation for most people. It’s slightly better than before. I like it, but then I am  a fan of the keyboard on last year’s MacBook (and many people are not).
One other thing, since you’re here: I need to talk to you a little bit about Intel’s processor naming conventions, because they are unnecessarily confusing. The chips in these MacBooks are part of a new family of processors from Intel called Kaby Lake, which are iteratively better than their predecessor processors, called Skylake. And when Intel made the switch over, it changed how it named things.
What you need to know is that the Core i5 and Core i7 options on the skinny little MacBooks are not the more powerful Core i5 and i7 processors you might be thinking of. They’re less powerful than the processors you can get on the MacBook Pro models.
In some ways, this makes sense: these new Kaby Lake chips are able to turbo up to some pretty impressive speeds. But in most ways, this is just annoying dissembling from Intel that everybody else is forced to play along with because Intel gets to name its things whatever it chooses. The secret to distinguishing these chips, as Jake Kastrenakes wrote last September, is to look for the full product code for the processors. If it’s a “Y” series instead of a “U,” it’s the lighter-power version.
For the record, here are the exact processor models shipping on these MacBooks:
And here’s how Apple describes these processor options when you go to buy them:
Enjoy great performance from seventh-generation Intel Core processors. Choose the speed and processor you want for your MacBook.
This MacBook model includes the dual-core Intel Core i5 at 1.3GHz with Turbo Boost speeds up to 3.2GHz. For faster performance, choose the optional dual-core Intel Core i7 processor for 1.4GHz of processing power and Turbo Boost speeds up to 3.6GHz.
Why did Intel do all this with the names? When Jake asked last year, this was the answer:
“We have  made significant performance improvements” to the Core m line “such that both form factor and performance lines were blurring,” Intel’s Scott Massey [wrote] in an email to The Verge.
But I have a different theory:
Intel's marketing strategy is forcing you to google Intel chips for 4 hours to understand what Intel is doing; increasing Intel impressions

Mophie’s charge force cases have been known for making it easier for people to wirelessly charge their phones at their desk or in the car using magnetic mounts. But now you’ll be able to wirelessly charge your smartphone anywhere you want, thanks to the new charge force powerstation mini.
The portable battery pack magnetically connects to Mophie’s charge force and juice pack cases, which are available for the iPhone 6 & 7 (Plus as well) and the Samsung Galaxy S7 & S8 (Edge and Plus, too). The powerstation mini is essentially a 3,000mAh battery with magnets, which fully charge every phone it’s compatible with, sans the S8 Plus and S7 Edge, which come with 3,500mAh and 3,600mAh batteries, respectively.
If you already have a juice pack or charge force case, the $49 powersation mini is probably a good purchase, but if you aren’t already in the Mophie ecosystem, it’ll cost you at least $100 to get involved, and that’s not including the other wireless charging products like the base and desk mount that most people  want.
The Mophie charge force powerstation mini is available for $49 from Mophie’s website today.
In May 2016, a celebrity couple went through a difficult breakup. Following the public relations guidebook, they formalized an official statement, hitting all the familiar notes. “Everybody thinks everything’s perfect, that we have a perfect life,” they said, “and it’s really not.”
The split, and subsequent damage control, seemed ordinary enough, as far as celebrity heartbreak goes. Except for one thing: the couple, Jesse Wellens and Jeana Smith, didn’t make the announcement on the cover of a tabloid, or through a publicist. It was on YouTube. And what followed was a flurry of gossip coverage produced not on Entertainment Tonight or TMZ, but on a collective of amateur YouTube channels, broadcasting breathlessly from bedroom studios.
As YouTubers have drawn massive audiences by documenting their lives online, a second tier of YouTube has naturally emerged: the YouTube tabloid. For years, intra-YouTube drama has been documented exhaustively and almost exclusively on YouTube itself. There’s little crossover into the real world. YouTube’s gossip ecosystem exists like a world parallel to our own — a little spinning globe of YouTube celebrities, YouTube rumors, and the people who watch.
Even after their breakup, Wellens and Smith still co-run the popular YouTube channel BFvsGF, where they compete against each other in challenges like who can drink the most soda and who can train a cat. They have more than 9.4 million subscribers.
In their breakup statement — which, with nearly 14 million views, is still the channel’s most popular video — the pair admit they were reluctant to go public with the news. “There’s gonna be so many people who come to this video, and they don’t care about us,” Smith says. “They just want gossip and drama, they want to capitalize off of it."
On YouTube, drama is guaranteed to get clicks, and no one understands that better than YouTubers themselves. That doesn’t necessarily mean vloggers are scrambling to get themselves involved in the next YouTube scandal. An emerging class of tabloid reporters online have realized they can capitalize on the clicks just as easily from the outside, by creating gossip-specific channels. Like the magazine and TV tabloids that paved their way, these channels have become the de facto record of YouTube’s celebrity class. Their tuned-in hosts track the site’s main players and their supporting characters diligently, and profit from an audience eager to hear their perspectives.
As it has for game reviewers, beauty bloggers, and comics, YouTube has leveled the playing field for the tabloid reporter. Most of the popular channels are operated by amateurs. All you need to become a gossip sleuth, they’ve proven, is a YouTube channel, time, and a lot of enthusiasm.
If this sounds familiar, it’s because the gossip-vlogger model evolved from the popularity of the online gossip media network, TMZ — another relative upstart to the tabloid industry. In both form and style, TMZ set a precedent for its YouTube contemporaries.
In 2014, BuzzFeed reporter Anne Helen Peterson wrote that TMZ was a “unique and controversial mix of scandal mongering and investigative journalism.” She notes that the publication never covers feel-good events like red carpets or weddings, and instead chooses to focus on scandals, fights, and embarrassments. Peterson reports that TMZ’s manic headline style emerged in 2006, about a year after its launch, because readers seemed to prefer the style to straightforward headlines.
In recent years, the brand has honed a digital language, hawking headlines like “KATE HUDSON Fashion Line Ex-Employee Sues …I WAS FIRED FOR GOING TO REHAB!” The syntax feels like it was constructed solely to appeal to the basest parts of the human brain and search engines. The site found success by catering to this kind of clickbait-reader, and by covering celebrities with a speed print mags couldn’t compete with. But now TMZ has a new challenger — at least when it comes to an appetite for drama — in YouTube channels.
In an interview with Nylon about how fame has changed in the past decade, former Hills reality star Spencer Pratt says, “Everyone is a celebrity now. Back [in the 2000s], you were either on a television show or you were in all the tabloids, and those were the two ways you could find fame unless you were a well-known musician or actor.”
But that double-track has expanded into a massive highway, thanks to self-publishing tools like YouTube and other social media platforms. And so the evolutionary trait of YouTube tabloids is granularity. With hundreds of aspiring gossip-hounds combing the platform for drama — down to the happenings of tiny subcommunities — it might not make sense for a single publisher to invest time in a competition.
TMZ pioneered this granular, obsessive coverage when it came to reality stars and D-list celebrities. Now YouTube tabloids comb the internet for gossip about YouTube pranksters, vegans, and amateur food reviewers.
There’s too much drama on YouTube to keep up with, even for people deeply embedded in the community. Too many relationships. Too many fans. Too much off-camera action. As a result, YouTube tabloids have diversified to serve distinct audiences. The biggest differentiators of gossip channels are the hosts. Philip DeFranco tries to position himself as an objective, buttoned-up talk show host, even though his eponymous show is all about his take on the biggest names in YouTube drama. He has 5.4 million subscribers. (For comparison, TMZ reaches around 3.2 million people each month, according to the data analytics firm Quantcast.) Scarce, with 2.8 million followers, sometimes intercuts YouTube drama stories with clips of video game play. Keemstar is the YouTuber behind the show DramaAlert, a one-stop-shop for all YouTube-related in-fighting. His channel has more than 1.8 million subscribers. Smaller niches have comparably sized channels. Sanders Kennedy, with 173,000 subscribers, and Karina Kaboom, with just 55,000, both focus on the drama of beauty vloggers.
Each of these channels is packaged to appeal to a specific kind of viewer. DeFranco’s The Philip DeFranco Show and Keemstar’s DramaAlert are styled after anchored news shows. Keemstar has an opening sequence with a spinning-globe logo; DeFranco sits, late-night-style, on a couch, as he comments on the week’s news. Their videos are usually broken into segments, but if something major happens — like when Casey Neistat announced he was ending his daily vlog — they’ll dedicate an entire video to it.
Keemstar’s platform might be modern, but his method is classic tabloid. He tends to model the vocal gymnastics of ‘90s shock jocks, stretching his vowels as if every word he says could be “KA-blam!” His sources, when he has them, are often anonymous. He moves quickly from one rumor or beef to the next, giving viewers just enough information to understand his caustic burns.
Recent DramaAlert titles have flagrantly swiped TMZ’s style:
“Andy Milonakis vs EpicFiveTV #DramaAlert Social Climber EXPOSED!”
“PewDiePie was GAY But Changed His Mind #DramaAlert YouTube Trending Page EXPOSED!”
“Sam Pepper & Zoie burgher Upset some Fans!” #DramaAlert Banana Girl & Twitch Fails!
Beauty-gossip vloggers like Kennedy and Kaboom are working under more rigid thematic constraints — they’re not going to make a video about Casey Neistat, no matter what he does — but sometimes constraint can be a useful curation device. Although Kennedy does document various beauty-vlogger tiffs, he spends a lot of time focusing on legal issues between vloggers and makeup companies. In a video about a cosmetics company filing a dispute against Jeffree Star and MannyMUA over the use of a logo, Kennedy reads a tweet by Star that says “Stop hyping up drama.” Kennedy looks at the camera, laughs, and says, “I’m sorry, but this is my job.”
“YouTubers are becoming basically celebrities,” Sanders told The Verge. “These influencers are signing contracts with makeup companies and technology companies for millions of dollars these days. I see them as a new form of celebrity, so why not talk about them like celebrities?”
A channel’s popularity often comes down to viewer preference. Gossip fans are overwhelmed with options, given how quickly the mini-industry has ballooned over the past decade. Keemstar didn’t launch Drama Alert until 2014 (seven years after The Philip DeFranco Show first aired) but Keemstar’s fan base grew much more rapidly than DeFranco’s. In just 10 months, Drama Alert had more than 300,000 subscribers, according to We The Unicorns.
The big-name players in the tabloid industry still aren’t participating in the YouTube drama market. Glossy tabloids like InTouch and US Weekly seem reluctant to move aggressively into the world of internet celebrity. Even on Us Weekly’s YouTube channel, where nü-celebrity coverage might be more palatable, the tabloid sticks to Katie Holmes, Kristen Bell, and the Kardashians.
US Weekly isn’t alone in avoiding YouTuber coverage, online or off. Star Magazine’s recent YouTube uploads are about Prince Harry, Zayn Malik, and Kourtney Kardashian. OK! Magazine did recently publish a story about the Total Divas star, WWE wrestler, and YouTuber Nikki Bella — but only to announce her engagement to WWE wrestler John Cena. In Touch Weekly, which tends to cover reality show stars like A-listers, has only mentioned YouTubers when their star power moves them off-platform — like when makeup vlogger MannyMUA became the first-ever male brand ambassador for Maybelline. In Touch passed on a request for comment.
It’s difficult to say whether tabloids  ever catch on to the YouTube audience, or if they even want to. “I don’t see it as terribly competitive at this point,” Steve Jones, co-founder of the Association of Internet Researchers and University of Illinois at Chicago professor, says of the two markets. “[YouTube gossip] seems more like an add-on if you’re interested specifically in these folks. It seems like a way to hear another group of voices, rather than compete directly [with tabloids].”
But even if YouTube vloggers aren’t exactly stealing tabloids’ readership, they still have a monopoly on an endless well of gossip at a time when traditional tabloids are stumbling. US Weekly readership in particular has been unstable in recent years. The New York Times reports that from 2015 to 2016, the magazine experienced a “30 percent decline in newsstand sales.” In March, US Weekly’s parent company Wenner Media sold the publication to National Enquirer-owner American Media Inc. In the aftermath of the deal, AMI reportedly laid off around 40 US Weekly employees.
According to Celebrity Net Worth, Keemstar is worth $1.4 million. Philip DeFranco has a net worth of $4 million. And while many vloggers seem to have no interest in covering the world outside YouTube, DeFranco has recently started covering the Trump administration.
Just as TMZ broke from journalistic norms to achieve success, YouTube channels are pushing the boundaries of what’s acceptable — and legal. Many YouTube tabloid hosts have no formal training in journalism, and don’t identify as journalists or press.
Sanders Kennedy is an outlier in this respect. Before becoming a full-time YouTuber, he worked at the celebrity entertainment site DosLives.com, where he learned to source his stories and hedge rumors.
“A lot of people think that when I say the word ‘allegedly,’ I’m being over the top,” he says. “It's like, ‘No, I have to say allegedly. It's a rumor.’ When you put something out as fact and it’s not fact, that could be seen as a legal issue. And [using phrases like] ‘sources say’ has really saved me from legal action.”
Sanders told me in the three-plus years he’s being vlogging, he’s never run into any legal trouble, or even threats of it. Keemstar, on the other hand, hasn’t been so lucky. His style of humor is built on controversy; he’s been known to casually toss off a rape joke or make light of slavery. One Change.org petition claims that Keemstar habitually harasses other YouTubers. The YouTube video “Exposing Keemstar as a Fraud,” which summarizes Keemstar’s alleged wrongdoings, is just one of several anti-Keem clips. Keemstar declined to be interviewed for this piece.
It’s not just viewers who question Keemstar’s methods — it’s other YouTubers. “Please help me sue Keemstar” says Onision ( known as UhOhBro) in response to one DramaAlert video. Onision had recently launched a crowdfunding Patreon page because he wasn’t making enough money from YouTube; he told fans he was going to have to sell his house. On DramaAlert, Keemstar insisted that Onision didn’t even have a mortgage to pay, and that his Patreon was a scam. In retaliation, Onision made the aforementioned lawsuit video, in which brought out boxes of mortgage bills to show his viewers. “DramaAlert, I need a public apology for you spreading false information about me,” Onision says to the camera. “Immediately.”
Keemstar never apologized. Onision, it seems, never sued Keemstar anyway.
But Keemstar has been forced to retract stories and apologize in the past. Last year, DramaAlert reported a story that an elderly Twitch streamer was actually a sex offender who had been recently released from prison. Except the Twitch streamer turned out to be a different man entirely, who was now being harassed online by hundreds of righteous DramaAlert viewers. Once he realized his mistake, Keemstar posted an apology video in which he promised to vet his stories more thoroughly in the future. “I was so proud of how successful my show was becoming,” he says in the video. “But now as I sit here in front of you, I don’t feel proud at all. I feel ashamed.”
In the past, when tabloids would wade into tricky ethical territory, they’d do so behind some kind of pre-established editorial boundaries. And if a story went sour, there were lawyers on hand to deal with the fallout. But YouTube’s gossip vloggers are largely on their own when it comes to making publishing decisions.
And that fallout? YouTube is grappling with it as a business. Because the company has no way to control what its users say in their videos, it can really only intervene after it receives complaints. Many vloggers think YouTube has started to intentionally suppress controversial videos, even as it doesn’t issue explicit takedowns for them. Google recently started allowing advertisers to opt out of placing ads on “controversial” content on YouTube, which led to a huge backlash from creators (including gossip vloggers) complaining that their ad revenue had suddenly dropped. YouTube did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Keemstar recently tweeted asking fans if they would consider paying for DramaAlert exclusives. Some of his followers suggested he should move his show over to Vid.Me, an ad-free YouTube knockoff where viewers have the option to leave a tip under each video. But Keemstar quickly dismissed the idea, comparing Vid.Me to “an 8-year-old’s birthday party.”
Because even as YouTube alienates its gossip reporters, it’s still the most logical platform for them to use. YouTube is still where the audience is, where other creators are, and where the drama is.
A few days after tweeting about possible subscription fees, Keem announced he wasn’t going to ask fans to pay for content, even though he was making DramaAlert “for free, practically.” He said he was going to earn money by creating a new video game and promoting it on YouTube. It’s a natural platform for him — he’s already famous there. How long that fame  last is another story. “[Fame] can occur more rapidly now to people who, in the past, wouldn’t have had much of a shot at it at all,” says Steve Jones, the UIC professor. “But it can  leave much more quickly.”
As YouTube’s relationship with its creators gets more contentious, its biggest stars have leveraged their fame into Netflix writing gigs and multimillion-dollar deals with CNN. Once they’ve hit that level, are they even really YouTube celebrities anymore? And can gossip vloggers justify coverage of these new sitcom stars and CNN reporters with the argument that they once, years ago, ran popular YouTube channels?
For decades, tabloids have grappled with shifts in coverage, as beloved celebrities fell from the public eye. But YouTube’s gossip vloggers are going to have to figure out what to do once their celebrities fall even further into it.
Microsoft has started posting E3 teaser videos for its Project Scorpio unveiling on Sunday. While the minute-long teasers look innocent, some of them include hidden messages. Twitter users have discovered that one particular teaser includes a “6>4” hidden next to a Ferris wheel. The 6 is greater than 4 message is clearly a references to the 6 teraflops of power in the Xbox Project Scorpio console compared to Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro with around 4 teraflops of power.
In another teaser posted yesterday, there’s a "X10S101-317” message displayed on a stage with a crowd of people. Microsoft typically uses this type of date format for its Windows and Xbox software builds, so if you separate out the X10S to refer to the console, then the remaining 101317 could mean October 13th. Windows Central points out this is a Friday, a typical console release day. The X10S could mean anything, but it does come just a few days after Microsoft filed a trademark for a mysterious S logo that’s related to gaming.
Microsoft posted another teaser today that doesn’t appear to include a hidden message, but not every teaser has so far. Either way, Microsoft has consistently used similar marketing for its Project Scorpio with cut outs in the font it uses. This same font can be seen in both the trademarked S logo and the teasers Microsoft is posting to Facebook and Twitter this week. Microsoft has a history of creating teasers and games for its Xbox announcements, including the famous I Love Bees alternate reality game for Halo 2. Microsoft is planning to unveil its Project Scorpio console this Sunday at 2PM PT / 5PM ET.
The Museum of Modern Art in New York City is hosting the first US-based solo exhibit from artist Ian Cheng: a live simulation known as the “Emissary trilogy.” In addition to the physical installation, the museum is  streaming “unique versions that exist online only” via Twitch. The second piece, Emissary Forks At Perfection, began streaming yesterday and is available to watch until July 24th.
Twitch is best known as a platform widely used by the gaming community, and the partnership with MoMA reflects that. The Emissary trilogy creates its simulation through the use of a video game engine; Cheng describes it as “a video game that plays itself.” The exhibit is an exploration of the human consciousness and evolution.
The stream is available on Twitch and MoMA’s website, and the exhibit runs until September 25th. The final piece, Emissary Sunsets the Self, runs from August 8th to September 25th.
For those who can make it to the museum, the actual exhibit features 10-foot projections as part of its large-scale installation. Viewers are invited to “follow the lives of specific characters as they interact within the simulated worlds and each other in an ever-changing environment.”
People looking to experience the concept more in-depth can  download Everything on PlayStation 4. The game — another evolution-based idea that can play itself — was featured as an art exhibit at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.


Cars have become expensive, rolling gadgets that are full of screens, speakers, and sensors — but are they actually good gadgets? In our new series, ScreenDrive, we'll review cars just like any other device, starting with the basics of what they’re like to use.
The construction workers on 59th Street loved to stare. During my day of driving the Rolls-Royce Dawn around, I took the car through three boroughs — Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens — and stopped people in their tracks in each one. A construction worker in the city looked back at me while I was stopped at a red light. I saw him whisper to his co-worker, and then he turned around, too. That guy said something aloud, and the rest of the team swiveled their heads to sneak a peek. I don’t blame them for staring; the Dawn’s a rare, attractive car that starts at $341,125; the model I drove costs $412,430. For that price, you’d maybe think I got a look at the future of driving tech in addition to a top-of-line, eye-catching ride. That’s not the case.
No, instead, Rolls-Royce played it safe. The company says its drivers own multiple cars, and their Rolls isn’t for everyday driving. It’s a status symbol in which most people are probably driven around. So, with that in mind, the company has taken a muted approach to its car tech. People flaunt the Dawn for its gorgeous exterior and interior details, not the number of cameras it has installed or its groundbreaking tech — at least that’s how Rolls-Royce seems to see it. Still, maybe some people want the option of more tech, like screens installed in the backs of the front seat headrests, or even Android Auto and Apple CarPlay (neither of which is available on the Dawn). Rolls-Royce doesn’t offer these add-ons and instead limits its tech risks by sticking with features that it knows  probably work fine and not anger anyone.
The Dawn succeeds insomuch as it fails. If you want tons of tech, this isn’t the car for you. But if you’re okay with spending $400,000 for a handcrafted, Bluetooth-equipped vehicle, the Dawn does the trick.
The Dawn features a heads-up display; a 10.25-inch, 1280 x 720 non-touchscreen center console display; and a smaller LED display, called the Driver Information Panel, beneath the instrument cluster. This screen shows the same information as the HUD, including the area’s speed limit, upcoming directions, and phone calls. As I mentioned, the car doesn’t support Apple CarPlay or Android Auto; it only pairs with phones over Bluetooth. Barely any apps are installed, meaning there’s no Pandora or SoundHound or whatever else car manufacturers preload. I hate apps, so for me, this was fine. I do know some people are loyal Pandora listeners, though, and maybe they’d want it natively built into the car. I appreciated the fact that I didn’t have to fuss over extraneous apps and tech, like inconsistent gesture controls or instructional videos that teach me how to operate everything. I understood how to drive and operate the Dawn by just getting inside.
The most unique aspect of the Dawn’s main display is that you can’t control it through touch. I’m intrigued by this decision since carmakers haven’t reached a consensus on what drivers like best. In the Dawn’s case, it didn’t take me long to get used to not being able to poke at the screen and instead having to rely on a controller. I could write on the touch-sensitive controller or use my voice to input addresses, in addition to rotating it or pushing separate buttons. From this display, you can access eight menus that include the radio, multimedia, phone, navigation, vehicle info, settings, “office,” and apps. The feel of the software — the maps in particular — look and feel like BMW’s iDrive. (This makes sense considering the company bought Rolls-Royce in 1998, meaning the smaller British outpost has access to all of BMW’s software and engineers.)
This non-touchscreen risk proved successful, although I can’t say the same about the company’s odd choice of including a smaller screen beneath the instrument panel.
I don’t fully understand what the Driver Information Panel is designed to do. You can choose to display the HUD information there instead, but I find the windshield infinitely more preferable because you don’t have to look away from the road. The bottom display can show your lane control settings and whether you have night vision on or off (which the HUD won’t), as well as mileage. Yes, the Dawn includes night vision with pedestrian detection. I didn’t test it much during my drive, but it seems more like a gimmick than an actually useful application. Although, with that said, New York City has lots of lights.
As is the case with all cars, the heads-up display once again proved indispensable. It displayed the area’s speed limit, upcoming directions, and phone call details. The HUD refreshed promptly, except for a few times when it froze up after I tried to hang up a call. This was frustrating because I then had to grab my phone to make sure the call was disconnected. This happened more than once. I didn’t notice any lag time on the main display. Even still, the HUD got me where I wanted to go and let me focus on the road ahead.
Like I said, not having a touchscreen wasn’t a huge issue. You can turn, write on, or tap the Spirit of Ecstasy Rotary Controller, as Rolls-Royce calls it, to navigate the menus. (Rolls-Royce incorporated its signature Spirit of Ecstasy ornament into the controller by re-creating it with crystal and solid silver and then embedding it.) Using the controller wasn’t difficult or overly laborious except when I had to input an address. The dialer picked up on all my drawn letters, but I often opted for voice controls. The car assistant has the voice of a British woman, which I enjoyed — a cheery accent really does make you like your car a bit more. The Dawn always recognized my voice with no comprehension issues, although I did struggle to select a phone number. I have multiple numbers under one of my friend’s name, for example, so the Dawn asked me to select a row number for the number I wanted to call. The car doesn’t actually enumerate the rows, though; it expects you to count them, which is hard to do while driving.  it doesn’t show these rows on the HUD, so if you’re trying to call someone while you’re driving, you’ll have to look over at the main display. Smaller buttons surround the controller to let you quickly switch between the radio, CD player, your phone, and navigation. These could be useful, but I often forgot which button was for what. I  had a hard time locating them while driving because I had to reach over the controller to get to them. There’s  larger buttons for going back or hiding the display beneath a wood panel.
The steering wheel includes a volume control wheel and a strange, vertical-button-control-wheel-thing that lets you either change tracks on your paired phone or the radio station. You can turn and push down on it, although it really felt like it should only be able to do one or the other. The volume controls are  slanted and small, which made me prefer the knob on the center console. To the left of the steering wheel, you can adjust the brightness of the screens with a random control wheel. As much as I was surprised by its existence, I appreciated the convenience because it let me to avoid the settings menu entirely. The less I have to purposely seek out and interact with software, the better. And generally, Rolls-Royce makes it easy to avoid fuddling around with its displays and interface.
As I mentioned above, Rolls-Royce shares software resources with BMW, so for that reason, the tech feels similar to any iDrive-equipped car. The menu layout that depicts your options as icons to scroll through, the settings page, and even the pairing page all look like direct descendents of iDrive. The navigation is nearly identical to iDrive, too, and as I wrote about the 2017 5 Series, the layout and directions are intuitive. It’s a clean interface. During this testing round, I wasn’t impressed with the points of interest option. The system didn’t recognize or know where the Whitney or Jane Hotel were, which are two places I’d expect people to look up. For some reason, zooming in on a map wasn’t intuitive either. I simply turned the controller to zoom, but it didn’t immediately seem like the proper way to do so. Similarly to my major gripe with the new BMW 5 Series, I was unable to get messages from my iPhone to load on the display, even when I turned notifications on from my Bluetooth options. I’ve been told it should have worked, although I might need a special cradle, which costs more than $200. That’s annoying, but maybe not so much in a $400,000 car. Apparently BlackBerry SMS works over Bluetooth for all of you classic BlackBerry users. Heh.
I still find this messaging difficulty inexcusable. Navigation, phone calls, music, and messages are essential for modern driving. I just want to see my texts without an added cost. As an aside, the icons on the Dawn are oddly outdated, too. The radio icon looks like a radio from the 1950s or something, which, okay, I guess that’s a novelty.
The Dawn goes up in price depending on how you deck out the interior and exterior. On my model, the white paint job costs an extra $10,650. The custom interior cost more than $10,000 — contrast stitching alone costs $4,200. Lighting up the Spirit of Ecstasy ornament costs another $4,125.
The pricing of the packages speaks to how Rolls-Royce conceptualizes the Dawn. The majority of extra costs relate to interior and exterior details with no mention of tech. The heads-up display, Bluetooth pairing, and main console display are included in the base price. You don’t get many options for extra tech, other than night vision and active cruise control for $7,430. That’s okay, though, because let’s be real: everyone looks silly using gesture controls, and you want to look cool in your Dawn.
Rolls-Royce assumes you aren’t buying its car for the tech. That’s probably true. Instead, the Dawn is a collector’s item that  still look awesome in 2080, especially if you don’t have any outdated tech to age it.
Today, NASA is announcing to the world its newest class of astronauts at the space agency’s Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. This is the new group of people who could potentially fly on brand-new vehicles into lower Earth orbit or into deep space one day. Around a dozen lucky and incredibly talented humans  join the ranks of the astronaut corps this afternoon, which currently boasts 44 people who are eligible for flight assignments.
The newest class was handpicked from more than 18,300 hopefuls who applied between December 2015 and February 2016 — the highest amount of submissions NASA has ever received during an open call. Before this, around 8,000 was the record for most submissions in 1978. To be picked, people have to meet a certain set of criteria — such as having a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field or experience flying jet aircraft — and then go through rounds of interviews. So today’s new astronauts have gone through a lot to get to this point.
And this latest class may have the chance to ride on some entirely novel spacecraft that are currently in development. As of now, the only ride astronauts have is the Russian Soyuz rocket, which ferries people to and from the International Space Station. But both SpaceX and Boeing are working on vehicles — the Dragon and CST-100 Starliner, respectively — that  be able to take astronauts to the ISS; those are slated to start flying as early as 2018. Plus, NASA is  developing the Orion crew capsule, designed to carry people into deep space when launched on top of a new rocket called the Space Launch System; that vehicle is slated to start carrying people in the 2020s. After two years of training, the new astronaut class could be assigned to any of these new spacecraft.
Today’s announcement gets underway at 2PM ET, and it’s shaping up to be a dynamic show. Vice President Mike Pence  even be in attendance in Houston. So check back here this afternoon to see who made the cut.

If you were listening to Apple’s keynote address at the Worldwide Developer’s Conference this week, you might have walked away thinking that this is the year (and the version of iOS) that Siri finally feels like a capable digital assistant.
Apple announced it was adding a new visual interface to its digital assistant, the ability to handle follow-up questions, and even language translation. Siri is  getting a new voice completely generated by machine learning algorithms. SiriKit, the development tool that lets third-party companies integrate with Siri, is becoming more robust, too. You’ll be able to type to Siri in iOS 11, and, of course, the assistant underpins Apple’s newest product, its HomePod speaker.
What Apple failed to mention was whether it’s done anything to fix Siri’s biggest problem — understanding your spoken requests.
Voice recognition has been the biggest drag on Siri since the assistant’s introduction in 2011. Too often, Siri whiffs when it tries to interpret your commands. And even when it gets that part right, there’s a good chance Siri only gets you halfway to an answer before it crashes headlong into its own limitations. If that’s still going to be the case, more results won’t be enough to make it useful. Neither  a smoother voice.
Google’s Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa aren’t perfect, but they consistently handle more advanced requests better than Siri. This is due, in part, to how Apple has lagged behind in building out its artificial intelligence efforts. Apple’s tendency for secrecy has reportedly scared away some of the best minds in AI out of fear that there’s no chance for recognition in Cupertino.
Now, if Apple catches up on AI, WWDC might be where it turned the corner. There’s reason to believe it’s finally serious about AI thanks to Core ML, and what developers take away from this conference could help shape the company’s future efforts. But Apple still didn’t bother to mention what it’s doing to fix Siri’s fatal flaw.
What Apple did instead was signal how it might try to get around those shortcomings: by changing what it considers Siri to be in the first place.
“In iOS 11, Siri does so much more in learning how you’re using your device,” Apple’s software SVP Craig Federighi said onstage, before explaining with a demo. Federighi opened the Apple News app after reading about Iceland in Safari, and Siri surfaced stories about the country that he might like to read. When he jumped to iMessage for a mock conversation about traveling there, Siri suggested new, Icelandic vocabulary that it had pulled from those articles.
It didn’t stop there. Federighi briefly flashed a slide that teased some things Apple wants developers to focus on with SiriKit, full of terms like “photo search,” “workouts,” and “QR codes.” Another short demo showed Siri populating a notification about an upcoming flight. The new scrolling set of cards on watchOS 4 that splices photo memories in between the weather, traffic, and the day’s scheduled events? Siri.
These sound like useful features, but they are far from what we considered Siri to be since Apple bought the company behind it in 2010, which is a digital assistant that we interact with directly. Many of them have nothing to do with talking (or typing) to Siri. In fact, Siri wasn’t spoken to once during the entire keynote.
Apple has been slowly building to this for a while, starting with things like “Siri app suggestions,” a row of icons in the Spotlight screen that changes based on which app your phone thinks you want to use. But now the company appears ready to apply that thinking broadly, using the Siri brand as a catchall for machine learning tricks that are starting to become standard on smartphones.
If you buy Apple’s marketing, this is a major evolution of Siri. Really though, it helps mitigate the risk associated with Siri’s biggest shortcoming, because it means you’ll have all new ways of obliquely interacting with the assistant that don’t require voice recognition. But even if it alleviates that pressure, the move opens up a new attack vector on Siri, because none of these new features that Apple showed off seem to surpass what competitors like Google, Amazon, or Microsoft are already doing with their own AI efforts.
So where does that leave what we once thought of as Siri? In August of last year, Apple told the world that Siri was finally ready to strut its stuff. Two months later, though, die-hard users were still finding the experience disappointing. These next few months leading up to (and beyond) the next iPhone release feel like another one of those moments of truth. We’ll either have more reasons to be frustrated by Siri, or things  finally turn around.
Apple obviously feels confident enough in their digital assistant to put it front and center on every device; it even went so far as to build a whole piece of hardware around it with HomePod. When iOS 11 updates roll out to a billion devices, and the HomePod starts arriving in people’s living rooms, we’ll see if Siri has managed to catch up to the competition, or if it continues to leave users with the impression that Apple doesn’t have a handle on today’s cutting-edge AI.
Ben Popper contributed to this piece.





Nyko is teaming up with Samsung as an officially licensed partner to build controllers and accessories, and its first product is here to enhance your VR experience by offering a controller that you can conveniently keep with your headset when it’s not in use.
The controller is the PlayPad VR, designed to work with Samsung’s Gear VR headset. And while it may look like Nyko is trying to strap a controller to your face, the PlayPad VR simply attaches to the front of the Gear VR for storage when not in use, replacing the usual plastic cover. (When in use, that spot  continue to be taken up by a smartphone serving as a display.)
The PlayPad VR is otherwise a fairly standard Bluetooth gamepad. It offers a D-pad, two joysticks, four shoulder buttons, and is compatible with Android’s built-in controller support, so most games should just work out of the box. And like the Galaxy S8, it charges via USB-C, so you’ll be able to use a single cable for everything.
The PlayPad VR  be available later this year for $49.99.
In the first 30 years of mobile phone development, tech companies worked to make them smaller. Then, with the advent of the smartphone, we hit an inflection point where the size of the screen outweighed the portability of the device, and the race to miniaturize our smartphones came to an end. When it comes to the evolution of consumer camera drones, we’re in the early stages of experimenting with how small these gadgets can be while still delivering worthwhile results.
DJI’s Phantom 4 came out in March 2016. Six months later it released the Mavic Pro, which was about half the weight and, with its folding design, less than half the size. Eights months after that, and DJI’s latest drone, the $499 Spark, halves the size and weight of the already slim Mavic. If things keep up at this rate, DJI  be able to cram a full payload of its advanced sensors, stabilizers, and camera into a drone the size of a matchbox by Christmas of this year.
To deliver this form factor, however, DJI had to do something it’s never done before: compromise on performance. While the Mavic was much smaller than the Phantom 4, it actually packed more range and advanced flight features, while nearly matching the camera stabilization and speed. The Spark is the first DJI drone that clearly offers less range and lower image quality than units that came before, a trade-off that keeps its size and price to a minimum.
The big question is: does the Spark deliver a great experience? Having spent a week and half with the unit, I can say the answer is a definite yes. It makes getting in the air and capturing photos and video drop-dead simple in a way no drone, DJI or otherwise, has managed to do before. Pulling it out of your pocket, powering it on, and launching it from your palm takes about 10 seconds total. There’s no need to bother pairing it with a remote or a mobile app — just raise your hand up, and it  go into gesture control mode. From there you can send it flying about 20 feet away and start snapping aerial photographs. That is incredibly liberating and fun. Do it in front of someone and they  inevitably ask, “Can I try that?”
Is the Spark for everybody? Probably not. If you make your living taking photos and video, the Spark probably won’t deliver the quality you’re looking for. And if you already own a nice camera drone, especially something small like the DJI Mavic, the Spark doesn’t add much to your arsenal. But for anyone who has been thinking of getting a drone but was put off by price or complexity, this is the unit to buy.
Like all DJI drones, the Spark’s basic performance was excellent. The battery delivered between 12–15 minutes of flight time in my testing, depending on wind conditions and how aggressively I was flying. More importantly, the amount of power never dropped off suddenly, and the battery stayed firmly in the drone. The battery takes about 40–50 minutes to go from dead to full with the dedicated wall charger. If you don’t want to lug that along on your next vacation, you can  charge it with a standard Micro USB cable, but be warned: charging is much slower that way.
There’s a vision sensor on the belly of the aircraft, and in my testing, the Spark could definitely hold its position indoors. But, you need to be aware that buildings, especially big metal ones, wreak havoc on the internal compass of your drone, so plan to calibrate your compass in a more amenable spot beforehand.
Now, while the Spark is great at hovering in one place indoors, due to its small size, the Spark has to work overtime to stay in one place against even moderate wind. Flying outdoors on a windy day is going to cut down on your battery life and, since it’s a two-axis gimbal, some of that sideways movement  show up in your footage in a way that wouldn’t happen with a Phantom or Mavic.
The simplest way to fly the drone is with gesture control. Double tap on the power button and it  scan for your face, then take off. This worked really well and made it easy to fly in areas that might otherwise have been tricky to launch from. If you extend your palm in front of your face a few feet from the Spark, it  recognize your posture and enter gesture control. You can sweep your hand up, down, left, and right to control its movement. This worked very well in my testing. You can  walk forward or backward and the drone  keep its distance by moving with you.
The more advanced elements of gesture control were really fun when they worked, but a little bit less reliable. If you wave one hand like you’re saying goodbye, the Spark  fly away and up to a distance of about 20 feet. From there you can make a square around your face with your forefingers and thumb like an old Hollywood director checking the frame. That instructs Spark to snap a photo. Finally, to bring it home, you make a big Y with your arms above your head. I got all these commands to work, but I often had to repeat them multiple times. I still haven’t figured out exactly what the right posture or movement is to make sure the Spark gets it every time.
If you want to go beyond the photos and distances offered by gesture mode, you need to pair the Spark with the DJI Go 4 mobile app. The unit puts off a Wi-Fi network and in my testing it was simple to find and connect to. Once you’ve got the app open, you can see a live video feed from the drone’s camera. You can fly using your thumbs on the screen; in my testing, the unit responded quickly and precisely to these digital controls.
If thumbsticks are too challenging, the Spark offers a couple other options for piloting. There is TapFly mode, where you simply click on the screen to indicate which direction the unit should go. The Spark, despite its small size, has sensors that allow it to detect and avoid obstacles when moving forward. You can use TapFly to get a lot done, but it’s less precise than a controller and the drone  often decline to move through tight spaces.
The Spark  has ActiveTrack, which uses computer vision to automatically follow a subject. When moving forward in this mode, the Spark  dodge obstacles. It can  trace alongside a subject or follow you moving backward, but in those cases the pilot needs to ensure it doesn’t smash into anything. The tracking works well, but it isn’t foolproof. If a person is moving among a crowd, say an athlete in a jersey on a field of teammates, the Spark can get confused and start following the wrong player.
The final option for piloting, and the one you’ll probably use most, is called Quickshot. The app offers four preprogrammed shots: a “dronie” mode that sends it flying up and away, a circle that moves around you at a fixed radius, a rocket that goes straight up, and a helix that moves in an ever-widening circle, making you the star of your own personal Michael Bay movie. Like ActiveTrack, these moves are all locked to a subject and can adjust to track them as they move through space.
In my testing Quickshots worked well, but they  highlighted the limitations of the Spark. When you fly it using a mobile app paired to your phone over Wi-Fi, the Spark’s range tops out at about 300 feet away and 150 feet up. When executing the dronie and the helix, both of which pull away from the subject, my unit lost its connection to my phone. Both times it was less than 300 feet away. Once, when flying near some large metal poles, I lost my connection at less than 50 feet.
Now these connectivity issues aren’t a knock on the Spark in particular. It’s something that happens with all Wi-Fi-connected drones, and was a regular occurrence when I was flying the Solo from 3D Robotics and the Bebop from Parrot. And the Spark always made the best of a bad situation, automatically returning home and landing safely. But for beginners, these moments — when your drone is hundreds of feet away or hovering over water and you suddenly lose your video signal and ability to control it — can be terrifying. And with just 16 minutes of battery life, these disconnects burn a lot of power that could have been better spent.
DJI is offering a $150 remote control that would extend the Spark’s range to over a mile and up your top speed to 31 miles per hour. Your best value, if you want to upgrade, is the Fly More Combo. That gets you the remote, extra battery, portable charging hub, and additional rotors and rotor guards for $699. Having this around to ensure connectivity and extend range sounds like a big improvement, if you don’t end up using the sticks to fly. But since the remote is not available for purchase yet, I won’t dwell on it in this review.
I would love to see a software update for the Spark that adds adaptive range. When the video signal starts to fail, meaning the drone is on the edge of losing its Wi-Fi connection with your phone, the unit should automatically move back into range of a strong connection. If it can continue executing a preprogrammed move while ensuring connection, even better. At the very least, perhaps it could pause at the limit of its connection and ask the user if they want to continue the shot or move back into range.
There are a couple other drones on the market that promise to launch and land from your hand, then automatically track a subject. One, the Hover Camera, is the same price as the Spark. But it has just eight minutes of battery life, a one-axis gimbal, performed terribly in wind, and, in our testing, did a poor job of actually finding and tracking people. Another, the Dobby, flies for just nine minutes and has no gimbal or obstacle avoidance at all.
I’ve been asked a dozen times over the last few years to recommend a drone for people who are interested in the hobby but aren’t sure if it’s for them. At $499, the Spark is exactly what they are looking for. It’s cheap, for a camera drone, and easy to use. You can get photos and video that are worth sharing on social media, albeit not quite professional quality. And you’ll get a sense of what you’re missing, leaving you the option to step up to a larger, more expensive unit if drone flying turns out to be something you enjoy.
Does that mean the Spark is the best drone you can get at this price? It depends what you’re looking for. At $499, the Spark is the same price as a Phantom 3 Standard. So you can get a drone with a three-axis gimbal that shoots 2.7K video, lasts 25 minutes on a single charge, and has range of over half a mile. Or you can get a drone that’s one-quarter the weight, far easier to transport, and launches from the palm of your hand, but offers less battery life, range, and video quality.
The ideal drone depends on what you’re after, and I would describe the Spark as the best starter drone on the market right now. It’s easy to carry around, simple to control, and safe to fly indoors and out, while retaining just enough oomph to capture imagery that  look absolutely epic on your social media feeds. For the casual drone user looking to get a taste of this technology without breaking the bank, there is no better option.

A few months ago, Apple offered a rare near-apology for the Mac Pro. “We designed ourselves into a bit of a corner,” said Craig Federighi, which is probably the best way to say it. Apple was so focused on whether it could put workstation components into a beautiful, tiny trash can form factor, that it never bothered to ask if it should.
But by the time Apple was coming to this obvious conclusion, it was already too late for me to care whether or not Apple can figure out how to build a modern desktop computer. I built my own Windows 10 PC late last year, and it's great. My budget was $1,000, and I went $100 over. My build's dominant cost was the graphics card, a GeForce 1070 which was a bit over $400 at the time. I skimped on the CPU (Core i5), got a too-small SSD (256GB), and only have 16GB of RAM. But I got what I wanted: a simple, white box that holds a GeForce 1070 and runs Overwatch, Visual Studio, the Unreal Engine editor, and Oculus VR perfectly.
I've owned Macs my entire life, but somewhere along the way my interests and Apple's diverged. I miss a lot of things about macOS when I’m creating stuff on my PC, but I  have no interest in setting cash on fire out of some misguided sense of loyalty or nostalgia.
This week, Apple finally announced a computer that can compete GPU-wise with my PC: a $2,299 iMac with a 5K display, 8GB of RAM, a Core i5 processor, and a Radeon Pro 580 graphics card. It sounds like the perfect machine for a well-paid video editor or graphics designer, but the built-in screen is more of a liability than an asset to anyone who wants to play games or build them. I'm ecstatic that Apple is putting discrete graphics cards in the iMac, but it's sad that I can barely get an upgrade to my current PC for double the cost.
Meanwhile, the upcoming iMac Pro is the first computer from Apple that can easily outcompete my $1,100 DIY machine's GPU. It starts at $4,999. It sounds amazing, with a new-generation Vega graphics card from AMD and up to an 18-core Xeon CPU. But I could never afford it; even if I could, I certainly wouldn't invest that much money into a machine with near zero upgradeability.
I'm not asking for an iPhone with replaceable RAM. I understand the value of a sleek, highly integrated, highly custom product. But if the most important and expensive part of the desktop computer you're looking to buy is the GPU, it's insane to choose one that's soldered to the motherboard.
So-called "enthusiast" users — gamers, game creators, VR dwellers, programmers — know exactly how much computer they can get for their money, and which components are the most valuable to them. I might've splurged on a GPU at the expense of all else, but someone else might want to emphasize the CPU and storage speed. I don't know anyone who has justified a 5K screen purchase to their boss, but I'm sure they exist, too.
Sadly, Apple refuses to provide choice to the exact customers who value it the most. Apple promises the next Mac Pro  be modular and upgradeable, which  be a great improvement, but if it still starts at $2,999, it's basically meaningless to people like me. Apple seems blind to the vast range of high-performance components that aren't called "Xeon" or "Radeon Pro," or price tags that start with the digit “1.” A $599 third-party GPU enclosure is a nice option for developers, but it’s not nearly enough.
Apple has a great history of serving working creative professionals, and these new iMacs certainly do that. But it's totally failing to serve the next generation of creative professionals. Twitch streamers, YouTubers, indie game developers, vaporwave 3D artists, machine learning tinkerers, live video performers — the up-and-comers. All of them can benefit from a good or great GPU. Only the most successful ones could ever consider buying a $2,999 Mac. So they buy PCs instead.
At this year's WWDC, Apple made important strides in software to support VR, AR, machine learning, and game development. But until it can build an affordable computer that can serve those purposes, it's barely a part of the conversation.
SpaceX has scored one of its biggest contracts yet with the US Air Force: launching the military’s secretive X-37B spaceplane on top of the company’s Falcon 9 rocket. The mission, set to happen sometime in August,  be the first one SpaceX does for the Air Force, as the company continues to break into the market of launching military spacecraft.
The mission was confirmed Tuesday at a hearing of the US Senate Armed Services Committee. “[The X-37B]  be going up again on top of a SpaceX launcher in August,” Air Force secretary Heather Wilson said at the hearing. SpaceX did not provide a comment on the news.
Built by Boeing, the X-37B is the Air Force’s reusable spaceplane that looks a bit like a mini Space Shuttle. It’s meant to launch into space on top of a rocket and then return to Earth by landing on a runway. As far as what the vehicle does, that’s anybody’s guess. The X-37B has a payload bay that carries up secretive spacecraft into orbit, perhaps to test out new surveillance technologies or communications capabilities. On its most recent trip, the vehicle spent 718 days in space, conducting “on-orbit experiments” such as testing a new thruster technology. It just returned to Earth last month, without any heads up from the Air Force.
So far the X-37B,  known as the Orbital Test Vehicle, has made four trips into orbit, each time launching on top of one of the United Launch Alliance’s Atlas V rockets. In fact, ULA has essentially been the sole launch provider for military satellites and vehicles over the last decade. Yet SpaceX has been making headway in this area. The company became certified to launch military payloads in 2015, a move by the Air Force to create competition and potentially lower launch costs. “Competition is reducing the cost of launch services,” Wilson said at the hearing. “Currently we’ve got two providers for medium and heavy launch.” Still, it’s unclear if cost is the primary reason for switching to the Falcon 9 for this next mission, but Wilson did tout the potential cost savings offered by the commercial space industry during the hearing.
Since its certification, SpaceX has been publicly awarded two contracts to launch GPS satellites for the Air Force — though those launches won’t take place until 2018 at the earliest. The company did, however, conduct its first national security launch in May, when it launched a satellite for the National Reconnaissance Office. The Air Force has even said it’s open to the idea of launching its satellites on used Falcon 9 rockets — one of SpaceX’s main initiatives to lower the cost of getting to space.


Apple’s newest mobile operating system, iOS 11, is primarily focused on turning the iPad into something resembling a desktop computer. You’ve got a dock for apps, a new file system, and features like drag and drop. But, not all of these changes are destined for the iPad only. The ability to drag and drop files, for example, is  coming to the iPhone.
There are limitations, though. According to tweets from developers at WWDC, Apple says drag and drop on the iPhone  only work within apps. There is a way to use it between apps (see below) but it seems this is a bug, rather than a feature. You can select multiple elements to drag and drop in iOS 11, but there’s no “spring loading.” (On macOS, this is when you pick up a file and hover over a folder and it opens automatically.)
iOS 11 supports drag & drop on iPhone   pic.twitter.com/DRte6fkPrg
Drag and drop is going to be particularly useful for the new Files app, which is  available on the iPhone. It’ll make it easier to organize items stored on your iPhone and iPad — everything from music and movies, to documents and presentations.
However, it’s worth remembering that iOS 11 is still in beta, and Apple can remove features if it wants to, including drag and drop. It might do this if it think it’s confusing on the iPhone. For example, think about all the gradations of touch interactions users now have to remember to use iOS 11 to its full potential. From Apple’s point of view, simpler might be better.
On the iOS 11 home screen:Short tap = openMedium tap = popover menuMedium hold = begin dragLong hold = enter rearrange mode
You’d think I’d be right on board with the HomePod, Apple’s Siri-powered speaker coming out later this year. I actually really like Apple Music as a service, and after buying a Google Home six months ago I’ve grown quite fond of talking to a speaker to tell it what song to play. Something with better sound quality and slicker execution should be an obvious purchase.
Well, the problem is I’ve already rolled my own Apple-speaker-with-smart-assistant solution, and I’m not convinced the HomePod  be much better.
The iPod Hi-Fi is one of Apple’s most maligned products. Unveiled with characteristic hubris at an overblown event, the $349 price was seen as wildly excessive at the time for what amounted to a glorified iPod dock. I loved the design, though, as well as its bassy, room-filling sound. I bought a used one for my bedroom last year because I just missed having it around.
Amazon’s Echo, meanwhile, is the product that defined the whole voice-assistant-speaker category that Apple just entered with the HomePod. It’s not available where I live, but I picked up a $50 Echo Dot when I was in the US for CES this past January. It’s a little microphone-equipped puck that plugs into any speaker and pretty much turns it into a better-sounding Echo.
See where I’m going with this? That’s right — my bedroom speaker is an Apple iPod Hi-Fi equipped with Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant. And it’s great! So great that I’m really not sure I’ll want to pick up a HomePod.
I think Apple was smart to focus the HomePod presentation on music. Everyone loves music, and positioning the HomePod as a smart, modern way to listen to your favorites gives the device a clear use case. Compare the muddled introduction of the Apple Watch to the confident, fitness-focused Series 2 announcement last year — it’s important to explain to people exactly why they might want a given product.
The problem is I have my doubts that the HomePod  be a better speaker than the iPod Hi-Fi. It’s way smaller, for one thing, and I am pretty suspicious of Apple’s claims about its audio processing. We’ve reported that it sounds good in a controlled demo, but who knows how that’ll translate to reality? It’s hard to imagine the HomePod reproducing the Hi-Fi’s thumping sound in such a small enclosure.
Related
But let’s give it the benefit of the doubt and assume its sound quality is on par with the Hi-Fi. Is Siri really going to be on par with Alexa at launch? I vastly prefer Alexa at this point, and it’s hard to see how Apple  catch up with its functionality and flexibility by the end of the year. The company certainly didn’t show much intent to open Siri up to a wider range of developers at WWDC, whereas it’s trivial to get Alexa working with Spotify and countless other services.
That said, the only reason I keep up my Spotify subscription at all is so that I can invoke songs by shouting at various speakers. The $349 HomePod — same price as the iPod Hi-Fi was in 2006, remember — would pay for itself in two and a half years if it got me to cancel Spotify. And maybe that’s the only way Apple can win me over — if its integrated approach results in a notably better experience.
That is, of course, the principle that drives Apple’s entire business model. From the iPhone to the MacBook Pro, the company justifies its high prices by positioning its products as experiences that you just can’t get from competitors. And that’s why I might end up getting a HomePod after all, even if I do own a better speaker with a better voice assistant plugged in. If nothing else, Apple is good at providing new experiences, and they’re rarely less than intriguing.
Free space is a perennial problem on many iPhones — especially those saddled with just 16GB of storage. To help address the problem in the upcoming iOS 11, Apple has introduced a few new tools for managing user data, including the option to automatically delete the apps you never use.
On iOS 11 the feature is called Offload Unused Apps. You can read a detailed breakdown of how it works here, but the gist of it is this: when storage is running low, the Offload feature removes little-used apps, but keeps their documents and data on your device. The deleted apps appear as grayed-out icons on the home screen, and can be reinstalled with a tap. When activated (on the iPhone go to Settings > General > iPhone Storage) the feature works automatically in the background, but users can  choose to offload individual apps of their choosing.
You can now “offload unused app” in iOS 11. It deletes the app binary, but keeps the documents and data. pic.twitter.com/X1b7eljXDR
As Tom Moss, co-founder of Android phone company Nextbit, pointed out on Twitter, this is the same idea his company implemented with its 2016 Robin smartphone. Right down to grayed-out icons marking gone-but-not-forgotten apps. However, it is worth pointing out that iOS 9 had a similar feature back in 2015 — although that was only for temporarily deleting apps while upgrading to a new operating system.
Thankfully, it’s not the only storage-saving feature Apple has introduced in iOS 11 either. Others, found in the same menu in Settings, are simply suggestions for clearing out recently deleted photos and moving data to iCloud, but there’s  a new “auto delete old conversations” feature that deletes data in the Messages app that’s more than a year old. You can  sort conversations by the amount of storage they take up, and delete them on an individual basis.
iOS 11 is currently available as a beta for developers, with a public beta due out at the end of the month, and a general release expected this autumn.
 the iPhone Storage settings screen has been revamped to give you suggestions on how to save storage space #ios11 #wwdc17 pic.twitter.com/P1YY2KbLdQ
Apple  put its proprietary screen repair machines in hundreds of third-party locations by the end of 2017, making it easier for customers to fix cracked, damaged, or otherwise broken iPhone displays. Reuters reports that Apple  outfit some 400 authorized repair centers in 25 different countries with the machines, which it calls “Horizon.”
The move comes after eight US states raised legislation targeting tech companies’ proprietary and restrictive repair practices. Service procedures like the use of the Horizon Machine — which is used to validate the repair of screen breakages — are the target of so-called “right to repair” bills. Until now, the company only allowed the machines to be housed at its own stores, and did not formally acknowledge its existence.
Despite this pressure, Apple says that such legislation wasn’t the driving force in the adoption of its new program. "We've been on a quest to expand our reach," senior director of service operations Brian Naumann told Reuters, claiming that the move was inspired by increasing wait times for repairs at particularly busy Apple stores.
Apple allows authorized third-party repair centers to fix broken iPhones without voiding the devices’ warranty, but the Horizon Machines are required in some more serious cases. The machine is the only one that can install a replacement fingerprint sensor, for example, as other repair procedures won’t be able to tell the iPhone’s processor to accept the new hardware.
US repair provider ComputerCare announced two days ago that it was one of three third-party firms in the US selected as part of a new pilot to get new calibration machines and complete repairs on site. The first wave of Apple’s new plan reportedly goes further, aiming to install the Horizon machines in around 200 of its 4,800 authorized third-party repair providers, with another 200 planned to arrive before the end of the year. Among the first to receive the machines are Best Buy stores, including one in the Miami area, and one in Sunnyvale, California.
Reuters was able to see the Horizon Machine in action at a location in California, marking an apparent softening in Apple’s previously strict secrecy around the procedure. That secrecy may be due to the machines’ ability to access every part of the iPhone — rather than simply exchanging components, the machine can  connect to iOS itself and potentially give access to proprietary software. Apple (and other firms) lobbied against right to repair bills for this reason, saying that giving such machines to third-party vendors opened up its phones to hacker attacks.
But it could  be indicative of Apple’s previous desire to keep part of the lucrative repair industry to itself. Reuters notes that the company doesn’t specify how much it earns from screen repairs, but with standard procedures costing $129 without AppleCare+, analysts estimate it pulls in between $1 and $2 billion a year in revenue. That’s a significant chunk of the $4 billion in revenue the entire global screen repair industry is believed to generate annually, with manufacturers’ locked-down repair practices forcing third-party repair centers to use unauthorized parts.
As part of a previous pilot that began a year ago, machines are  in place at repair centers in London, Shanghai, and Singapore. Reuters says that centers in countries with no official Apple stores — including Colombia, Norway, and South Korea —   be early recipients of the machines.
The first episode of Planet of the Apps — Apple’s Shark Tank-esque reality TV show about app developers — is now available on Apple Music and iTunes. Anyone  be able to watch the first episode via the company’s streaming service, but subsequent episodes  only be available to Apple Music subscribers, who’ll be able to keep up with the show every week.
The company premiered the episode tonight at its WWDC event in San Jose, before making it available on Apple Music for all at midnight ET. The show focuses on a collection of app developers, each of whom is trying to impress a panel made up of actors Jessica Alba and Gwyneth Paltrow, musician .i.am, and entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk.
​He can transform far-out concepts into tangible reality. Catch @iam on #PlanetOfTheApps, only on @AppleMusic
A post shared by Planet of the Apps (@planetoftheapps) on Jun 6, 2017 at 6:30pm PDT
Apple announced that it was working on an unscripted reality TV show early last year, and clarified its intentions soon after. The company put out an open casting call for “100 of the world’s most talented app creators," who would be trying to pitch their app to the panel. A new trailer released tonight, shortly before the episode aired, detailed exactly how they’d be doing that — with a literal escalator pitch that gives contestants 60 seconds to explain their idea while being slowly brought down to the stage.
Just to really hammer home the app connection, the advisors then do a Tinder-like swipe left or right to specify whether they like the idea. Those who do get the nod  be funded so “they can take the next step to creating one of the great apps of all time.” Expect new episodes of the show — nine more of them after today’s premiere — to air on Tuesdays via Apple Music.
SpaceX successfully landed a Falcon 9 rocket for the 11th time ever this past weekend, and the company just released the first new footage of the feat. The short clip was shot in 4K resolution, and at 60 frames per second, so it offers a stellar view of the rocket landing right near the beach at Cape Canaveral.
The footage, apparently shot from a drone or nearby helicopter, shows the landing in great detail. You can even see the rocket kick up debris on the landing pad as it approaches the bullseye. And speaking of that, this landing was particularly on the money thanks to some clever thinking — SpaceX painted the target with “radio reflective paint,” which helped the rocket split the company’s trademark “X” down the middle, according to CEO Elon Musk.
This was the fifth time the company landed a rocket on solid ground. Most of its landings have come at sea, where the Falcon 9 rockets have to settle down on an autonomous barge. While SpaceX is consistently able to stick those landings, the early attempts at landing in the ocean were marked with explosions thanks to the sheer number of variables at play. But the company has stuck every single attempt to land a rocket at Cape Canaveral, dating all the way back to December 2015, when it landed its first.
Tesla’s shareholders voted this afternoon at their annual meeting against declassifying the electric car company’s board of directors. Critics have said that Tesla’s board is not independent enough, and that it’s filled with people who are incentivized to stay in CEO Elon Musk’s good graces. Declassifying would have made the directors subject to annual elections, but the outcome of the vote means the board  keep its staggered, three-year terms.
But, as is consistently the case with Tesla, Elon Musk stole the show when he came onstage to speak to the shareholders and answer questions from Twitter. Compared to how his loose lips have ignited some of his past speaking engagements, this one was surprisingly light on shock value. There were still a few interesting tidbits, though.
Musk first teased the Model Y in October 2015 when he tweeted, and then deleted, a short mention of the company’s forthcoming all-electric crossover SUV. He’s been light on details ever since, as the company has been focused on launching the Model X and Model 3. At the meeting today, though, he flashed what is our first glimpse of the Y.
There’s very little to go off of in that image, I know, but it appears in line with what Musk has said about the car. It  be a crossover, one that’s sized smaller than a Model X but bigger than the Model 3. It   be a much simpler car with respect to the electrical systems inside — Musk said last month that the Y  have far less wiring than its other cars as the company moves away from its standard 12-volt battery architecture.
Musk  said last month that the Model Y, which is targeted for 2019, would be built on an entirely new vehicle architecture platform, contradicting assumptions that it would be built on the Model 3’s platform as a cost-saving measure. Musk said today that “there are a number of really major manufacturing improvements that can be done that allow us to build a car in a way that a car’s never been built before” by building the Model Y on a new platform.
In fact, Musk justified starting a new platform for the Model Y by trashing the platform-borrowing approach that it has taken with its cars so far. “I think actually we made a mistake in trying to derive the Model X from the model S platform,” he said. “It would have been better to just design an SUV the way an SUV should be designed, [and] design a sedan the way a sedan should be designed. Otherwise you’re just trying to shoehorn something in that doesn’t make sense.”
The Model 3 is the car that’s supposed to bring Tesla to the masses, and yet it wasn’t discussed much — even though it’s launching this summer. Musk did say, though, that the configurator for those who have preordered the car  go live toward the end of next month, when the first Model 3s roll off the line.
But he added that those customers  have to deal with a very limited set of options — essentially color and wheel type — in order to make sure the company can ramp up production accordingly.
“I should say that we’ve kept the initial configurations of the Model 3 very simple,” Musk said. “A big mistake we made with the X, which is primarily my responsibility — there was way too much complexity right at the beginning. That was very foolish.”
Musk said he’s learned from the Model X rollout, which allowed for so much customization at launch that Tesla wound up hurting its own production timelines. “[Model X] is like a fabergé egg of cars. It’s really an amazing product, but it has way too many cool things in it that should have really been rolled in with version two, version three,” he said. “We got overconfident and created something great that probably  never be made again. And perhaps should not be.”
The tech provided by Israeli company Mobileye was a big part of what powered Tesla’s semi-autonomous capabilities in the early going. But the two companies argued mightily last year over who was to blame for the man who died while using the Autopilot system. When the collaboration disintegrated, Tesla had to rebuild Autopilot using its own hardware and software, and it’s only now that Musk feels Tesla’s version is about to eclipse the level of semi-autonomous driving Mobileye had made possible.
“It’s definitely been a tough slog transitioning from the Mobileye vision chip to Tesla’s internal vision system, but I think we’re almost there in terms of exceeding the ability of the hardware one cars,” he said. “I think with the next release of software, which is maybe as soon as next week, we  finally exceed the experience of the hardware one cars, and then it’s going to advance very rapidly from there.”
Tesla is working on making an all-electric, heavy-duty big rig that it plans to unveil at an event this September. We’ve known that for a while, but what’s new is that Musk said the company is collaborating with potential customers of the semi truck to help design it correctly.
“We’re getting them closely involved in the design process, so the biggest customers of the heavy duty Tesla semi are helping ensure that it is specified to their needs, so it’s not a mystery,” Musk told the shareholders. “They already know that it’s going to meet their needs, because they’ve told us what those needs are. So it’ll really just be a question of scaling volume to make as many as we can.”
Musk added that he hopes to reach production scale on the Tesla Semi in two years.
Musk got cheeky when he was asked whether Tesla is working on anything else in addition to its road cars, semi truck, home battery storage service, and solar panel business. “There’s a few other things I haven’t mentioned here. I just like, really recommend showing up for the semi truck unveiling,” he said. “Maybe there’s a little more than we’re saying here. Maybe. Could be. Who knows?”
Elon Musk is famous for his late night Twitter proclamations and, sometimes, rants. Asked a question about how he splits his time between his many companies, he said that “tweet frequency has no correlation with what I actually do for a work basis.” Meaning that, while he tweets a lot about the Boring Company — his effort to dig a massive tunnel system under Los Angeles — he still considers that “basically a hobby.”
Musk  admitted that he “sometimes goes crazy” on Twitter. “You know, [when] there’s a little red wine, a vintage record player, some ambien. Magic. Magic happens.”
(He later echoed the sentiment on Twitter, of course.)
A little red wine, vintage record, some Ambien ... and magic!
Apple yesterday took the wraps off iOS 11 and detailed a healthy chunk of new features set to arrive for iPad and iPhone owners some time this fall. One aspect of the new mobile OS that wasn’t talked about during the keynote was a new “Core NFC” framework that could expand near-field communication features for Apple devices beyond just its mobile payments support.
The change in how iOS makes use of NFC is detailed in a documentation webpage for the beta version of iOS 11, and it was reported by Engadget earlier today. (Apple did announce on stage yesterday that its upcoming watchOS 4 release would let the Apple Watch communicate with supported gym equipment using NFC.)
As it stands today, NFC is used on the iPhone solely to transmit payment requests between a mobile device and a card reader. This is because Apple restricts how the chip is used at a system level within iOS. With the new Core NFC framework, however, Apple could let third-party developers make use of NFC in novel ways, or it could simply expand NFC functions beyond Apple Pay for use in its own apps and services. The documentation page says, “For example, your app might give users information about products they find in a store or exhibits they visit in a museum.”
As Engadget points out, there are more useful NFC use cases that go beyond holding your phone up to a museum exhibit or movie poster to get bombarded with an ad. You could make use of “tap-to-pair” functionality for linking Bluetooth speakers and other accessories to your iPhone, something Android allows and a big workaround to obnoxious wireless pairing woes. Apple could  let the iPhone’s NFC chip support transit passes or workplace keycards. You could imagine Apple releasing a general-purpose app, or build new features into the existing Wallet app, that let you manage NFC data exchanges as if they were just like airline boarding passes, movie tickets, or coupons.
Of course, this is all speculative. But it’s promising news for those eager to turn their iPhone into a kind of one-stop-shop for all their mobile wallet and authentication needs. If Apple can get developers and others — even companies trying to promote new movies and attractions or even just sell ads — to come onboard, NFC could take on a larger role in the iOS ecosystem.
Optoma is looking to popularize 4K projectors with its latest products, the $1,999 UHD60 and the $2,499 UHD65, which launched earlier this week as two of the cheapest 4K projectors on the market.
In particular, the UHD60 is the first 4K projector available that breaks the $2,000 price barrier, and while that may still seem like a lot of money, it’s actually a pretty good deal for a projector that supports 4K resolution and HDR video. , unlike the UHD65, which is meant for professional home theater installation companies to buy and install for customers, the UHD60 is available at regular retailers like Amazon for you to buy and put in your home.
Both projectors support the Rec.709 color standard for accurate images, and can project an image up to 302 inches wide. That said, there is some trickery needed to pull off the 4K projection at this price point. As Projector Central notes, the chip used in the UHD60 only has 2716 x 1528 mirrors (a measurement like pixels used in projectors), which is less than it needs for true 4K. But due to some technical pixel shifting wizardly on the video processing end of things, the projector is able to deliver twice the number of pixels per mirror, reaching the final 4K resolution.
The Optoma UHD60 should be available for purchase on Amazon and Best Buy in the coming days.
Legendary car designer Henrik Fisker released some new images today of the forthcoming EMotion, an ultra-luxury electric vehicle with a range of 400 miles and a top speed of 161 mph. The images more or less track with the rendering Fisker released last year: sleek, aerodynamic lines; a low-slung hood; and a tapered back end. But the designer’s company  revealed some new details about the car that could help revitalize Fisker’s reputation in the EV market.
The EMotion is Fisker’s second attempt to capture lightning in the bottle. Back in 2011, he launched the Fisker Karma, an ultra-luxury, plug-in hybrid vehicle that was supposed to be followed by an all-electric sedan in the years to come.
Unfortunately, Fisker never got the chance to release his own Model 3; after selling some 1,800 units of the Fisker Karma in North America and Europe, Fisker was forced to end production as a result of the bankruptcy of his battery supplier. The vehicle's manufacturer, Fisker Automotive, was later sold to Chinese auto-parts conglomerate Wanxiang. Last year, Fisker revealed his new venture, Fisker Inc., and promised his first vehicle would be released in 2017.
With the release of these new images, Fisker Inc. still seems to be following the Tesla playbook to a T. The company says it  open up preorders at the end of June, at which point the vehicle  be sold directly through its website and forthcoming “experience centers.”
The promised range on the vehicle — 400 miles — is pretty impressive, considering it’s over 100 miles more than a top-of-the-range Tesla. Fisker says it’s able to achieve this thanks to the vehicle’s “advanced high-energy density, patent-pending battery pack and cooling system.” The vehicle  be charged through Fisker’s proprietary “UltraCharger” system, that the company claims  provide over 100 miles of range in just nine minutes of charging. By comparison, Tesla’s SuperChargers can replenish half the battery of a Model X in about 20 minutes.
And, of course, the Fisker EMotion  come with fully autonomous capabilities, the company says. “The front end’s bright aluminum centerpiece houses a LIDAR system behind a tinted screen. Side mirrors conceal two cameras, which enable panoramic, 360-degree views to the driver.” Other details, such as whether the vehicle’s autonomous features are best used on highways only or in urban environments as well, are still unknown.
Fisker did announce a deal with the Hybrid Shop, a Santa Monica-based EV maintenance and repair company, to provide “a one-of-a-kind, white glove concierge service” for EMotion owners.
To be sure, Fisker’s promises don’t amount to much until we see the car in action. Fisker’s previous failure to capture the electric vehicle market may turn some consumers off. And with Tesla about to release the Model 3, and dozens of automakers racing to follow Elon Musk’s company into the mass-market space, it’s unclear how important another insanely expensive, ultra-luxury electric car still is today.
Google’s open-source machine learning project Tensorflow is probably used all the time for helpful things that advance the cause of mankind or something. But in my experience, what it has been best used for is making horrifying auto-generated images out of simple line drawings. I’m referring to edges2cats, which turned any line drawing into a cat. It was a whole thing! Everyone was trying it out, then posting pictures of really demented cats to Twitter for others to laugh at.
Today the same thing has happened, except it’s not cats. It’s human heads. And instead of Google’s project, Dutch Public Broadcaster NPO created its own artificial intelligence system that had only been fed thousands of images of one of its anchors, Lara Rense. As reported by the popular Tumblr prostheticknowledge, the web tool is called Pix2Pix.
You draw a face, and Pix2Pix uses a neural network to create what looks like an approximation of an oil painting of that face (made up of pieces of Rense’s face). Obviously the results mostly look like monsters, especially the pig-baby monster from the first season of American Horror Story.  thumbs.
in case you ever wondered what blob and "oh no" speech bubble would look like if they were human pic.twitter.com/Qowz1leMXO
The auto-detected edges of your line drawing are probably only helpful if you are really good at drawing and can draw a lifelike face. For example, this is a total disaster, by me:
Here’s another total disaster, by The Verge news editor Kwame Opam:
My editor Chris Plante drew a portrait of my robot son Klav, who you might remember from a joke from nearly a year ago, but I don’t know how loyal you are to this website:
Our social media manager and resident cartoonist Dami Lee made the guy from Pan’s Labyrinth:
Anyway, have fun! You can read more about the project on the radio station’s website, but the Google translation of the Dutch is kind of rough.
OnePlus is set to announce its OnePlus 5 flagship on June 20th, and today Android Police released a supposed image of the device that it says should be accurate. From the picture, we can see the device might launch with a dual-camera system and, well, that’s kind of it. Oh, it’ll  maybe be available in black to start, which would be different for OnePlus. The 3T wasn’t initially available in black.
We don’t have many details about the guts of the phone, other than the fact that it’ll have Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 835 processor. We  know OnePlus is working with DxO to optimize camera performance.
I wish we had more to share, but alas, this is all we got. I have a feeling we’ll probably see more details leak out in the weeks to come, but for now, we can tell OnePlus is going for the iPhone look.
Patrik Karlsson, a 33-year-old ad designer living in rural Sweden, has been running the tiny but beloved site This is Not Porn for more than seven years. The site has a simple premise — it’s uh, not porn. It’s a collection of candid celebrity photos, all vintage, and all obscure enough to make the site a veritable goldmine for anyone who wishes they had the personal time to sift through Tumblr, hit the web’s many open photo troves in earnest, or work their way through every Turner classic movie.
Karlsson doesn’t do much with the photos he posts. He just shares things he takes a liking to, with as much context as he can find. Sometimes that means a photographer and a location, sometimes just a date, sometimes just the name that already obviously goes with the famous face. The celebrities are mainstream — there are lots of shots of Harrison Ford, Clint Eastwood, Roger Moore, and other mostly white, male standard-bearers for classic cinema — but the photos are as niche as they come.
It’s nothing more than a sweet pet project, with a paltry 28,000 followers on Twitter. (Fan accounts for individual celebrities like Rihanna or Harry Styles often have hundreds of thousands.) But it’s the best place on the web for people interested in seeing some of the moments around the edges of pop culture classics. One of my recent favorites, for example: the teen actors of the original Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) crowd around Robert Englund, kissing him on the cheek as he relaxes on set. He’s listening to an enormous Walkman in full Freddy Kreuger makeup, and he barely looks up. It’s not porn, but it’s good! I recently chatted with Karlsson about the anniversary, how celebrity micro-blogging has changed since he started This is Not Porn, and why he kept that confusing domain name.
This interview has been edited for clarity.
Where did the idea for the site come from? Can you explain the name?
It all started back in 2010. I had dropped out of college, and I was feeling a bit down and lost. I needed some projects to take my mind off things and keep me busy. I've always liked creating stuff for the internet, so I started a couple of blogs, among them This Is Not Porn. The intention from the start was to post photos that I found sexy, but that weren't actually porn, no nudity or anything like that. So that was what I posted for the first month or so. Then I stumbled upon some old celebrity photos that I found fascinating and beautiful. [I] thought it would be much more fun to dedicate the blog to rare and funny celebrity photos, since that was a more unique niche.
I still think these photos are quite sexy in their own way, and they are definitely not porn, so the name still applies. But keeping the name was probably a poor choice in some ways. Many people are skeptical, and don't want to click on a link that has porn in it. I've heard that the site is blocked by firewalls at workplaces and schools. I have had people tell me I should change the name, but I haven't got any suggestions for what to change it to. I can understand that people get suspicious when they see the URL. They think it  be porn. So I'm working uphill, but I like the name, so I  stick with it.
Ironically enough, the most used search term to find my site is “porn,” so those people  instead be disappointed.
Nick Corri, Amanda Wyss, Johnny Depp, Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund on the set of A Nightmare on Elm Street. pic.twitter.com/7dYCg1g2wT
Where do you find the photos?
Everywhere. The internet is huge, and you can find anything on it. But I  go through magazines, books, and documentaries. Sometimes I get photos sent to me from my followers. I always try to credit the photographer, but many times it's impossible to find the info. If a photographer wants their photo removed, I delete it immediately. I'm not trying to take credit for the photos. I want to share them with more people and archive them for the future.
How do you research and maintain the part of the site where you debunk fake celebrity photos?
With the common sense that I wish more people had in today's social media society. There are too many fake photos and fake news going viral. People need to think before they share or retweet. The photos I've debunked on my site are photos I often see in my feeds, and they often get lots of attention, since people want to believe. When I see something that doesn't seem right or [seems] too good to be true, I try to find the non-Photoshopped original, or try to find the source of the photo to debunk the incorrect caption. It's usually not that hard.
How much time does the website take, and how do you fit it into your schedule?
I work at a smaller company making ads for newspapers and magazines, therefore I don't have as much time as I did before. But the site is my baby and my longest living web project, so I try to put in at least one hour a day, and since I live in a very, very small village in Sweden, I don’t have that much else to do.
I don't really have a daily process. I just look for photos and post them when I find them.
How do you decide what celebrities to feature? Are they based on personal interest? Follower interest?
I try to keep a wide range so there  be something for everybody. Mostly it's people I like or just find interesting, but there are a few exceptions. I have a rule to not post photos from after 2000, but I've broken that a few times. I grew up in the late ‘80s, early ‘90s, so photos from that era are extra nostalgic and fun to me. Anything from movies like Ghostbusters, Star Wars, and Indiana Jones has a special place in my heart. Sometimes I ask my followers what specific celebrities they want to see, and then I go pic-hunting based on their replies.
Which celebrities get the most engagement from followers?
The sad thing is that the most engagement and interest to my site comes when someone dies.
How did you develop your following? Did you do any paid promotion?
I've never done any paid promotions, it has just grown organically. Back in 2011, I got linked on Reddit, and it ended up on the front page. So then everything blew up for a while. But nowadays, I don't have that many views at all. I can't compete with viral sites that copy my 50 most recent photos and name it "50 super-rare crazy celebrity photos that  blow your mind. You won't believe #36." They get thousands of likes and shares. I don't own the photos, so I don't do anything about it. But the followers I have are what keep me going, and I'm very thankful for them.
Sheryl Lee, David Lynch and Moira Kelly on the set of Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me. https://t.co/QSlkOpjzSn pic.twitter.com/2q3lxsa3ZO
You're crowdfunding the site to keep it going. How is that going?
I've probably put more than 3,000 hours into this project, and I just wanted to give the people a chance to contribute if they felt that I've entertained them through the years. I'm not asking for much, just enough to pay for the web hosting. Since I know lots of people use ad-blockers, this is a good alternative. We've reached 51 percent of our goal, so at least some people think it's worth donating a dollar to.
You can see the donations for 2017 here. So far it’s 21 people, with an average donation of $5 to $10.
Why do people love obscure photos of celebrities?
Celebrities have always fascinated people, I think, and it's fun to see that they are just people, too, goofing around and acting silly. I hate all the paparazzi stuff you see today. I would rather see photos with heart and soul and genuine smiles. I'm kind of nostalgic, and these old photos make me happy, so that's why I collect them and want to share them with others.
A legal group has asked Donald Trump to unblock users who have offended him on Twitter, saying that the blocks violate the First Amendment. In a letter, the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University argued that Trump’s Twitter account was a public forum, and banning users from viewing or engaging with his tweets suppresses free speech. “The President must not be allowed to banish views from public discourse simply because he finds them objectionable,” writes Knight Institute executive director Jameel Jaffer. “Having opened this forum to all comers, the President can’t exclude people from it merely because he dislikes what they’re saying.”
The Knight Institute letter cites the cases of Holly O’Reilly and Joseph M. Papp, two Twitter users who were blocked from Trump’s @RealDonaldTrump account after mocking or criticizing the president. They’re far from the only people who have provoked the same reaction — others can be found in the #BlockedByTrump hashtag. Blocked users can’t see Trump’s tweets or reply to them while logged in, which the letter says “suppresses speech in a number of ways.” They compare the Twitter account to city council meeting or other public forum. “It is easy to understand why you and your advisers might have found our clients’ posts to be disagreeable. Even if the posts were scornful and acerbic, however, they were protected by the First Amendment.”
This is pretty much how the whole world sees you.#AMJoy#SundayMorning pic.twitter.com/CycqYnKg8b
Trump — like many Twitter users — has been blocking people for years, but the act took on new meaning after his election. The Knight Institute letter refers to both @RealDonaldTrump and the lesser-used @POTUS accounts, both of which serve as platforms for Trump to make official statements — White House press secretary Sean Spicer said today that Trump’s tweets were “official statements by the president of the United States.”
It’s easy for users to log out and view the tweets, but can the president intentionally try to prevent someone from seeing public statements? This is untested legal territory, and a different (and weirder) question from the usual debates over Twitter free speech, which have previously covered account suspensions and shared blocklists. If the administration doesn’t address the question, the Knight Institute says it should prepare to “face legal action to protect the First Amendment rights of the blocked individuals.”
Preorders are now open for Microsoft’s new Surface Pen, which the company announced last month alongside the new Surface Pro. The pen costs $99.99, and for now, it appears that only the platinum version is available. You can’t click through on the preorder button on the black, blue, or burgundy versions, and Microsoft just says they’re “coming soon.” The platinum version has a June 15th release date.
The new pen speeds up the inking experience to the point that there’s no perceptible lag. It’s double the speed of the previous version, and it can handle tilting, which lets users shade like they would with a pencil. The new pen is compatible with older Surface devices, although tilt won’t work with every gadget. The new Surface Pros support it, and Microsoft plans to add the functionality to existing Surface Studio desktops and Surface Books later this year.

Last fall, Anki — a company mostly known for its connected toy cars — released Cozmo, an AI-powered toy robot that has the personality of WALL-E built inside. The $180 robot was meant to be a new kind of toy that lets kids and developers experiment with what they can build from a toy’s SDK, using machine learning and facial recognition to interact with Cozmo as if it’s is a real pet.
Today, Anki announced that it’s expanding Cozmo to international markets, including Canada, UK, France, Germany, and Nordic countries. Alongside that announcement, there’s  a new limited edition Cozmo that masks the jolly robot in a dark, liquid metal covering.
On any other gadget, I would appreciate the sleek, metal look. On Cozmo, it looks... wrong.
In my brief hands-on with Cozmo, I recalled the robot being very curious, childlike, and innocent. Cute is a word often thrown around. There was an adorable mischief about Cozmo that you just smile about, even when it frowns and knocks over a tower of blocks. Dark Cozmo now looks mildly menacing. It reminds me of what happens when you grow up, become annoyed more easily, get grumpier, and, eventually, learn to embrace the darkness of adulthood where not all is fun and games anymore.
Anyway. If you dig it, you can preorder Dark Liquid Metal Cozmo for $180. It’s expected to ship in September.
Apple has allegedly added support for lossless FLAC audio files in iOS 11, according to reports from Reddit users who have installed copies of the developer beta, spotted by The Next Web.
Per the Reddit thread, FLAC files can be synced to an iOS device through iCloud Drive, then accessed through the new Files application, which  allow for local playback of the high-quality audio files directly on the device. If true, it would mark the first time that Apple has offered support for the popular FLAC file format on an iOS device.
Until now, anyone hoping to have lossless, uncompressed audio on an iOS device had to use Apple’s own ALAC format, which — unlike FLAC — is supported by iTunes. And while on paper there’s no problem converting one lossless file type to another without losing quality (hence the term “lossless”), FLAC is by far the more popular standard, so it’s nice to see that Apple is finally supporting it in some fashion.
That said, the report indicates that FLAC files only work in the Files application, not in the Apple Music app. This makes sense, given that would likely require a more major revision to iTunes as well to support FLAC files to sync them. Still, even if Apple doesn’t offer that functionality in the future, at least audiophiles looking to play their FLAC collections on Apple’s devices may have some workaround when iOS 11 launches this fall.
Back in 2014, MIT debuted CityHome, a solution for tiny living spaces with the ability to pack several home necessities into a single, movable modular unit. Today, the concept — now renamed Ori Systems, after the Japanese art of origami — is available for preorder at $10,000 in New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, Boston, and other major US and Canadian cities.
A collaboration between Fuseproject’s Yves Béhar and MIT Media Lab, Ori Systems, comes in two sizes, “Ori Full” and “Ori Queen,” and for now, it’s only available for preorder by real estate developers, with delivery beginning toward the end of this year. The Ori Systems prototype has been tested by Airbnb guests in Boston for the past year, and model Ori Systems are currently installed in apartment complexes in 10 US and Canadian cities, including The Eugene in New York.
Both sizes of the automated system include a bed, workstation, drawers, a closet, and storage, but the Queen version comes with a couch. The Ori Systems are powered through a standard AC plug connection, and elements can be controlled via the physical Ori control interface on the side of the unit, an app, or via voice command with Alexa. (“Hey Alexa, can you ask Ori to make the bed?”) Ori Systems are  constructed out of lightweight poplar plywood and on wheels, meaning the unit is easy to manually configure and move in case of a power outage.
$10,000 for a single unit appears extravagant at first blush, but purchasing all the pieces of furniture Ori Systems houses individually would already run the average home owner thousands. (A medium-range IKEA bed, mattress, and bedding, for example, could cost around $1,000 alone.) Plus, I don’t know about you, but I can’t command my bed to do anything, let alone put itself away. It’s  likely that the price tag is mutable: if Ori Systems proves the market after their first run, costs could begin to go down as manufacturing scale increases.
In the first production run, 1,200 units  be produced, and the company hopes to expand to other countries in the near future, saying it “acknowledge[s] that the need for new urban solutions is a global challenge.” With micro apartments and rising real estate costs becoming a normative reality in major urban markets like San Francisco, New York, Hong Kong, and Tokyo, Ori Systems comes at a time when many are seeking (and need) new, innovative ways to do more with less living space... like commanding your furniture to bring your glass of wine to you.
Apple finally announced an augmented reality platform for developers yesterday, and it’s about time. ARKit, as the tool is called, lets app makers draw on detailed camera and sensor data to map digital objects into 3D space. This lets them move beyond simple 2D camera overlays, without requiring the heavy-duty software engineering behind more advanced tools like Snapchat world lenses.
If nothing else, Apple has just made catching pokémon more immersive. But ARKit could  let the company compete against Google, which currently sets the gold standard for phone-based augmented reality. It could even set the stage for augmented reality glasses and virtual reality. Here’s what that means.
ARKit enables what Apple refers to as “world tracking,” which works through a technique called visual-inertial odometry. Using the iPhone or iPad’s camera and motion sensors, ARKit finds a bunch of points in the environment, then tracks them as you move the phone. It doesn’t create a 3D model of a space, but it can “pin” objects to one point, realistically changing the scale and perspective. It can  find flat surfaces, which is great for putting digital props on a floor or table.
Apple imagines people using this tech in ways that make it sound a lot like Google’s Tango platform. It referenced an upcoming app from Ikea, for example, which seems very likely to involve putting virtual furniture in your house — something Wayfair has been doing on Tango for a long time. But ARKit has a huge advantage over Tango: it’s going to be available on a giant swathe of existing devices, while Google needs each Android manufacturer to build Tango hardware into their phones.
Facebook is  pushing augmented reality hard, touting some advanced machine learning. But developers are limited to working with Facebook’s own Camera app, while Apple  let them add augmented reality to independent iOS apps. With ARKit, Apple says it’s got “the largest AR platform in the world,” and that may well be true.
On the other hand, ARKit doesn’t work exactly like Tango. Tango has extra cameras to pick up wide-angle images and depth data, and over the past couple of years, it’s developed very precise tracking capabilities. You can do things like scan an entire room and instantly build a 3D model of it, which requires a separate peripheral on iOS. You can  use Tango with a minimum of frustration, because it’s good at keeping objects in place.
ARKit could improve individual elements of existing AR apps; Apple promises excellent object scaling, for example. Apple says ARKit  uses a fraction of the phone’s CPU, so it could make AR less of a resource drain. But it doesn’t transform the iPhone or iPad’s basic tracking capabilities. It just makes them available to more developers, who  no longer have to build their own tracking and imaging systems.
Apple  doesn’t seem as interested as Facebook and Google in hooking this all up to internet search by default. Developers can use Apple’s new machine learning framework to identify objects in a scene, but Apple’s not talking about identifying wine vintages the way Facebook did at F8, or letting Siri analyze concert posters and auto-translate signs the way Google did with Assistant at I/O.
As my colleague Lauren Goode mentioned, Apple is supposedly developing augmented reality glasses, and it needs apps to make that work. ARKit gets iOS developers thinking about AR, so hopefully somebody  come up with a great use case to help Apple’s hardware avoid the ignominious fate of Google Glass.
But ARKit is  a stepping stone in a smaller sense. As a general iOS 11 feature, it’s straddling the gap between Apple’s single-camera devices and its dual-camera iPhone 7 Plus. These cameras offer better depth sensing, and if they become a standard iOS feature, ARKit could start feeling a lot closer to Tango.
If a phone can track someone walking around a virtual object, you could theoretically pop that phone in a VR headset and let them walk around a virtual environment. That’s why Google used Tango technology for its all-in-one VR headset. Lots of people have speculated that Apple is planning an iPhone-based headset, particularly since it may be switching to VR-friendly OLED screens. And now that Apple is officially in the augmented reality game, it’s less of a leap to full VR.
That said, there’s a much higher bar for virtual reality tracking: you won’t literally get sick if an AR object slips out of place, which is a real concern in VR.
For all the excitement over augmented reality, it’s worth remembering that no one has launched a major app with AR as the main selling point. Pokémon Go, touted as one of AR’s big successes, featured the technology as a minor aesthetic perk; we even recommended people turn it off to play the game better. Snapchat augmented reality took off because people were already using Snapchat, and if AR filters succeed on Facebook, it’ll likely be for the same reason.
Making augmented reality more accessible could change this, freeing developers to build AR-first apps for a huge audience with low overhead. Even if these don’t break through, augmented reality’s “killer app” could  be the slow creep of AR into apps people are already using — think ubiquitous filters in video services, or an optional AR mode in games. Neither of these futures would be as exciting as augmented reality glasses, but it would help advance a technology that’s been on the cusp of arriving for years — with devices people already use.
Uber has fired more than 20 employees as part of its investigation into sexual harassment claims at the company, according to Bloomberg. Employees were told at an all-hands meeting at Uber’s San Francisco headquarters about the terminations.
An outside law firm that was retained to investigate claims of sexism and harassment at Uber gave the report today at the meeting, Bloomberg reports. The investigation uncovered over 200 reports of inappropriate conduct, like harassment, bias, bullying, discrimination, and retaliation. Half of the reported incidents were dismissed with no action taken, while 31 employees are in training or counseling, and seven were handed written warnings. Fifty-seven cases are still being investigated.
Uber sexual harassment findings215 claims investigated100 no action20+ terminations
Can confirm, we're hearing at least 200 reports of harassment/discrimination at Uber and at least 20 terminations out of today's all hands
The company has been operating under a cloud since February, when Susan Fowler, a former engineer, published her account of rampant sexism and harassment. Fowler’s story went viral, and since then other engineers have since corroborated her description of Uber’s toxic workplace. In the weeks that followed, multiple top-level executives have left — either because they were fired or on their own accord.
Uber retained ex-US Attorney General Eric Holder and his colleague Tammy Albarran to investigate its workplace culture. But according to Bloomberg, today’s meeting was focused on the findings of a separate law firm, Perkins Coie LLP, that was hired to look into Fowler’s specific allegations. Holder and Albarran’s full report was delivered to Uber’s board last week, but the release of its findings could be delayed because of the recent death of Uber CEO Travis Kalanick’s mother in a boating accident.
We’ve reached out to Uber for comment and we’ll update this story when we hear back. But at least one Uber employee took today’s news about the terminations with surprising aplomb. (She has since deleted this tweet.)
Update, June 6th, 2017, 2:59 am ET: A source with knowledge of today’s all-hands meeting confirmed the numbers that were first reported by Bloomberg, adding that not all the cases reported in the Perkins Coie investigation were related to sexual harassment. Some were related to bullying, retaliation, discrimination, and other instances of inappropriate behavior.
The firm’s report  factor into to Holder and Albarran’s larger investigation into Uber’s cultural problems, which  include recommendations for how the ride-hail giant can prevent future cases of harassment and discrimination from occurring. That report is expected to be delivered to Uber board member Arianna Huffington next week.
A spokesperson for Uber declined to comment.

The internet is an ad-tracking machine. It’s been true for long enough that we rarely talk about it anymore, but it bears repeating. For all the free speech and free information, nearly any site you visit  come with a dozen different tracking cookies, enabling uniquely tailored ads to follow you from site to site. Targeted advertising is still the best way to make money on the internet, so those cookies are everywhere. (The Verge is no exception; that VR room isn’t cheap.) Sites try not to be creepy about it, some harder than others, but the overarching logic is hard to escape. It’s a multibillion-dollar business, and it pays for nearly everything you see online.
Yesterday at WWDC, Apple threw a wrench into that system. Alongside new autoplay blockers, the latest versions of Safari (currently in beta)  have a new tool for blocking third-party ad trackers, aggressively identifying and blocking any cookies used to track users across the web. As Craig Federighi said onstage, “It’s not about blocking ads, but your privacy is protected.”
It’s an important move, particularly for the mobile web, where Safari manages just under 30 percent of browsing sessions. When Safari added the option for ad-blocking with iOS 9, it was a day of reckoning for many web companies — raising hard questions about the future of mobile browsing. This week’s announcement is primed to make a similar splash.
According to Marc Al-Hames, who works on the privacy-focused browser Cliqz, companies are already scrambling to figure out the best way around the new restrictions. “This is a cat-and-mouse game, and it always has been,” Al-Hames says. “Users try out different things to protect themselves, and there’s a multibillion-dollar ad tech industry thinking of ways to circumvent it.”
Surprisingly, Google and Facebook are poised to come out of that game ahead. But to understand why, we need to dig into how the new policy works. Safari has had some version of cookie-blocking for years, but the previous default was to allow cookies “from websites I visit.” The new policy goes further, using machine learning to identify tracking behavior no matter how the cookies are served. In many cases, blocking those cookies outright would break basic functionalities. Instead, Safari puts a strict time limit on how long the cookie can stick around, keeping cookies available for 24 hours after a visit and outright deleting anything older than 30 days.
The crucial distinction is between the first-party sites you’re purposefully visiting and the third-party trackers that come along for the ride. As long as a cookie is associated with a website you’ve visited in the last 24 hours, Safari won’t change much — which gives popular sites like Facebook and the various Google services an easy way around the new restrictions. The systems hit hardest by Safari’s new policy  be third-party systems like Criteo or Adroll, which silently coordinate cookies in the background of thousands of sites. Not coincidentally, Criteo’s stock plummeted in the wake of the announcement.
That’s much less of a problem for Google and Facebook, which already dominate online ads. Most people visit Facebook or a Google service every day, and those users  never be too far outside the 24-hour window. Both services  work as a kind of permanent login, used to access sites like Twitter or WordPress without a separate password. As a result, most users stay logged in to Google and Facebook as long as they’re online. Combine that with omnipresent Like buttons, and you’ve got an easy way to see what people are doing on the web. And as long as you’re visiting Facebook once a day, Safari won’t get in the way of that tracking.
Google and Facebook’s biggest challengers in ad-targeting are telecom companies like Verizon and Comcast, which were given a huge boost by recent shifts in US telecom policy. But those companies should fare just as well. Both Verizon and Comcast invested heavily in web media alongside advertising tech, which means they can take advantage of the same first-party exception as Google and Facebook. (Disclosure: One of Comcast’s media investments is a minority stake in Vox Media, parent company of The Verge.) As long as you’re visiting AOL or Huffington Post sites once a day, Verizon  have no problem targeting ads, and cookie-serving deals may extend that reach even further.
At the same time, ad networks that aren’t attached to popular websites  take a serious hit. It won’t be a total blackout, since most modern networks supplement cookies with more advanced fingerprinting techniques that profile visitors without transmitting any data. They can  try to make cookie-serving agreements with websites, collecting data at the same time that they serve the ads themselves. But the new Safari policy  still put those ad companies at a permanent disadvantage to more powerful players like Google and Facebook. Those companies were already outmatched — with Google and Facebook capturing 90 cents of every new dollar spent on online ads — and the new browser moves  make it even harder for them to survive. The result  tip the balance even farther toward the handful of giant companies that already dominate the web.
Apple isn’t the only force pushing the web in that direction. The European Commission’s recent anti-tracking proposals would establish a similar distinction between first and third parties. Only last week, Google announced an ad-blocker for Chrome that’s likely to edge out small players even further. It’s still hard to say what that  mean for smaller websites and everyday users, but Google and Facebook  only become more central to the business of the web.
Underneath it all is the basic logic of consolidation. These players — Google, Facebook, Verizon, and Comcast — control huge portions of how we connect to the web, from the servers to the fiber to the device, ending with the browser itself. Now, they’re using that control to play for advantage in ad-tracking, with users stuck in the middle. iOS and Safari are incredibly powerful tools in that fight, and by all appearances, Apple is using them to try to craft a less invasive web experience for its users. But after more than a decade of ad tech, untangling that knot may be harder than the company realizes.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk got a jump on the company’s annual shareholder meeting yesterday, answering a few questions — among the thousands received — via Twitter.
He chose to answer cutting-edge queries about his underwear preference and how he celebrates a successful shareholders’ meeting (commando and Cabernet wine from California, for the inquiring minds out there).
He  weighed in on how many factories it would take to duplicate Ford’s global production. (Ford has nearly two dozen factories). Musk believes it would be four or five Gigafactories, an answer that’s in line with previously stated plans. Though he did provide a bit more information on where, stating that these factories would be located close to the end customer, a hint that Tesla might eventually have factories in other key markets like China. Tesla has recently denied a report that it planned to open a factory in China’s Guangdong Province. And news coming out of China indicates that a move toward halting electric car permits might derail this strategy, even if it did proceed. Still, Musk’s latest comment on Twitter clarifies the company’s strategy to widen its geographic footprint.
Tesla plans to finalize the location for its third, fourth, and fifth Gigafactories in 2017, according to its fourth quarter 2016 shareholder letter. (Its first Gigafactory, near Reno, Nevada,  mass-produce lithium-ion batteries and make electric motors and gearbox components for its Model 3 electric car. The second Gigafactory is a solar plant in New York.)
Call his speed round on Twitter a warm-up to the real thing, an annual meeting that traditionally has abounded with informational nuggets and updates from Musk about what Tesla is up to and where it’s headed.
Tesla’s annual shareholder meeting  be held at 2:30PM PT at Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California.
The questions today  likely be a bit more probing than “boxers or briefs?” Expect questions — and even some answers — on Tesla’s upcoming Model 3 electric car for the masses, its plans for an electric truck, expansion of its manufacturing footprint, the integration of SolarCity into the larger business, and Musk’s future at Tesla. A request for the Model 3 offered as a vegan option wouldn’t be a surprise either.
And expect a challenge to how Tesla structures its board.
Shareholders  vote today whether to declassify the board, a move that  force all directors to face an annual re-election as opposed to staggered, three-year terms.
The proposal was made by pension funds and has the backing of two proxy advisory firms, Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, which argue that the board is stacked with directors who have personal and professional ties to Musk. The goal is a more independent board that is faced with annual elections.
But Tesla is against this proposal, arguing that its board structure allows the company to focus on long-term strategies “without being distracted by special interests that seek only short-term returns,” the company said in a filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company pointed to several examples of decisions that might have appeared counterintuitive, but set up the company for success, including its decision to be a car manufacturer not just a supplier of electric vehicle components, its acquisition of SolarCity, and its plan to build the largest lithium-ion battery factory in the world.

WhatsApp got a few new features in an update today for iOS, adding photo filters, automatic albums in chats, and the ability to send quick replies to messages.
The photo filters is probably the biggest of the three; it lets you apply a filter to a picture, video, or GIF before you send it. Right now, there are only five options: Pop, B&W, Cool, Chrome, and Film, but it’s easy to imagine that WhatsApp could add more in the future.
Additionally, if you send multiple images or videos consecutively in a chat, they’ll now be automatically grouped into a single album (as seen below) instead of a stream of multiple in-line images. Lastly, you can now swipe right on an individual message in a thread to directly respond to it, which could be useful for group chats.
The new features are available on iOS now; no Android launch date has been given, but it’s probable that they’ll show up in the near future.


Just a few weeks after Amazon opened its drive-up grocery pickup service in Seattle, it looks like Walmart is trialling its own version of the concept with a new automated kiosk at a store in Oklahoma City. The service, which doesn’t seem to have any special name as of yet, lets Walmart customers order their groceries online or through an app and select to pick up the order from a 24-hour kiosk.
Just like AmazonFresh’s concept in Seattle, Walmart’s system sends a customer’s order to a local store, where employees  package their items into ready-to-pickup bags. When a customer pulls up to the kiosk, he or she enters a five-digit pickup code and the machine  retrieve the grocery bags for them, similar to a vending machine. The self-pickup service is free, but there is a purchase minimum of $30.
The automated kiosk — which at 20 x 80 feet, looks more like a standalone building — is being tested for consumer feedback before expanding more widely. Walmart says it’s been working on online grocery pickup since 2014 that’s similar to what AmazonFresh offers now in Seattle, and has expanded the service to more than 600 stores so it is hoping to quickly expand its automated system if all goes well.
Besides, AmazonFresh currently services customers in major cities, including Los Angeles, Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia, while Walmart has at least one location in every state. Given the market size, Amazon might need to do more than offer pickup without an order minimum or offer to bring your order to your car if it wants to fully compete.
Just days before The Mummy hits theaters, Universal is expanding its recently named Dark Universe with two more films. In an interview with Fandom, director Alex Kurtzman revealed that the studio is working on new versions of The Phantom of the Opera and The Hunchback of Notre Dame to add to its already crowded roster.
“We know we’re going to do Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, Dracula, Creature from the Black Lagoon, Phantom of the Opera, Hunchback of Notre Dame, Invisible Man,” he told the site.
1923’s The Phantom of the Opera and 1925’s The Hunchback of Notre Dame were two of Universal’s first monster movies, and they laid the groundwork for the studio’s later films. Pulling the two characters into the Dark Universe shows that it’s going back to its horror roots, even though modern audiences are more likely familiar with the two characters from theatrical musicals or Disney films. However, it’s worth noting that neither the Phantom nor the Hunchback are monsters in any traditional sense, just disfigured men. Universal  likely inject some supernatural elements into their stories so they make sense in a world filled with vampires and invisible men. Still, the idea that Quasimodo’s affliction makes him monstrous  almost surely garner criticism, depending on how the material is handled.
Still, this does show how bullish Universal is with its new Dark Universe experiment. The studio is launching its Marvel-esque cinematic universe this week with The Mummy, and Bride of Frankenstein, starring Javier Bardem as Frankenstein’s Monster, is currently scheduled for release in February 2019. The upcoming films  all center around a mysterious organization called Prodigium, led by Dr. Henry Jekyll (Russell Crowe). While reviews have yet to even come in for The Mummy, Universal is clearly banking hard on its new franchise.
Master & Dynamic is launching a redesigned pair of its MW60 wireless headphones today in coordination with the Bamford Watch Department. This collaboration follows another limited edition set of the MW60s released last month with Leica. Similar to that partnership, Master & Dynamic didn’t change the actual specs of its headphones; it’s just trying out a new color scheme. In this case, it lined the headband with light blue lambskin and put some color inside the actual cans. The optional cable matches, too.
A pair costs $549, just like the regular MW60s. I think the blue elevates the headphones and makes them slightly trendier. I already thought the MW60s looked good, but the pastel blue is very of-the-moment. Some people might think a product is cheapened through constant limited edition sets that are created solely to sell more headphones, but considering that Beats is succeeding because of its wide variety of color options, maybe Master & Dynamic has the right idea.
As you are aware, modern life presents dozens of new venues for finding romance, each with their own complicated set of roadblocks, pitfalls, and potential horrific disasters. People love to wring their hands over these options, asking whether it is even possible to meet a person organically in a physical space in 2017 and subsequently care for them, or if Tinder and its ilk have inured us to each other’s feelings and faces, making the human species more flighty, distractible, and mean.
There are so many questions, and one of them is this: is it cool to date on Twitter? I’m asking because I spend my whole day there, and out of respect for the person I was at age 16, I am nurturing at least half a dozen Twitter crushes at any given time.
I believe it was Drew Barrymore’s character in Never Been Kissed — Josie “Josie Grossie” Geller, a fictional cub reporter for the semi-real Chicago Sun-Times — who best articulated the importance of crushes: they are the thing “you get up and go to school for in the morning,” in addition to your education or whatever. My Twitter crushes are how I make myself get up and get ready for work. Can I date any of them? Should I? The question presented me with the perfect occasion to talk to people who have already tried it, in a one-time-only podcast event called “Four stories of dating on Twitter.” Here we are.
oh...thought twitter is already a dating app pic.twitter.com/Wg0QFspDE1
Recently, The Washington Post published a useful report titled “Dating via Twitter? Yes, it’s possible,” citing the hashtag #WeMetOnTwitter, which has been used about 500 times. That doesn’t seem like a lot, but the report  deploys some compelling anecdotal evidence and discusses the recent advent of the app Loveflutter, which is an awful lot like Tinder except 10 recent tweets are included in your profile. The app has about a million users, according to co-founder Daigo Smith. It seems only logical, actually, that as Twitter eases into its second decade of existing, it would  become embedded more naturally into the social fabric.
If we’re here all day anyway, then why not? Here are four stories that I hope  help answer the question.
Maya Kosoff, a tech and politics writer for Vanity Fair, was the impetus for this entire investigation. The very first time I met Maya, she told me that, for a long time, Twitter had been the only “dating” app on her phone.
I didn’t believe her, and that’s where our story begins. “It wasn’t on purpose,” she says, and yet it happened. In exchange for Maya’s story, I told Maya a story of my own. That’s how friendship works.
Andrew Marino, The Verge’s audio engineer, is a boy that I know. We’re familiar, friendly even, so I already knew that he had, at some point in time, met a young woman on Twitter and taken her out for dinner at the Times Square Olive Garden. I was very curious to learn: how did Andrew pull this off without coming across as a huge creep and getting blocked forever? Whenever I receive Twitter DMs from strangers, I delete them immediately because I’m no idiot.
I’m not trying to call Andrew’s date an idiot. I’m just trying to understand.
Luckily, Andrew is aware that this is a sticky question, and readily admits, “When you go on Tinder or Bumble, you know that both parties are there for that reason. On Twitter, you don’t want to be like a predator, and you don’t want to come off that way either. But there’s nothing wrong with having a crush.”
Here’s the story of a crush and a DM slide:
Matt Ortile, an editor at BuzzFeed, wrote an essay two years ago about falling in love with somebody he met on Twitter, and what happens when someone who lives in your online social circle breaks up with you. Reading his crush’s tweets for a long time before they actually started dating, Matt says, created “an inflated sense of familiarity.” It led to a don’t-meet-your-heroes experience in which getting to know a person he’d built fantasies around resulted in disillusionment.
Is that reconstruction of reality meaningfully different than the narrative-building we do when we meet an utterly contextless blind date for the first time? Yeah, Matt says, it is... and it sucks.
I’m so glad we got to save this one for last. It’s the best, no offense to me or my other guests. Joanna Stern, personal technology columnist at The Wall Street Journal (and former senior reviews editor at The Verge), told me an excellent story in which she met her wife on Twitter and then never had to bother with any of these terrible questions ever again.
From the nerve-wracking opening DM to a marriage proposal sent in a tweet, it’s one of those unlikely stories that doesn’t exactly sound possible to re-create. But it’s lovely, and contains a little piece of advice for everyone: “It’s an important thing, when you’re going to date someone, to see how they are socially and in your world. Twitter actually, in some ways, mimics that.”
According to Maya, dating on Twitter is a great option if you’re “really lazy.” According to Andrew, dating on Twitter is enough like dating in the real world that it’s not much of a question. He had a nice time at Olive Garden, and that’s enough for now. According to Matt, dating on Twitter is only okay if you’re confident that you can keep your expectations in check. According to Joanna, she’s “too scared of the internet now” to really recommend that you try to mimic her success.
According to me, after thinking about it with the help of these four, it’s not “cool,” because as platforms go, structurally, Twitter is probably closer to LinkedIn than it is to a dating app. You’re likely to interact with people who work in the same field as you — people you might one day find yourself stuck with professionally. Dating on Twitter is  not cool if you don’t have the self-control to resist checking a date’s tweets, replies, and likes all day long.
The same way a teenage crush could debilitate you at school, an internet crush can debilitate you at work. (If you work on a computer, that is. Otherwise, go for it!) , if you’re someone who likes to tweet jokes and complaints about your love life, dating a person from Twitter  make that difficult.
On the other hand, maybe dating on Twitter is “cool” if you prefer to re-create something resembling the social network of real life and then choose dates from there. It’s more — pardon me — romantic that way. If Twitter took off as a dating app, it would be the rare one that doesn’t use an algorithm to pair you up. You’d end up connected to people in a way that’s pretty organic, similar to the way you might wind up crossing paths with someone in the offline world: friends of friends, friends of co-workers, former co-workers of current co-workers, a stranger who says one good joke loudly enough to catch your attention, etc. It’s nice to have context for people, or as Darcie Wilder wrote for New Hive last February, “When you’re picking someone from the internet: They already know you. Or they already know who you’re pretending to be.”
It’s almost summer, the official season of taking a gamble, so you might as well try it. If it goes terribly, that’s fine. That’s how most human interaction goes, if you think about it.
The OnePlus 5 is coming this month. Today the company announced that its latest smartphone  be formally announced on June 20th at 12PM ET. As with prior OnePlus product reveals, the “event”  be streamed online. But afterward, there   be pop-up events in select cities globally. For example, a June 20th event in New York City  feature OnePlus CEO Carl Pei and Marques Brownlee. Several other pop-ups outside the US are scheduled for June 21st.
As with the company’s prior smartphones, the OnePlus 5 is expected to feature many high-end hardware specifications for a price significantly lower than flagship devices from Samsung, Google, LG, and other Android phone makers. A dual-camera setup has  been rumored. OnePlus is working with DxO to optimize camera performance, and the company has boosted its customer service operation ahead of its next product.
This time around, OnePlus faces competition including the Moto Z2 Play at the mid-price tier and a brand new entrant — Essential — that’s trying to win over Android fans in the flagship division. Check back on June 20th to see exactly what OnePlus has been working on.
When the developers at Nintendo began concept work on Arms, a new fighting game coming to the Switch later this month, they weren’t sure what kinds of characters it should include. Early on, they toyed with the idea of featuring familiar Nintendo faces like Mario, Link, and even the Wii Fit trainer. But the key to Arms is right there in the title: it’s a game where characters possess extendable arms that they can use to hit faraway opponents. Twelve-foot-long arms didn’t mesh with a short, squat character like Mario. “We thought the best fit for it was to make it all new,” says producer Kosuke Yabuki.
Like 2015’s Splatoon, Arms isn’t just a brand-new Nintendo series, but a first foray by the company into a genre. Whereas Splatoon was a multiplayer shooter starring a colorful array of stylish squid-people, Arms is a near-future one-on-one competitive fighting game with an eclectic roster of pop star-like combatants. (The Arms and Splatoon teams actually work right beside each other at Nintendo’s Kyoto headquarters.)
Arms started as a fairly simple idea — a behind-the-back fighter where players could lob punches at each other from across an arena. From that point, the team started building out the fiction.
One of the initial inspirations was the world of professional sports — specifically their spectators. “Each fighter has these super intense, passionate fans who kind of copy their look and feel, and come into the arenas to support their chosen fighter,” explains art director Masaaki Ishikawa. “This world of Arms, it’s like our world’s football fans. They’re super passionate, and these Arms supporters really love the fighting aspect of this competition.” Each of the 10 fighters has their own stadium-like arena as a home base, complete with scores of adoring fans, some of whom dress in the colors and costumes of their favorite fighter.
Much like a professional athlete, each combatant  wears equipment that serves as a sort of uniform. Whether it’s a man with slinky springs for arms or a green blob that resembles those inflatable towering mascots flailing their arms above a used car lot, each Arms character sports a face mask and protective chest gear. The outfits have a handful of alternate color palettes to provide some additional variety. “With all of their differences, they still have a cohesive aesthetic that binds them to the same world,” Ishikawa says. The sports theme  helped the game — which is primarily about characters punching each other repeatedly — keep the family-friendly vibe that Nintendo is known for. “We worked hard to make the feel of it such that it’s like you’re watching a basketball game,” says Yabuki.
Compared to other fighting games, the roster of Arms fighters is fairly small, but it’s quite varied. There’s a young pop starlet named Ribbon Girl, a beefy undead boxer called Master Mummy, and Twintelle, a classy movie star who punches with her hair and celebrates victory with a cup of tea. In most cases, the ideas for the characters stemmed from a functional standpoint — if the team needed to add a fast character, for instance, or one who was especially strong — though in a few cases they started with aesthetics. In almost all cases, though, the character design started with the arms.
Take Helix, for example, perhaps the strangest character in the game. Helix — the used car wobbler mentioned above — looks a bit like a particularly jiggly chunk of green ASMR slime, complete with a digital mask in place of eyes and a few floppy strands of hair. But his most striking feature might just be his perpetually twisting arms. According to Ishikawa, the look started with an idea to have a character with DNA strands for arms, but the team didn’t really know where to go after that.
“Initially we had the design for the double helix, DNA-spiral shape for his arms,” he says. “And we had a lot of different ideas for what kind of character would have arms like that. Maybe a cyborg, or some sort of man-made being. Eventually we settled on this amoeba-like character design. In the end, we got a sort of biological creature design. Rather than go really serious with how he moves, we thought it would be more fun and unique to give him an awkward, but cute animation. And with that we ended up with a really unique design that we’re really proud of.”
Other characters followed a similar path: they started out as a pair of arms, and their aesthetics and personalities extended from there. Min Min has spiraling noodles for arms, and she fights inside of a giant ramen bowl. Snake Kid not only has slithering arms, but  appears to be some kind of snake / human hybrid creature who participates in a futuristic extreme sport called snakeboarding. Spring Man, meanwhile, has springy arms, while his hair has a similar bounce, and his arena is lined with trampoline-like pads to jump on. “He’s really based around the idea of springing action,” says Ishikawa.
Having such distinct, iconic designs was especially important for Arms because the characters are the focal point of the game. Both Yabuki and Ishikawa previously worked in the same roles on Mario Kart 8, a game that features a roster that’s almost a who’s who of Super Mario history. In comparison, the fighters in Arms are much less well known, but they serve a bigger function. “In [Mario Kart 8] the focus really is on each of the course designs, and how you race on those,” explains Yabuki. “But Arms is more about how you use each fighter and their arms to fight each other. The personality and distinctive features of each of the Arms characters is a lot more important in this game, as opposed to Mario Kart.”
Much like Splatoon, the character designs in Arms aren’t like anything else Nintendo has made before. They’re wild and inventive, with a modern sense of style, like the artists at Nintendo were finally able to cut loose and took full advantage of the opportunity — rather than build upon decades old characters. And just like Splatoon, the cast of Arms has been well-received by fans; the game may not be out yet, but there is already plenty of fan art and cosplay to be found on Twitter, Tumblr, and elsewhere on the internet. The early, positive reception has been a relief to the creative team, who say they “had no idea” what to expect when they began revealing characters, especially since they were making an entirely new world to go along with the game.
“Creating a wholly new property is really tough, but  incredibly fun and rewarding,” says Yabuki. “You have to think of everything from scratch; the sound, the visuals, absolutely everything. It was really rough, but  really fun to try this.”
Arms launches on Nintendo Switch on June 16th.
Cowboy Bebop, one of the best known anime of all time,  be adapted into a live-action TV show from Tomorrow Studios, Variety reports. Thor: The Dark World and Thor: Ragnarok screenwriter Chris Yost  pen the series, while Sunrise, the studio behind the original show, is attached to executive produce.
Cowboy Bebop originally aired in 1998 in Japan as a 26-episode series, though its late night run on Cartoon Network’s Adult Swim in 2001 helped buoy it to success in the United States. Set in a dystopian future in 2071, Cowboy Bebop imagines an Earth that has been long abandoned and humans who roam the stars. The show follows Spike Spiegel and a misfit group of bounty hunters as they search for the next big score and grapple with their pasts.
The series has long been praised for its jazzy soundtrack and tackling of heavy topics, like loneliness and existence. In 2001, director Shinichirō Watanabe returned with a Cowboy Bebop film, set between the 22nd and 23rd episodes of the show.




Major tech companies and nonprofit groups have signed on to a “day of action” next month to protest the FCC’s planned rollback of net neutrality rules.
Organized by nonprofit group Fight for the Future, the protest  include Amazon, Etsy, Reddit, Mozilla, the ACLU, and several others, who have all agreed to show their support for net neutrality on July 12th. In 2014, a similar list of companies agreed to post banners on their websites showing support for regulation.
So far, though, there are few details on what the protest  entail this year. “Websites, Internet users, and online communities  come together to sound the alarm about the FCC’s attack on net neutrality,” the protest website says. “We'll provide tools for everyone to make it super easy for your followers / visitors to take action.”
The protest day is set five days before the first deadline for comments on the FCC’s proposal, a move that  mimics the 2014 protest. Ultimately, the Democrat-led FCC decided in 2015 to use strong Title II regulations to enforce net neutrality. The current FCC, led by Trump-appointed chairman Ajit Pai, is now attempting to do away with those rules.
Today, Amazon announced that it’s offering a discount on Prime membership for US customers participating in a number of government assistance programs. Anyone with a valid Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) card, which disburses funds for programs like Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, or food stamps), is eligible for Prime’s discounted monthly price of $5.99. Prime’s normal price is a $99 a year, or a monthly fee of $10.99.
“We designed this membership option for customers receiving government assistance to make our everyday selection and savings more accessible,” says Greg Greeley, vice president of Amazon Prime. Customers  need to have a current EBT card to enroll and the card cannot be used to pay the monthly membership fee. Those who qualify for the discount can apply once a year, up to four times.
This announcement is the latest in several recent moves Amazon has made to appeal to lower-income households and become a direct competitor to Walmart. Last year, it introduced the $10.99 monthly payment option, and earlier this year it announced the decision to start accepting food stamps for online grocery orders beginning this summer.
Amazon says it is working on ways to include other government-assisted programs in the future that do not utilize EBT cards.
Later this month, Nintendo  launch Arms on Switch, a fighting game with an eclectic cast of characters reminiscent of Blizzard’s megahit shooter Overwatch. While the games are built on different genres, one key similarity between the two is the variety of their rosters. That was by design.
“As this is a game where characters fight each other, we thought that it was extremely important to have this kind of diversity for the players,” explains art director Masaaki Ishikawa, “so that they had something to latch on to.”
The cast of Arms is fairly small by fighting game standards. There are 10 fighters in all, including several who aren’t human. But while the developer says it treated diversity as an important aspect of the character design process, Ishikawa believes Nintendo can do even better in the future.
Related
“Our keywords in developing these characters were the fact that they have stretchy arms, but  their own unique personality,” he says. “So we’re not sure if we reached the level of diversity that we could have, but moving forward that’s going to be something that we take into account with our character design.”
Arms launches on Nintendo Switch on June 16th.
Brown Girls, the critically acclaimed OpenTV web series that debuted on Elle’s website in February, is headed to HBO.
Screenwriter Fatimah Asghar and director Samantha Bailey discussed the deal in an interview with Elle this morning, emphasizing the “grassroots” origins of the project — group brainstorming on Facebook and friends volunteering to come down to the set to do work for free. The series, set in Chicago,  be translated to HBO with this same DIY spirit, Asghar says: ”It's a city that is very mercurial, resourceful, and sly in a way that I love. I want to carry some of that over to television. We don't want a show that is flashy and smooth. We want a show that is gritty. That has this kind of realness to it.”
Asghar is best known for this project and her popular contemporary poetry. Bailey has  garnered attention for another OpenTV web series You’re So Talented, as well as an upcoming partnership with Chance the Rapper and Jamila Woods, coordinating a music video they hope  be directed by a high school student, in collaboration with Chicago Public Schools. Bailey tells Elle that music  be an important part of the HBO series, noting, “Chicago has an amazing music scene and we were lucky to include a bunch of artists in our series. All but one were Chicago-based and all of them were women of color.”
This marks HBO’s third high-profile web series pickup, following Issa Rae’s Insecure (originally the YouTube series Awkward Black Girl) and Katja Blichfeld and Ben Sinclair’s High Maintenance (originally on Vimeo). It’s a move that seems to be doing well for them, particularly in the case of Insecure, which was a critical hit and has already propelled Rae to mainstream stardom. She’s reportedly in talks to write the Tumblr-inspired screenplay for Ava DuVernay’s Rihanna and Lupita N’yongo-led caper film.
Brown Girls is centered on the friendship between Leila (Nabila Hossain), a queer Muslim woman, and Patricia (Sonia Denis), a young black woman, as they explore their identities and contextualize their relationships. In an interview with Jezebel in February, Bailey said comparisons to Broad City and Girls weren’t entirely accurate, noting that Brown Girls “fall[s] in with Awkward Black Girl, with Insecure and Atlanta. These are young people of color who are fully involved in telling their version of their story.”
In today’s interview, Asghar referenced Rae again, saying, “Without Issa, and all the things she did to knock doors open, people would not have looked at us or taken us seriously. She kind of paved the way for us and we can do that for other folks. I hope we can do that for other girls.”
Flir is one of those companies that, even if you don’t know its name, you know its work. Almost any kind of infrared footage that you’ve seen, whether it’s of hot tires in Formula One, or the Boston Marathon bomber hiding in a boat, was captured with Flir cameras. But the company’s been growing a strong set of consumer tools over the last few years, with an increased focus on smartphone attachments.
The newest of those, the Flir One and the Flir One Pro, were announced this past year at CES. They are cameras that attach to your iPhone or USB-C Android phone. They each use two image sensors — the company’s Lepton sensor, which captures infrared light to measure heat, and a regular image sensor that captures visible light for detail — to create thermal images and videos that you can use for everything from home projects to just goofing off. They finally go on sale today at $199 and $399, respectively.
Why the big delta in price? The company sees the more basic, less capable Flir One as a product that satisfies a curiosity. Both it and the Pro have a 1440 x 1080 CMOS sensor, but the regular Flir One’s 80x60 thermal sensor is lower resolution than the Pro’s, and the companion smartphone app for the Flir One offers fewer customization options. It still gives you the basic abilities to do things like measure heat signatures, and essentially see in the dark, though.
The Flir One Pro, on the other hand, is the kind of thing you might be more inclined to buy if you have a legitimate need for the technology. Maybe you’re doing home renovations or fixing plumbing or you need a compact thermal imaging solution for your job but don’t want to spend thousands of dollars on Flir’s professional-grade cameras.
In that sense, splitting the Flir One into two devices was a smart move. People who just want to fool around with thermal imagery can get a Flir One for cheaper than before, and those who actually need the tech have a more advanced option that isn’t that much more expensive.
I’ve been using the Pro for a few days, and it’s a noticeable (if not revolutionary) improvement over the last version of the Flir One I tried back in 2015. The 640 x 480 CMOS sensor found in the old Flir One was good enough to create a legible representation of a given scene. The new Flir One Pro’s visible light sensor has more than double the resolution.
Combine that with the Pro’s new 160 x 120 thermal sensor, and you get sometimes startling amounts of detail when compared to what Flir’s consumer products have offered in the past. That’s not just a higher number on the page. The boost in resolution makes it easier to understand what you’re actually looking at in these thermal images. They’re less likely to just look like blobs of blue and red. The outlines of shapes are more distinct, and people’s eyes, for example, now pop in a very noticeable way.
Now, the images that the Pro’s visible light sensor takes are still a far cry from what your smartphone’s integrated camera is capable of. But you could use one of these photos in a pinch, especially in a work environment where quality is secondary to just capturing detail.
The Flir One Pro has more options than ever for tinkering in the app. But the best thing about the way the app broadly works is that nothing’s ever final — you can always go back after taking a picture and decide to remove the thermal information, or add new temperature measurement points, or adjust the mix of detail and heat.
There’s a lot of control at your fingerprints, even if some parts of the app still need work — the interface for adding multiple heat measurement points is a mess, for example. Flir has spent the last few years building a robust and dynamic system for something that is only ever going to occupy a niche. It’s still not perfect, but it’s better than ever.

Fidgetspin is a one-trick site, designed around a fad likely to fade into obscurity before the year’s end. It lets visitors spin a virtual fidget spinner. No more, no less. Similar to sites like chihuahuaspin, tacospin, or leekspin, its enjoyment is brief, dependent on your discovery, and likely to disappear from your brain the second you click away.
Sites like these continue to exist in their own tiny corner of the web, long after their moment of viral fame as part of the “useless internet” — a term that extends beyond a simple spinning pupper or foodstuff. As a genre, useless internet isn’t even limited by form. It could be a standalone website, an abstract Flash game, a forgotten soundboard. It’s almost always a punchline with no setup.
Like a potato chip, it’s a challenge to enjoy one without craving another. Fortunately, there are thousands to choose from, whether you want to watch a disastrously spilling ketchup bottle, find out whether or not it’s dark outside, catch your hand in a gum fingertrap, stare endlessly at your favorite bucket meme, or watch gnomes party. Thiswebsitesaysitall.com is literally a website that says “it all.” “Endless.horse” is a horse, depicted through keyboard glyphs, that scrolls endlessly. Eelslap.com is an interactive photo of a guy getting smacked with an eel, while Beesbeesbees.com is a looping GIF of Oprah unleashing bees upon a studio audience.
As with any good viral content, they spread by word of mouth online. People share links on message boards, send funny sites to friends, or post them to social media. Through the web’s connected presence, they make the rounds. People move on to other distractions.
A single person collecting them in one place is a Sisyphean task, but a collective is far more suited to the challenge. Over the years, sites like The Useless Web Index have removed the heavy lifting of finding these forgotten sites. They aren’t built like a library, however. Instead, they re-create the context of any bit of useless internet: click a button and you’re flung to a random site in the directory.
A developer from Germany who goes by Martin created The Useless Web Index — a site that touts itself as “the world’s largest index of useless websites” — in 2015. He says it started after he and a few work friends spent their lunch break on their very own time-waster of a site, devoted to a former colleague’s cats.
It began as a database with a subdomain list. “At the beginning there was just a short text and a simple button that promoted a random useless website to the user, but I quickly realized that I had to offer more for recurring [visitors],” he says. “Now users can participate by adding pages, and after a short check they´re part of the index.”
To date, The Useless Web Index houses more than 1,000 sites. About 75 percent of the contributions were suggested by users. Martin says he spends about five hours a week maintaining the site: archiving useless sites, checking mail, logging files, and creating new posts for a “most useless website of the week” feature.
For Martin, the investment is about more than a collection of digital goofs. “The internet is full of useless websites and to me it’s not about how long you stay on one of them,” he says. “Sometimes you spend only 10 seconds and get something to talk about for years.”
Martin has become something of a connoisseur of the useless web. He points to a site featuring a man screaming “Dan!” — a joke that has become a running gag for one of his own friends named Dan. “A perfect useless website,” Martin explains, “has to be simple and straight to the point.”
Martin is joined by a small community that is trying to collect, if not outright preserve, the useless internet. In the mid-‘90s, there was The Useless Pages, a now-defunct collection of sites The New York Times called a home for “ruminations on the Web as a garbage depository.” PointlessSites broasts that it only features sites that are “pointless and useless,” but with a “family friendly” flair. On Reddit, the subreddit InternetIsUseless is home to just over 700 users. Members share sites they find, many of which have a purpose so simple you can guess it from the URL alone, like po.ta.to (just a photo of a potato), or whereisthesloth.com (locate a sloth). YouTube channel DONG posted a video just last month, where host Michael Stevens highlights several sites that serve rather singular purposes, like a “wiki” for muscles or a site in which you try to click in intervals perfectly timed to a second.
Developer Tim Holman launched The Useless Web, a site that redirects users to a random useless site, in 2012. It’s enjoyed cycles of popularity since its creation. “Sometimes someone  create and share a new ‘useless’ website, which  remind people of the useless web, and that  kick it off again,” Holman says. He explains that from March until mid-May, the site has garnered more than 5 million views, with an average session lasting about eight minutes.
“Since its creation, people have spent a total of 1,040 years of viewing,” he says, adding, “Damn.”
Holman says he continues to comb through The Useless Web’s catalog once or twice a month to make sure everything still runs. “Whenever I go through, I try to add more than I take out,” he says. “I've literally received thousands of submissions over time.” It’s been shared by a huge variety of people, he says: developers he respects, YouTubers, internet users old and young. “I think everyone saw something a little different in it. Some see it as art, some see it as a funny joke.”
But as a genre, the sites congeal into something more. “I think [useless internet is a] testament to the creativity of each individual site, and that sparks excitement and imagination in the people using it... which is why I think it’s stood the test of time this long. Damn, that sounds so corny.”
The Useless Web has even inspired creators to add more strange sites to the web. Murat Mutlu — creator of the “Dan” site that Martin is fond of, and longtime fan of viral one-hit wonders — blogged about how it urged him to create his own gag. Mutlu tells The Verge he still pays to host the “super useless” site. “It's that small hit of goodness for a few seconds — doesn't even pretend to want your brain to work,” he says of useless sites. “Get your hit then leave.”
For such a small payoff, the act of creating the site and continuing to pay for a domain seems like an unequal amount of effort. But many creators of useless sites, as well as these catalogers of useless internet, credit this genre as some of the most popular work they’ve ever created. Or, in the case of Mike Bodge, who made the “heeeeeeeey” “hooooooooo” site, the most popular thing he’s ever made online. He calls the very idea of The Useless Web “a bit of a cheeky name.” Perhaps, despite their brief schticks, they’re not as good-for-nothing as they seem.
“All of these sites are useless in the fact that they don't need to exist, but to me these weird, experimental sites are a piece of the internet that we're losing as social network news feeds vacuum up all of people's time,” Bodge says. “The internet is a lot less interesting these days, and sites on The Useless Web are fighting against that by being simple and subversive.”


This morning, Nintendo revealed the latest entries to the Pokémon game family: Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, new versions of Pokémon Sun and Moon that are coming to the Nintendo 3DS on November 17th. Few details were revealed about the remakes, but Ultra Sun and Moon  feature a new storyline and presumably additional features — and pokémon — as well. Expect to hear more about the games at E3 in Los Angeles next week.
The games  launch almost exactly a year after the originals. Sun and Moon debuted on the Nintendo 3DS on November 18th last year, and introduced several changes that made the experience much more laid-back and inviting than past entries in the series. The games rode a wave of pokémania — led in large part by the success of Pokémon Go — to impressive sales, becoming the fastest-selling Nintendo games ever in Europe and the Americas.
The series is  making its way to the Switch — though not in the form of the long-rumored Pokémon Stars. Nintendo  revealed that arcade fighter Pokken Tournament is making its way to the console on September 22nd. That same day, Game Boy classics Pokémon Gold and Silver  be available on the Nintendo 3DS virtual console.
Microsoft has said before that it plans to support mixed reality headsets on Xbox One and the upcoming Project Scorpio console in 2018, but the company won’t even be teasing its VR plans at E3 this year. In an interview with Polygon, Microsoft technical fellow Alex Kipman says Microsoft is focused solely on mixed reality for Windows 10 PCs at the moment.
“We believe that right now a Windows PC is the best platform for mixed reality as its open ecosystem and enormous installed base offer the best opportunity for developers, and Windows offers the most choices for consumers,” explains Kipman. “Windows has been the birthplace of a variety of technologies, and we believe this  hold for mixed reality too. Given the efforts we have underway on Windows for mixed reality, and our belief that console VR should be wireless, right now we are focused on developing mixed reality experiences for the PC, not on the console.”
Kipman’s hint of a wireless headset for Xbox console gaming suggests that Microsoft is holding off on bringing its planned mixed reality headsets to its gaming console. Dell, Lenovo, HP, Asus, and Acer are all planning to release mixed reality devices later this year, but these all need to be tethered to a Windows 10 PC. When Microsoft first unveiled Project Scorpio, Xbox chief Phil Spencer said the console would be “built with the hardware capabilities to support the high-end VR that you see happening in the PC space today.” Microsoft’s mixed messages don’t provide much hope for VR on Xbox any time soon, and the company refused to clarify to Polygon whether its plans for wireless headsets would impact the 2018 promise for mixed reality headsets on Xbox One.
Apple CEO Tim Cook says President Donald Trump made the wrong decision when he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement last week.
After much speculation and lobbying from both sides, the president kept his campaign promise to withdraw, though he said he was open to negotiating a deal that is more fair. (After the press conference, France, Germany, and Italy issued a joint statement saying that the agreement can’t be negotiated, according to The Associated Press.)
Speaking to Bloomberg at the company’s annual WWDC conference in San Jose, California, yesterday, Cook said that Trump “decided wrong.”
“I think it’s not in the best interest of the United States what he decided,” he said. “But in terms of, ‘do you interact with politicians or do you not,’ my view is that first and foremost things are about, can you help your country and if you can help your country and you do that by interacting, then you do it. The country eclipses politics.”
Cook personally called Trump to try to convince the president not to withdraw from the climate agreements. He was far from the only tech industry leader who tried to sway Trump. Ahead of the decision, the execs of 25 major companies’ executives all signed a letter in favor of the agreement that was published as a full-page ad in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Tesla CEO Elon Musk  had hoped that Trump would remain.
In the wake of the decision, Musk has now left the president’s advisory council due to the decision. Many Silicon Valley leaders — including the CEOs of Microsoft, Facebook, and Google — have all said they remain committed to the agreement, and three US states have created a coalition to fight climate change.


Logitech has released a keyboard case for the new 10.5-inch iPad Pro. The Logitech Slim Combo features a hard case with an adjustable stand, a detachable full-size, backlit keyboard and a row of shortcuts, and a holder for the Apple Pencil.
The case doesn’t need to be charged, as it draws power directly from your iPad through the Smart Connector. The keyboard palm rest can be folded under to shrink the footprint (if you’re typing on your lap, for example), or you can fold over the entire keyboard to protect the display while on the go.
The Logitech Slim Combo  cost you $129 for the 10.5-inch version, which is $30 cheaper than Apple’s Smart Keyboard. The company has  made a version for the 12.9-inch iPad Pro, which comes in at $149, a $20 discount over Apple’s keyboard case.
You can purchase the Slim Combo today from Logitech and from Apple’s online and physical stores.
DH Gate is selling a Pokémon Pikachu Portable USB phone charger for anyone who wants to combine their love of this mouse-like electric mascot with a full battery. The plug, spotted by RocketNews24, is currently running at a sale price of $25.72. It includes a USB charging cable and a Pikachu adapter that plugs directly into your wall.
In theory, a Pikachu powering up your phone is an adorable partnership. The adapter’s little ears slip off to reveal its charging prongs. The ad includes a sweet illustration of a tiny Pikachu sticking its ears into a socket (which would feel good, I guess?). And it’s a way cuter option than something like an Elekid, even if said pokémon literally has a plug for a head. But, here’s what it actually looks like in use.
Hmm. I mean it... um. Ah.
Other Pikachu chargers have been made, but I’d like to note that they generally plugged into more PG spots, like its leg. It doesn’t help that Pikachu itself looks so angry, as opposed to its usually sunny smile.
This is not an official pokémon item, and there’s no guarantee it won’t burn down your house. The plug  requires a specific type of outlet that you may or may not have. But if you’re looking for a final verdict on whether or not to pick up this item, let the Pikachu featured in these images speak for themselves.
General Electric has just released a music video about “energy and the flow of it,” featuring a song by EDM artist Gryffin and a cameo by Mackenzie Ziegler. According to a PR rep for GE, the video’s official premiere was at 6AM this morning at a three-hour yoga and dance party at a nightclub in iamsburg, Brooklyn.
Gryffin is best known for collaborations with Scottish pop band Chvrches and Australian YouTube-star-turned-pop-singer Troye Sivan. Mackenzie Ziegler is the younger sister of Maddie Ziegler, the frequent muse and sometimes avatar for reclusive pop star Sia, and both were once the meme-worthy young stars of TLC’s Dance Moms. Mackenzie, in my opinion, was way more fun, as she basically admitted she hated dancing, plus her teeth were a little messed-up and very adorable. Good for her, getting that sweet GE money.
The song, called “Illuminate,” is fine. The video, which “showcase[s] the many parts of the power grid through music and movement,” is hard to follow. Beams of light make up windmills, solar panels, nuclear reactors, and the aforementioned power grid, while the accompanying text reads, “We work to move the grid because the grid moves us all.” The lights from the various GE energy sources outline the dancers’ limbs while they move, implying (in tandem with the text) that GE powers the muscles of human bodies, pulling on their bones. That is true in some situations: when someone’s interacting with a defibrillator, or wearing a pacemaker.
Why did GE do this? Good question. GE sent me this music video in an email with the subject line, “Why is GE collaborating with an EDM artist and dance troupe?” and then proceeded to answer its own question with this: “In the next 20 years, there  be nearly an 80 percent increase in the demand for electricity. As an expert supplier of a third of the world’s power, GE’s role in maintaining the flow of energy through the electric grid is critical. This complex transmission is a choreographed dance that happens invisibly, everyday.” This metaphor works for me kind of, but I’m  a little freaked out now about the world’s energy demands.
Enjoy! It’s 45 seconds long.
Update: Updated June 6th 11:15 AM EST to include media brief from GE.
The next rover that NASA plans to send to Mars in 2020 has a big job to do: gather and prepare samples from the Red Planet that can eventually be returned to Earth. It’s the first step toward a coveted “Mars sample return” — one of the highest priorities in the planetary science community right now. The only problem? There is no second step planned. Currently, the space agency doesn’t have a procedure for getting these samples off Mars and back to our own planet.
That’s a huge problem, according to the Planetary Society, which released a white paper today analyzing the current state of NASA’s Mars Exploration Program. It’s the space agency’s long-term initiative to explore the Red Planet with satellites, rovers, and landers. However, the paper, titled “Mars in Retrograde,” paints a fairly bleak picture of the program’s future. After suffering underinvestment over the past decade, the program has seen cutbacks, such as the cancellation of a few planned missions. And essentially, NASA’s exploration of Mars comes to a halt after the Mars 2020 rover, since there are no official follow-up missions in the works.
The Planetary Society argues that now is the time to start developing new missions to Mars if we want to keep up the amazing science that the US has done at the planet. To continue our study of Mars, we’re going to need a new orbiter to provide communication capabilities, as well as a vehicle to get any future samples off of Mars. And since planetary missions take many years to come to fruition, we’d need to get started on these vehicles sooner rather than later in order to have them ready in the mid-2020s or 2030s.
For now, though, it looks increasingly likely that these new missions could fall by the wayside. The president’s 2018 budget request for NASA doesn’t call for the development of any new Mars mission — and it may be difficult to start anything new in the future, too. NASA is facing flat budgets for the next five years, without any adjustments for inflation, according to a report in Space News. So the funds for new vehicles may be scarce. The Planetary Society says if that’s the case, we could be facing a significant gap in US exploration of Mars in the decades to come.
“Right now we are unconsciously setting ourselves up for a very difficult Mars program in the 2020s, because of all these immediate needs,” Casey Dreier, director of space policy at the Planetary Society, tells The Verge. “We don’t want to have a problem where we’ve prepared these samples and then they just rot on the ground because we’re unable to commit to bringing them back.”
Dreier argues that, above all, the most immediate need is the development of a new Mars telecommunications orbiter. Any future spacecraft we send to the Red Planet is going to need a way to communicate with mission teams on Earth. Right now, NASA has three operational satellites orbiting Mars, but only two — the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and Mars Odyssey — are primarily used for telecommunications. And these vehicles are getting old. Both orbiters have been at Mars for more than a decade and have lasted much longer than the span of their primary missions. By the time spacecraft are sent to retrieve samples from Mars, these satellites may have broken down and have stopped functioning. There are other orbiters circling Mars, operated by NASA and other space agencies, but these satellites are primarily aimed at doing science, and their orbits make them ill-suited for telecommunications, according to the Planetary Society.
It’s not just a Mars sample return vehicle that could use a new telecommunications orbiter, either. Basically any spacecraft that is sent to Mars is going to need a way to communicate with Earth. Currently, NASA is focused on sending people to Mars in the 2030s, but developing a new orbiter would put in place key infrastructure for a number of missions that NASA hopes to complete on and around the planet.
NASA has been studying a number of new orbiter concepts, but the Planetary Society says it’s time to commit to a design as soon as possible. “The ideal timeframe for an orbiter to start is yesterday,” says Dreier. In order to have an orbiter ready to launch by 2022 or 2024, funding needs to be included in the budget for fiscal year 2018. That’s still possible — though the president’s budget request has already been released, NASA’s final annual budget is decided by Congress later in the year. So there is potentially still time to include a new mission, even if, as Dreier says, funding ideally should have been provided in 2017.
Beyond a new orbiter, the Planetary Society says NASA should at least start to figure out how to create a vehicle that can get samples off the Red Planet. And that’s going to be a monumental task. A Mars sample return is going to require a vehicle that can land on Mars and then take back off again, and somehow, the samples  need to be transported to that vehicle while it’s on the surface.
Of course, there are still a lot facets of NASA’s policy that need to be decided, so these concerns may not make the top of the list. The space agency still doesn’t have a permanent administrator, and, at some point, a National Space Council  be formed to help decide the nation’s space policy. It’s still unclear the exact direction this administration wants to take NASA, too. Perhaps the agency could be directed to shift its focus from Mars to another destination. Still, the Planetary Society hopes to make policy makers aware of these problems now, in order prevent a potential gap in exploration moving forward. “We just want people to be conscious that this is a decision that needs to be made and not have it be one that’s made for us by inattentiveness,” says Dreier. “There are lots of immediate problems [at NASA], but this is an immediate problem that has longer term consequences. We’re trying to raise awareness so that we can help this decision right now.”




Among the many announcements at WWDC yesterday, Apple cut the cost of its 2TB iCloud storage plan in half — from $19.99 a month to $9.99. This replaces the now-defunct 1TB plan that was previously offered at that price point.
That leaves three options for iCloud pricing now: $0.99 per month for 50GB of storage, $2.99 per for 200GB, and $9.99 per month for 2TB. Free storage (unfortunately) is stuck at a mere 5GB for now.
That 2TB plan is  potentially more useful, given that Apple  announced that family members using iCloud Family Sharing together  be able to split a single subscription for iCloud storage across every member of the family in iOS 11 and macOS High Sierra.
$9.99 for 2TB of storage is a pretty good deal when compared to competitors: Google Drive and Dropbox charge a similar $9.99 per month, but for only 1TB of storage, while  Microsoft OneDrive maxes out at 1TB for $6.99 a month (although that  includes a copy of Office 365).
The 2TB plan is available now at the new price point, and any users who had been subscribed to the 1TB plan for $9.99 per month  automatically be upgraded to the 2TB plan.
Each June, the video game industry congregates in downtown Los Angeles and, with the help of some very loud house music and celebrity guests, reveals a flurry of new big-budget sequels and a handful of new ideas. And each June, a few weeks ahead of said event, with no EDM or celeb support, I shamelessly attempt to predict those announcements, making informed guesses from a mix of rumors, leaks, and tea leaves.
This year, friends, I  shirk my humility and confess I’m feeling pretty confident. Partly because publishers have vaguely confirmed rumors through investment calls. Mostly because long-in-development video games (of which there are plenty) must be announced eventually. Why shouldn’t E3 2017 be the place Nintendo commits to a new Pokémon? Or Bethesda finally makes its Elder Scrolls-but-in-space official?
I suppose that’s as practical a place to start as any.
With the publisher committed to Elder Scrolls Online, I wonder if it may be a while before we see another formal entry in that franchise. What seems more likely is continued support of Fallout 4, along with the reveal of Starfield, the long-rumored game that transplants the publisher’s role-playing foundation onto a sci-fi setting.
Bethesda filed for a Starfield trademark in 2013, but little has been heard since. However in a recent interview with Polygon, Bethesda’s executive producer Todd Howard had this to say about the studio’s future plans: “We have so many ideas that we didn't think we were ready for. But given our size now and how the tech is coming together, we can do some of the things that we've talked about for a very long time. Now they are within our grasp."
A sequel to Wolfenstein: The New Order has been teased since October of last year (and possibly E3 2016). As for The Evil Within, rumors of a sequel to the horror-adventure circulated in March, following a leaked job listing. My Fallout prediction is, to be transparent, coming entirely from the gut.
But I have some context clues. Bethesda’s Fallout Shelter, a massively popular mobile game hit, was originally announced at E3. What better place to reveal a sequel? Then there’s the question of what comes after Fallout 4. The open-world game cost many millions of dollars to produce, and though it has outperformed the studio’s previous champ, Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, it stands to reason a publisher  want to milk the investment even further. Fallout 5 is unlikely, but maybe we’ll see more of the series in the form of a spinoff, like Fallout New Vegas, or an expansive multiplayer mode, as Rockstar has done with its money-printing machine, Grand Theft Auto Online.
Nintendo has a hit in the Switch, but with few releases on the calendar, the hardware’s future is still little murky. Going into E3, we aren’t sure how third-party developers  support the system. As with the Wii U, the burden  (at least until EA, Activision, and Ubisoft reveal a plan) fall on the publisher. Nintendo can only produce so many titles on its own, so expect lots of remakes and remasters, which are comparably cheap and quick to produce.
It’s certainly possible that a new Smash Bros.  be announced. Nintendo has worked with a variety of developers on the series, meaning its development wouldn’t require too much involvement from the publisher’s internal team. But judging from Mario Kart 8, Splatoon 2, and the extended Wii U catalog, a remake or an “evolution” of a classic Smash Bros. title is more plausible. An updated version of Smash Bros. Melee, with an emphasis on competitive gaming, would fit snuggly into Nintendo’s ambitious plan for Switch to cut into the e-sports community.
EA’s open-world Star Wars game is all but confirmed. Developer Scott Warner hinted at the project two years ago on Twitter. (He has since left Visceral for Oculus, and deleted those tweets somewhere along the way.) At E3 2016, EA showed a glimpse of “early in-game footage” for the unnamed project.
And over the years, EA has assembled big-name talent around the title. Game director and writer Amy Hennig, who left Uncharted developer Naughty Dog in 2014 and joined Visceral the same year, has spoken vaguely about her work on the Star Wars project. Jade Raymond, formerly executive producer on Assassin’s Creed at Ubisoft, founded Motive Studios for EA. It was revealed that her team would be co-developing the project with Hennig’s Visceral for a 2018 release.
I thought EA would announce this project in 2015; surely they’ll give it a name and trailer in 2017.
Since its release last fall, Sony has sold over a million PlayStation VR headsets. At the same time, the company used VR to leverage sales of its new PS4 Pro, promising better virtual reality performance when paired with the superior hardware. Microsoft has already announced a suite of mixed reality headsets. And it has a new console in need of a raison d’être beyond 4K gaming.
Sure, VR may look to some folks like a fad. But if Microsoft doesn’t use a headset to push the Scorpio (and likewise, use the console to sell its mixed reality platform) then the company  be leaving money on the table.
Some math: a new Halo has been published, on average, every three years, and they tend to be announced at least a year ahead of release. Halo 5 was released in 2015. It’s 2017. At the very least, Microsoft  tease Halo 6. At most, it  use Master Chief to champion its “cross play” strategy, promising competition between Xbox One, Scorpio, and Windows 10.
Now that Sony has released The Last Guardian, Beyond Good and Evil 2 is the game most likely to be confirmed every E3 as “not dead.” I won’t go so far as to predict a trailer, let alone a release date. (Creator Michel Ancel has said the game won’t make a formal appearance.) Instead, I expect Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot  whisper, in the middle of an interview, that the game isn’t dead, and they can’t wait to show everybody when the time is right.
This is a long shot. In May, a rumor claimed that an announcement of Shadow of the Tomb Raider would come this year, but after E3. We already knew Crystal Dynamics, the developer behind the Tomb Raider reboot, had moved on to The Avengers — one of Square Enix’s many Marvel projects.
Square Enix said in January that more information about The Avengers would be announced in 2018. But with the future of Sleeping Dogs, Deus Ex, and Hitman in question, Square Enix has few other projects to show from its Western studios. Presumably, it’s still early days on most Marvel projects. But that hasn’t stopped studios in the past from rolling out a flash cinematic teaser.



Update, June 6th: The most recent update adds PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds and What Remains of Edith Finch.
I am a sucker for end-of-year lists. They’re positive, celebratory, and useful. But too often, lists are backloaded with fall releases. A book published in January? A video game released in March? They’ll need luck and a good publicist to score best-of list slots come December.
I empathize with annual curators. Given the constant deluge of new titles, each arriving with their own noisy hype, it can be a struggle to remember a TV show or a film from 11 months ago. So this year, I’ve decided to keep a journal of my favorite video games, a public way to collect the year’s finest.
The format is inspired by Thrillist’s ongoing list of the year’s best movies. Critic Matt Patches only catalogs the stuff he can recommend 100 percent. “No mixed-bags,” he writes, “[or] interesting train-wrecks.” My list won’t be quite as definitive. I love train-wrecks; I live for mixed bags.
I’ll be updating my list as often as I can — hopefully I’ll have plenty of games to add. I’d love it if you joined me in this experiment. I’m opening the comments so you, dear reader, can share your favorite games as the year goes on.
Dates refer to when I began each game, and may not align with release dates. This is not a definitive list for The Verge. I am only adding games as I play them. If you feel something is missing, please recommend it in the comments.
Am I breaking the rules when I confess that I decided to add Battlegrounds to this list before I actually played the game? I came to it, like so many fans, as a spectator. I’ve since begun playing, and while I enjoy being obliterated by strangers, I am certain my interest  last far longer as a viewer than a player.
What makes it astonishing as an e-sport — or any sport — is the accessibility of its rules. Enjoyment isn’t predicated on understanding arcane strategy, impenetrable mythos, weapon and perk sets, or the word “meta.” Rather like traditional sports, Battlegrounds is radically simple: stay in the shrinking field of play, collect materials to survive, defeat enemies, and be the last person standing.
Battlegrounds uses a cliched premise because its familiarity is foundational — similar to the way a sport uses a ball and a goal. A mob of players fighting to the death on a 25-square-mile island is as structurally compelling as it is laughably familiar. Yes, film fans, it’s basically Battle Royale or Hunger Games. Yes, game nerds, it looks an awful lot like Arma and Day Z. Battlegrounds isn’t an original idea, I’ll grant you that. But it is a familiar idea crafted exceptionally.
At Waypoint Bruno Dias writes that each Battlegrounds live stream is imbued with the pace and tension of a horror film. That’s an astute point, but I’ll go a step further and say that it’s Battlegrounds steadied pace that , looking into the long term, allow it to become one of the most watchable e-sports of this decade. Whether you like games or not, the visual language of Battlegrounds is familiar from decades of action movies. And because its action is slow, a video editor can — like the magicians at NFL Films do for pro football — splice together the teamwork of a four-person squad into an thrilling match for an audience of people who’ve never played the game.
Whether or not Battlegrounds is the best game I played in 2017 is irrelevant; it’s the best video game I’ve watched — ever.
Available on PC.
Around the release of What Remains of Edith Finch, video game academic, essayist, and lovable provocateur Ian Bogost inspired a kerfuffle with the controversially titled The Atlantic essay “Video Games Are Better Without Stories.”
“If there is a future of games, let alone a future in which they discover their potential as a defining medium of an era,” Bogost concluded, “it  be one in which games abandon the dream of becoming narrative media and pursue the one they are already so good at: taking the tidy, ordinary world apart and putting it back together again in surprising, ghastly new ways.”
Finch is an argument that games can be both. Shaped like a musky short story collection, the game sends the player deep into the Seussian house of the Finch clan, and its family tree, of which each branch has a tragic end. By spelunking the rooms of lost relatives, the player is launched, through time, to relive a series of final moments. The vignettes borrow style from the kings of horror shorts — Edgar Allen Poe, Ray Bradbury, Stephen King — along with other short fiction masters, like Tobias Wolff and Lorrie Moore.
Finch’s storytelling never approaches the literary highs of its inspirations (a very high bar, to be fair) but it does offer something the writing alone can not. Space. A livable, breathable, touchable space.
Where great literature breaks apart the world, then leaves the reader’s mind to fill in the blanks, Finch offers a meticulously designed space to investigate and explore and experience. Perhaps that sounds lacking in imagination; I assure you, it is not. These pulpy stories feel lived in and immediate, because Finch’s designers have turned them into little fidget objects, and placed them into your hand.
In one of the game’s final stories, you must navigate a dreamworld of puzzles with one side of the controller, while chopping fish heads in a factory with the other. Rapidly, the dream takes over the screen, but the real-world obligation never goes away, nor does it become any less dangerous. The sequence is not subtle: it’s an ode to and warning of the sheer power of games to transport us into new, impossible spaces.
Available on PS4 and PC.
I’ve whined for years about action games that star the same bald dude fighting the same one-dimensional villains, using the same rocket launcher and machine guns. Indie games have been a counterpoint for more than a decade, but big-budget games have been slower to stray from the pack. Gravity Rush 2 is one of a few recent AAA games to break the cycle. All its most powerful characters are women. Its antagonists are embodiments of income disparity and personal grief. And the main character never fires a gun. It has some tacky fan service, and missions can be repetitive, but these are small flaws in a weird video game that’s truly unlike anything else on the market.
Our review digs into the game’s creative use of an open-world environment:
Walls, rooftops, and the underbellies of the constructions are speckled with a pink gem currency that upgrades Kat’s powers and provides the minimum excuse to investigate the nooks and crannies of every building. This would be tedious if not for the game’s ecstatic sense of momentum. Besides falling, Kat has the power to slide across surfaces in any direction — it feels sort of like grinding in Tony Hawk Pro Skater or Jet Set Radio. Slipping up a 50-story clock tower, then free falling over the other side never loses its thrill.

Available on PS4.
I don’t know how I missed the Yakuza series. I raised myself as a diehard Sega fanboy, only shedding my allegiance during the fall of the Sega Dreamcast. As a spiritual follow-up to that console’s ambitious, unfinished Shenmu series, Yakuza floated at the top of my to-do list. But then there was high school, college, my first job, my second job, marriage, and all the other games that I, for one reason or another, prioritized above the adventures of a man with nice suits and impressive back tattoos. Yakuza 0 has been a treat, a throwback to what I remember of Sega games in the late 1990s and early 2000s. It’s a melodramatic soap opera with violence that has the sensory pleasure of popping bubble wrap or cracking open a can of beer.
Our review by Andrew Webster describes the game’s old-school structure:
Yakuza 0 does a lot of things that modern games shy away from. It features cutscenes that can span many minutes, and lots of text-heavy dialogue you’ll need to pore over. There’s plenty of repetition, with occasionally excessive amounts of battles and missions that boil down to boring fetch quests. A lot of the time you’re simply running from one place to the next. It even has long and frequent load times that harken back to another era. It can take some getting used to, but eventually Yakuza 0 settles into a pleasing rhythm. Beat up some bad guys, watch some cutscenes, and then relax with a visit to the batting cages. Instead of making the game feel dated, these aspects give it a distinct sense of charm. It’s not perfect, but it’s unlike anything else being made today.
Available on PS4.
I love the very idea of Hatsune Miku and open-source rock stars. I hope we see more “virtual” musicians, a model that could democratize pop singles without sacrificing a teenager to the music industry in the process.
Hatsune Miku Project Diva Future Tone is the culmination of a solid rhythm-game series that collects music created by Miku producers and fans. If Yakuza 0 is the entry point into the Yakuza series, then I recommend Future Tone for anyone curious about the Miku phenomenon.
Along with Final Fantasy XV and The Last Guardian in December, this winter has been crowded with great video games from Japanese developers. Maybe I should have listened to Kotaku’s Jason Schreier, who’s been tracking the abundance of RPGs and interactive-fiction releases over the past few years.
That said, all four games have an irritating deference for fan service: Cidney’s costume in Final Fantasy XV, the lecherous snapshot mission in Gravity Rush 2, female “pain sponges” in Yakuza 0, and skimpy bikini costumes meant for Future Tone’s cast of underage girls. January’s best games are fantastic in their own ways, but I can’t think of another month in which I was so reluctant to play games while we had guests in the house.
Available on PS4.
It’s fitting that January should end with one more game from a Japanese developer, this time Capcom saving the Resident Evil series from a convoluted mythos and years of regressive action-game design. Resident Evil 7 trades the third-person perspective of previous entries for a first-person viewpoint. What could have been an over-the-top zombie shooter is a legitimately frightening horror game. The dark corridors of a Southern plantation borrow heavily from TV shows like True Detective and American Horror Story. But the game is most indebted to indie horror games like Amnesia and Outlast, which kept the horror flame lit while Capcom floundered with Resident Evil 5, Resident Evil 6, and a handful of remakes and spinoffs.
In our review, Andrew Webster praises the nauseating detail of the scenery:
The Baker home, in particular, is a gorgeously grotesque place, where simply wandering around and looking at things — cages whose use is best left to the imagination, or disturbingly bloodstained bathrooms — can foster a powerful sense of dread.
Available on PC, PS4, and Xbox One.
For a decade, the developer Guerrilla Games and its hundreds of employees spent tremendous time, money, and energy on Killzone, a franchise damned by a generic title and bland premise. A space army fights space Nazi-stand-ins through a handful of games that served largely as graphical showpieces for Sony’s PlayStation consoles. The games weren’t bad, but they were forgettable, largely running towards the goal posts established by the genre king of the last generation, Call of Duty.
Horizon is the first game from the studio since Killzone. Phil Kollar at Polygon wrote in his review, “Horizon Zero Dawn is a refreshing change of pace for Guerrilla Games. While playing it, I couldn't shake the feeling that this game was made by people excited to be working on it, and that excitement was contagious.” And that’s true. But what surprises me most about Horizon is how much it builds of the technical skill acquired through the Killlzone series.
Guerrilla Games learned to design beautiful scenery, write competent human drama, and design a really tangible and responsive form of combat through Killzone. And then, crucially, they didn’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Rather, Horizon feels like a studio unburdened from a flagging genre, a meaningless sci-fi setting, and one of video games’ drabbest color palettes. The result is a creative riff on the evermore popular open world roleplaying genre, set in a fascinating “post post apocalyptic world,” drenched in color, and sprinkled with lovable characters. Horizon is absolutely fantastic, and I can’t imagine it happening without the games that came before it.
Available on PS4.
A game like Hidden Folks justifies this diary experiment. The app doesn’t have hundreds of side-quests, a fully explorable open world, or expensive 3D models. It doesn’t even have color. A black-and-white riff on the hidden objects genre, Hidden Folks is modest and charming. It’s  steeped in a potent nostalgia, albeit in a manner unlike its contemporaries. You won’t find beloved characters or pixel graphics. The nostalgia on offer is akin to that of coloring books, which have had their own resurgence in popularity. Opening the app is transportive, returning you to the time you sifted through a copy of Where’s Waldo, waiting for your Mom at the salon. Or when you combed every page of Highlights at the doctor’s office. Creator Adriaan de Jongh previously designed Bounden, a game that used a smartphone to turn strangers into dance partners. It was a game that asked you to look outward, to connect. Hidden Folks is Bounden’s inverse. A game that has you quietly searching through a tiny collective image from our childhoods. It points you inwards. Yes, it’s cute and silly and simple, but Hidden Folks is something else, too: meditative.
Available on iOS and Steam.
One of my favorite conversations to have with friends about Breath of the Wild is to hear what they don’t like about the game. I know, it’s a cynical place to start, but the conversation naturally ramps to the same positive conclusion: “I hate this specific thing, but I can’t imagine the game without it.” The weapons degrade, but I love the danger of each battle. Thunderstorms turn Link into a lightning rod, but I love to use the weather against my enemies. The world is too big, but I love to get lost.
The love / hate tension speaks to Breath of the Wild’s audacity of design. Its directors have copped to trimming what didn’t work from Zelda, and yes, they deserve commendation for that. (Nintendo, more than most, is protective of its brands and its tradition.) But what I cherish about Breath of the Wild is how aggressively its creators have balked at assumptions about open worlds and a genre as a whole, assumptions that have been calcified over a decade of corporate risk management.
It seems silly to say a Zelda game is risky, but wow, this Zelda took risks that could have been, at almost every step, catastrophes easily mitigated with safer, proven design. When someone tells me they don’t like something in Zelda, often they mean I haven’t liked the execution of this idea in other games. But here, under the right guidance, and stripped to their essentials, rough ideas become polished, and big, risky, sometimes infuriating design is inseparable from an all but perfect adventure.
Available on Nintendo Switch and Wii U.
I met Zach Gage in 2009, when he made an art installation / game that randomly and permanently deleted files from its computer’s hard drive. Gage hasn’t stopped making capital-A art, but his oeuvre has expanded beyond museums and into debatably the most mainstream venue of our time: the App Store. In recent years, he’s released Sage Solitaire, Really Bad Chess, and Spelltower. You have almost certainly heard of one of them, if not played all of them.
What makes Gage’s life as a mobile game designer so fascinating is that it isn’t actually separate from his life as an artist. Gage takes the most familiar and played-out genres (a remake of Space Invaders, an update to Solitaire, a Milton Bradley board game, word puzzles) and contorts them into commentaries of themselves. As such, a Zach Gage game is like a book and a book club, and Gage is like a creator and a critic.
Gage wears plenty of other hats, too. For his latest game, Typeshift, a collaboration with Merriam-Webster Dictionary, Gage has created a contraption that would make a shrewd CMO envious. A puzzle game, Typeshift teaches players by asking them to find words. Words are aligned by shifting letter tiles up and down, each push accompanied by the perfect ASMR click. It’s addictive and edifying, like popping a special kind of bubble wrap that expands your vocabulary. But here’s the business hook: once a board’s completed, a menu provides links to the definition of each discovered word on Merriam-Webster’s site. Merriam-Webster gets a web visit every time a player experiences the slightest hint of curiosity. In two days, I’ve probably visited the site for 50+ definitions. The dictionary gets traffic. The player gets smarter. And Gage, he expands the reach of his art.
Available on iOS.
I’ve played a little under 50 hours of Persona 5, easily more time than I’ve spent with any single game in the past year. I’m only halfway through. When I tell this to friends unfamiliar with games, they look almost nauseous. Don’t you know what can be accomplished in 50 hours? The go to is, almost without fail, Moby Dick. You could read Moby Dick! Twice!
Games can benefit from length for a number of reasons. Minecraft and other “make your own fun” laboratories become richer as their tools become more familiar. Well-designed e-sports — just like traditional sports — demand practice for the pursuit of perfection. Casual clickers like The Simpsons mobile game and the obscure Candy Box play themselves when the player steps away, creating a parallel and exaggerated sense of progress running alongside daily life.
Role-playing games can, and often do, extend beyond the 100-hour mark, but the reward isn’t skill or education; I’d argue it’s leisure. The genre can be loud and big — there are battles and quests to save the world and maybe even kill God in the process — but the pleasure is most often in the details, particularly those that draw similarities to our own world. To enjoy them, it demands you relax.
I like Persona 5 because, frankly, I lack the imagination for fantasy and sci-fi, practically the default settings of RPGs. I’d much rather be dropped into a place I am familiar with, but, because I am a grown-up with obligations and finite money and time, I can’t call home. Persona 5 is set across Tokyo, and while it’s hardly the story of a normal life — you fight mental demons through a portal revealed by a mysterious smartphone app — it does a tremendous job of simply letting the player be a teenager in Japan. I find myself rushing through the game-y aspects, so I can spend more time studying after class, strolling in the park, making friends, seeing and hearing how a different culture passes a year. Or should I say how a band of artists portray the world around them.
With most games, I eventually find myself becoming self-conscious about the time with them. There are other things I could do; I could finally read Moby Dick. But I haven’t had that with Persona. It’s like a vacation, and I leisurely sink into it, obeying the prompt that appears on every load screen: “Take your time.”
Available on PS3 and PS4.
To describe psychedelic experiences, researchers rely on the phrase “set and setting.” Set refers to the mindset and preparation of the subject, setting, to their literal and social environment at the time of the test. It’s widely believed that both set and setting are crucial to laying the framework for a positive and meaningful psychedelic experience. The psychedelic drug is, in the words of Timothy Leary, simply the “key,” unlocking the consciousness to freely analyze the mind and the world around it.
Maybe I’m taking you on a long walk for a small glass of criticism, but I think set and setting are applicable to art, which, depending on where you are mentally and physically, can unlock different experiences and emotions. I know, Mario Kart isn’t magic mushrooms or the Mona Lisa, but it is probably the closest thing that video games have to a universally beloved experience.
Mario Kart 8 was a lovingly crafted game hamstrung by a crummy console that lived in your living room. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is that exact same game (with a handful of tweaks), but now it can be easily enjoyed wherever you’ll enjoy it most. The game is fine at home alone. But when stuck at an airport with a five-hour delay, passing the time on Rainbow Road is almost transcendent.
Available on Nintendo Switch.
A confession: I don’t entirely get French New Wave cinema, even though I faked it through college. Nonetheless, I appreciate one corner of the movement: a handful of critics became filmmakers to criticize capital-F Film with their own movies. They did so with respect for the form, but  with eagerness to deconstruct it, to save it from its worst tendencies. And they often did so with a sense of humor that saved the experiment from becoming utterly insufferable. I think about these directors when I play Nier: Automata.
At first, Automata seems straightforward enough. You are a cyborg sent to fight robots on Earth in a proxy war between aliens beneath the surface and humans who now live on the Moon. Okay, that isn’t so simple, but it’s easy enough to synopsize, unlike the story that cuts a path through the greatest hits of existential philosophy. When you aren’t stabbing and shooting robots, you’re chatting with them about pain and art and vice and sex and being, well, human.
Automata is, in no small part, the product of creator Yoko Taro’s mind. I don’t know Taro’s full resume, but I don’t believe he ever served as a professional critic. That’s fine. His game has more to say about games — how they imitate one another, how they evolve, how they treat life, how they continue to exist even after they’re finished — than most books on the medium.
Automata is a sequel to Nier and a spinoff of Drakengard, two games you’d be forgiven for having never heard of. Like its predecessor, it’s weird and a little messy and surprisingly emphatic, a rarity, as Aevee Bee noted at The Guardian, for a video game in which you kill hundreds of characters. Unlike its predecessor, it’s something of a hit, selling over a million copies worldwide. You don’t need to play either game to enjoy Automata, but to really see it for what it is, you’ll want to play Automata itself many times through. The repetition is criticism of games at large, for sure, but Taro  uses each new playthrough to look further and further inward. Automata is the rarest of games: sharp criticism of itself.
Available on PS4 and PC.
HomePod is Apple’s newest hardware, and the company’s big play to put Apple Music and Siri in the center of your living room. It’s an interesting product, one that seems to be making a simultaneous move against Sonos’ industry-leading, multi-room audio speakers and smart assistant hubs like the Amazon Echo and Google Home.
The problem? HomePod is expensive. At $350, a single HomePod speaker costs more than many of its competitors in either product category. Smart assistant speakers aren’t even close — an Amazon Echo costs $180; the Echo Show costs $230; Google Home sells for $129; and perhaps most significantly, an Echo Dot is just $50. And Sonos’ speakers — which aren’t exactly known across the industry for being the cheapest line of products —  undercut the HomePod when it comes to price: a Sonos Play:1 costs $199, while a Play:3 runs for $299. Only the Play:5, which is hardly comparable from a speaker standpoint to Apple’s offering, is more expensive than HomePod.
Related
Apple’s argument is that the HomePod is worth the cost because it combines smart features and great sound, which is actually comparable to the current market. You can pick up a Sonos Play:3 and an Amazon Echo Dot for the same $349 price. But the HomePod is  limited in ways that Amazon and Sonos aren’t.
Right now, the only music service that seems to be supported on HomePod directly is (unsurprisingly) Apple Music. And while it seems likely that you’ll be able to play music from another service to HomePod through the newly announced AirPlay 2 system, that’s still the weakest music support of any of the HomePod’s competitors, all of which support direct playback of services like Spotify, Pandora, and, in Sonos’ case, just about every music service ever made. It’s the same story on the other side of the divide, too — while HomePod supports Siri and HomeKit, it’s still as locked down as ever. Its abilities as a home assistant are limited to whatever Apple allows you to use it for, instead of the open platform that Amazon has made with Alexa Skills, or that Google would like to foster by allowing developers to build out things for Home.
Meet Apple's adorable new HomePod speaker.
That said, the HomePod is still months from release, and there’s undoubtably a lot we don’t know. Early reports of the sound quality are good, and there’s always the option for Apple to add support for other music services or Siri integrations down the line.
Given that the HomePod isn’t out until December, you’ve got some time to make a decision, and a list of specifications is still no match for actually comparing how each speaker sounds in person with the music you like. But if you’d like to start seeing how things look now, here’s how the various smart speakers and home assistants stack up against each other on paper:
Correction: Updated chart to include TuneIn and iHeartRadio for Google Home, as well as note the touch panel on the Home for controls.  included Sonos processor information.
Apple is bringing even more fitness features to the Apple Watch in watchOS 4. The biggest highlight is support for a new technology platform called GymKit, which  let users wireless sync fitness data between cardio machines at a gym and their Apple Watches.
As Apple noted in the keynote yesterday, when you use gym equipment with a Watch, there’s data on a treadmill that the Watch can only estimate, like distance traveled. Conversely, data on the Watch, like calories burned, is information the treadmill lacks or imprecisely measures. GymKit solves that problem by pairing an Apple Watch to whatever cardio gear you’re using by tapping on an NFC pad, allowing the two devices to sync their respective datasets to ensure that your workout results are accurate on both ends.
GymKit  be supported on workout equipment from partners like Life Fitness, Cybex, TechnoGym, Matrix, Star Trac, StairMaster, and Schwinn. The first models set to roll out this fall. For now, GymKit  sync data from cardio equipment — specifically treadmills, ellipticals, indoor bikes, and stair steppers — but there’s no reason why Apple couldn’t extend this to other types of workout equipment in the future.
That said, while GymKit-enabled gear  be out this fall, it’s probably too much to hope for any of them to show up in my local gym anytime soon.
Uber is helping get the vote out in the UK, teaming up with disability charity Whizz-Kidz to offer free rides to polling stations for wheelchair users. The trips  be provided via the company’s UberAccess option, which offers fully wheelchair accessible vehicles in three UK cities: London, Manchester, and Birmingham. Wheelchair users wanting to take up Uber on the offer  get two free voucher codes worth up to £10 ($13) each, sent either via the company’s app (if they’ve used UberAccess before) or direct from Whizz-Kidz.
In a press statement, Ruth Owen, chief executive of Whizz-Kidz, said: “Exercising your right to vote is such a fundamental milestone in transitioning from childhood to adulthood [...] We hope Uber’s generous move  inspire many young wheelchair users to get out and vote on Thursday.”
The rides  be available between 7AM and 10PM, and Uber is paying for the trips. The company   be prompting all its UK users to make their voices heard in the general election, with an in-app message on Thursday reminding users to vote, and giving them help to find their local polling station.
The iPad has never been a full-fledged computer. At its launch back in 2010, it was mocked for having a large screen without a typical large-screen operating system like macOS or Windows, and it was dismissed as just a bigger iPhone. But, as it turned out, people found a whole bunch of really cool and enjoyable uses for that enlarged iPhone, and even as iPad sales have slowed over recent years, Apple’s tablet has proven enduringly popular among those who’ve acquired one. At WWDC 2017, Apple underlined its commitment to pushing the iPad as its next computing platform, and for the first time ever, it even has me interested.
In all the time it’s been around, I haven’t been able to answer the question of who the iPad is for. It’s often been the wrong question, mind you, as the iPad shows its strengths best when it’s serving narrowly defined purposes and applications: a sketching pad for some, a comic book reader for others, and a great way to show off pictures for all. But with the changes to how the iPad works in iOS 11, Apple is ready to answer the question of who the iPad is for in a bold and emphatic way: it’s for everyone. What this latest generation of Apple’s tablet represents is a maturation into a truly versatile and powerful computer, thanks to Apple’s usual mix of tightly integrated hardware and software upgrades.
iOS 11 is a software update dedicated almost entirely to the iPad Pro. It brings better multitasking, drag-and-drop functionality, access to the device's file system via a new Files app, and even an auto-hiding app dock that works strikingly like the one in macOS. The app switcher from Apple’s desktop operating system has now made its way to the iPad. For so many years it was macOS that was leaching iOS features up into the desktop environment, but with iOS 11 Apple is taking on the harder task of bringing macOS versatility to its mobile devices.
On iPads with 4GB RAM, you can now run three apps at the same time. Two side by side, one floating pic.twitter.com/QQgbQ7xRVo
By itself, iOS 11 looks like a laudable advance, but it’d be an incomplete solution for people who’ve traditionally favored laptops, the incumbent one-size-fits-all computer of choice. People like me. But what’s happened over the past year is a vast, if subtle, upgrade in the hardware capabilities of Apple’s portable devices. The iPhone 7 brought with it the new A10 Fusion chip, which has ungodly amounts of performance and can legitimately rival Intel’s most power-efficient offerings for ultraportables and 2-in-1s. Now in its A10X Fusion form for the iPad Pro, this processor is the key that unlocks a whole new tier of capabilities and functionality from Apple’s tablet.
During the WWDC keynote, I saw the new iPad Pro used with the Affinity Photo app to do some complicated image blending and reprocessing work, and every task was accomplished almost instantaneously. Apple has  upped the refresh rate of its new iPad Pro to 120Hz, which  mean even smoother animations while helping lower latency for stylus input down to a supposedly industry-leading 20ms. And yes, as usual for a new iPad release, the new 10.5-inch Pro model has the best and loveliest display Apple’s ever made.
With performance that’s edging into laptop territory, and now software that’s bridging the gap to a desktop operating environment, the iPad Pro’s established advantages over something like a MacBook or MacBook Pro grow in significance. After the MacBook Pro was downgraded in terms of ports and other pro features last year, I’m now much more open to tolerating the iPad’s limitations in order to gain the benefit of its strengths. That would be things like better battery life, easier portability, and a substantially lower price, starting at $649 for the latest iPad Pro.
One of these new 10.5-inch iPad Pros, with its reduced bezels and still vanishingly thin profile, is much easier to tote around than any MacBook Pro. Reducing the footprint of a device is much more impactful nowadays than shaving a few extra millimeters off its thickness, and I can envision a daily carry scenario for myself where an iPad Pro shrinks the size of bag I need to use. There are some really lovely and small camera bags — like the Domke F-803, for instance — that work really well with just an iPad slotted in, but struggle to fit a proper laptop. Well, now maybe I no longer need a proper laptop if I have something that’s close enough.
Judging by Craig Federighi's excitement, iOS 11 on the iPad is by far the biggest news today. And I agree.
Getting to grips with the iOS 11-powered iPad Pro at Apple’s event yesterday, my colleague Jake Kastrenakes noted that he never felt like he could move quickly and efficiently around iOS before, but the new version is the first one that feels like it could change that. I’m on exactly the same page: iOS has always felt like a more leisurely way to use a mobile device, not quite the lean and mean productivity workhouse that I could sculpt together in macOS. But with more robust split-screen multitasking and the ability to float additional apps and picture-in-picture video on the screen, I foresee finally being able to get Real Work done on an iPad.
Being able to manipulate files in the self-explanatory Files browser is basically the tipping point: I get the extra degree of control I’ve always felt has been missing on iOS, and now I’m wondering exactly what I’d be losing if I switched to doing my research and writing on one of Apple’s tablets. Sure, I’d need to hunt down a good third-party keyboard, but there’s never a shortage of good accessories for Apple devices. By making the changes it’s made in iOS 11, Apple looks to have successfully attracted professional holdouts like me while still retaining its touch-friendly and accessible interface for the majority of others.
The computer I use most often at home is a Chromebook Pixel 2. Like the iPad, the Chromebook started off very spartan but evolved over time and gained just enough of the conventional OS capabilities to feel like a legitimate machine for getting work done. It's still fundamentally built around the Chrome browser, but it  has a file system, a basic photo editor, and a few other niceties that leave me missing only Adobe's powerful editing suite. This article is written on that very Chromebook, and the next meal I have  be paid for with the money I make from that writing, so I'm quite confident in saying that a Chromebook can be a professional computer. So why not an iPad?
Some might point to the iPad’s lack of mouse input or external monitor support, but consider that even a fully specced-out $2,000 ThinkPad wouldn’t have those when you’re cradling it in your lap on a packed train en route to work. And unlike a Windows laptop, Apple’s iOS is designed with touch input from the start, so an iPad has the advantage of being tailored to situations of limited space. The inconvenience of working on the move is the iPad’s great equalizer. That’s  why I’m not too worried about the limited number of apps I can run side by side or the relative paucity of memory on iPads. Those limitations, which Apple is gradually loosening anyway, are less oppressive when working in a truly mobile environment.
Productivity these days comes in many forms and sizes, and I’m starting to buy in to Apple’s premise that the next frontier for it  be the iPad, Pro or otherwise, rather than the MacBook, the latter of which got only the most token of spec upgrades at WWDC 2017. Another thing I notice from Apple’s promotional materials is that in almost all photos of the new iPad, there’s the Pencil stylus somewhere in the vicinity, hovering with productive intent. Of course, that’s not solely Apple’s idea, as Microsoft has pushed the idea of pen computing and 2-in-1 devices through its Surface Pro line for years, and Google has recently  joined in with the S Pen-equipped 2017 Samsung Chromebooks and its initiative to bring Android apps to Chrome OS.
We always knew the future of computing was mobile — because the present already is — but this year we’re seeing what that means beyond just the ever-present smartphone. The traditional laptop clamshell is being broken up, styluses are all the rage, and the lines between mobile and desktop software are being eroded into nothing.
This isn’t the final step to the iPad becoming a computer, but it’s certainly a major one.

Lyft announced a new partnership today with Boston-based self-driving car startup NuTonomy to eventually put “thousands” of on-demand, autonomous vehicles on the road. In the meantime, the two companies said they intend to launch a limited pilot in Boston within the next few months, in which Lyft users  be able to hail one of NuTonomy’s driverless vehicles by using Lyft’s app.
It’s not Lyft’s first dalliance with self-driving partnerships. Last month, the company announced its plan to work with Alphabet’s Waymo on autonomous technology. And previously, GM invested $500 million in Lyft with the goal of eventually deploying its driverless Chevy Bolts on the ride-hail network. John Zimmer and Logan Green, Lyft’s co-founders, are on record saying that they expect the majority of the company’s rides to take place in autonomous vehicles by 2021.
So while Lyft has declined to wade into the thorny mess of developing its own autonomous technology — probably for the best, considering the quagmire its main rival Uber currently finds itself in — it has racked up a host of eager partners ing to feature their own self-driving cars on Lyft’s app.
But if these new partnerships conflict in any way, Lyft wouldn’t say: in a call with reporters on Monday, Green would only say that each collaboration is unique to itself. “What we’re doing with other partners is very different,” Green said. Pressed on how exactly they are different, he replied, “I can’t comment on those other programs.”
A Lyft spokesperson later added, “We are not disclosing the details of the work we are doing with each partner. Overall, we're partnering with leaders in this space who share a vision of solving transportation issues and positively impact the future of our cities.”
What we do know, though, is that even though the Lyft / Waymo partnership was announced back in May, NuTonomy’s self-driving cars  be the first ones available on Lyft’s platform. NuTonomy, which spun out of MIT in 2013 and has been operating autonomous taxis in Singapore since 2016, recently received permission to test its vehicles in Boston. Its partnership with Lyft  kick off in the city in the coming months, giving Lyft users the chance to hail a ride in one of NuTonomy’s self-driving Renault Zoe electric cars through the ride-hail app.
Green said the first stage of his company’s partnership with NuTonomy  be focused on “R&D around understanding the passenger experience.” That  likely include bringing some elements of the Lyft app into the car itself. “There  be a version of the Lyft application running on a console inside the car,” Green confirmed.
Uber has placed tablets in the backseats of its self-driving cars so passengers can see how the vehicle’s sensors perceive the surrounding environment — as well as snap a selfie. Its unclear whether Lyft’s in-car app experience  attempt something similar, but NuTonomy CEO Karl Iagnemma said their plan is to focus on “optimizing” the passenger experience by “sharing knowledge” about how the vehicle is driving itself.
“We don’t really know in detail how riders are going to engage with autonomous vehicles because we just haven’t frankly had that much real-world experience,” Iagnemma added.
It wasn’t too long ago that Lyft’s co-founders were dismissing Uber’s public trials as a “marketing stunt.” But a lot has changed in the past year. Now tech companies see value in normalizing a futuristic and potentially scary-sounding technology in order to get Average Joes used the idea of cars driving themselves. The ultimate goal is safety, but polls show that drivers are wary, if not downright reluctant, about turning over their steering wheels to a computer.
Both Uber and Waymo are offering rides to the public in Arizona. Uber is  operating a small fleet of self-driving cars in Pittsburgh (though the company’s relationship with the city government appears to be souring). And almost three dozen companies have signed up to test their autonomous cars in California, although none have gone so far as to invite average people rides. (Uber tried, and was quickly rebuked for not following the state’s protocols.)
NuTonomy has a Memorandum of Understanding with the city of Boston and the Massachusetts Department of Transportation to operate its self-driving cars within a specific area — but that MOU doesn’t include offering rides to members of the public. Lyft says it won’t launch its own pilot until it has  received the green light from city and state regulators. The company is being careful to avoid the pitfalls that Uber ran into in California, when it was forced to end its self-driving pilot in San Francisco a week after launching because of a flap with the DMV.
“Current regulations in the testing zone don't allow for passengers to ride in autonomous vehicles and we  not launch without explicit regulatory approval,” a spokesperson said. Lyft expects to receive that approval “in a couple months,” she added.


Apple’s biggest announcement at WWDC this week was the HomePod — a Siri-enabled speaker that  compete against Amazon’s Echo. The conference  brought updates to Apple’s voice assistant that should make it easier and more powerful to use, especially in an increasingly tight market that has assistants from Amazon, Google, and other tech giants battling for space.
But no amount of natural language processing or extra functionality can fix my core problem with Siri, and voice assistants in general: I just don’t want to talk to them.
Some of my colleagues love them, but for me, voice assistants just feel intrusive, unwelcome, and downright awkward. I can count on one hand the number of times I’ve deliberately used Siri in five years of owning an iPhone, and each of those were me proving that it worked to incredulous elderly friends or children. The only time I activate Siri now is accidentally when I’m pulling my phone out of my pocket, and my natural reaction is to go silent — even if I’m in the middle of a sentence — just in case it steps in with a response.
Worse still is when it does catch a snippet of conversation and starts blaring over the top of it. My phone defaults to British English, and the UK version of Siri speaks with a posh, slightly stern male voice that sounds like a scary teacher. “I’m sorry, I don’t understand,” he’ll say, somehow making it feel like it’s my fault. It’s like I haven’t done my homework, but instead of homework, it’s adequately explaining search terms to a robot that lives in my pocket.
I like to explain this fear away, and imagine it’s inspired by privacy concerns. I’ve got a point, I think, in an internet age where your web history can provide an eerily accurate insight into your personality and predilections. With a sweltering summer coming up, I idly searched Amazon for a dehumidifier the other day, just to get an idea of prices. Now every single website I visit serves a secondary purpose of trying to sell me a dehumidifier, their sidebars filling up with rank after rank of squat, white, moisture-sucking machines.
In this world, I don’t want Siri to be able to put together a picture of me (or more likely, clarify the picture Apple already has) through search topics, activation times, and even my accent.
But I’ve realized that my fear of voice assistants really comes from a more subconscious place. I’m British, so talking to strangers is awkward already. Talking to weird robot strangers who hide in my house and only come out to chastise me when I talk too loudly is just too much, especially when I’m expected to do so in public, where people could potentially hear me.
That panic is compounded further by the country I now live in. Public spaces in Japan are typically quiet, and they are kept that way through social pressure. I can’t even imagine an existence in which I’d bust out my iPhone on a train in busy Kyoto and use my real-life human voice to ask it for restaurant recommendations. I don’t think it’s a local thing, either — there’s a performative aspect to using voice assistants in public that I just can’t get on board with, unless I really wanted a gang of randoms to know exactly where I would be having dinner that night. It’s something that I think game designer Tak Fujii understands:
Lots of gadget makes you to SPEAK. Hey Siri, Alexa, OK Google, Xbox and so on. Does this feel right to you? I DON'T because I AM SHY BOY.
That’s not to say Siri (and Alexa and Bixby and all their friends) aren’t powerful tools, but their effect can be diminished when used outside of their home countries. My fellow Japan-dweller Sam Byford wrote about the difficulty of using Amazon’s Echo across languages previously, but there are even problems understanding adaptations of the same language.
These things are typically built for English-speaking American audiences, but I speak my English with an English accent. It’s still English, sure, but I speak fast and low, mumbling through words that have mild differences in pronunciation to my transatlantic friends. Aluminium, for example, or router, or Featherstonehaugh.
I sometimes find human American friends unable to understand me — I see them with their heads cocked to the side, knowing that we’re meant to share a common tongue. Robots have even less of a chance, especially when they can’t take facial or contextual clues. They  can’t do what I think my friends often do: simply nod, smile, and ask someone else later what the hell I was chatting about.
Still, I can usually make the machine catch my drift on the second or third attempt, but for those with other accents, it’s sometimes tougher. I bought a PlayStation Camera along with my PS4, (foolishly) expecting it to be an integral part of the next-generation console gaming experience. When I first used it, I called my wife over to watch as I started a game using nothing but the power of my voice. “Cool!” she said. “I’ll try.”
For the record, my wife is from the northeast of England, and she has an accent described in the country as “Geordie.” It’s softened over the years, but she still pronounces words like “book” with an array of extra “oo” vowel sounds, and the word “PlayStation” as “PleeSteetian.” It was enough to confuse my poor console, which tried gamely to work out what she was asking, but couldn’t quite manage it. Of course, the moment we adopted our best California surfer dude accents, it worked on the first try, but the damage had been done. I packed the camera away in its cardboard box and haven’t broken it out since.
I’ve seen excitingly accented friends have similar trouble with Siri — their scouse, manc, or brummie brogue lost on the posho that lives inside my phone. By the time they’ve repeated their speech for the third time, it’s usually easier to just grab the phone and type in the thing they’re looking for.
And really, is that so bad? Voice controls work fantastically as assistive technology, but every company seems intent on invading public spaces, your home, even your pocket with their own special talking robot. The world is noisy enough already — can’t we just have a little quiet time?
Kaspersky Lab has filed antitrust complaints in Europe against Microsoft. Kaspersky first filed a complaint against Microsoft with Russia’s Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS), claiming that Microsoft is using its dominant position with Windows to push its own anti-virus software over competitor products with Windows 10. While Microsoft has made some product changes since the initial complaint, Kaspersky isn’t happy these are enough and has filed complaints with the European Commission and the German Federal Cartel Office recently.
“Microsoft uses its dominant position in the computer operating system (OS) market to fiercely promote its own – inferior – security software (Windows Defender) at the expense of users’ previously self-chosen security solution,” says Eugene Kaspersky, the Russian co-founder of the anti-virus company. Kaspersky claims Microsoft has been removing its software when users upgrade to Windows 10, and enabling its own Windows Defender solution. Kaspersky  claims Microsoft does not provide enough time to fully test its latest Windows 10 upgrades to ensure existing software is compatible.
Microsoft has been gradually improving its Windows Defender anti-virus software in recent years, and with Windows 10 the company has built it into the operating system and enabled it by default. While Microsoft argues this is to protect Windows users, anti-virus makers like Kaspersky argue it's anti-competitive. “We want Microsoft to stop misleading and misinforming our – and not only our – users,” says Kaspersky in a blog post. “We want to see all security solutions being able to work on the Windows platform on a level playing field.”
Microsoft believes Windows 10 complies with competition laws. “Microsoft’s primary objective is to keep customers protected," says a Microsoft spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. "We are confident that the security features of Windows 10 comply with competition laws. And we  answer any questions regulators may have.”
Microsoft  says it has offered to meet with Kaspersky officials to work through their complaints. "We’re always interested in feedback from other companies and we engage deeply with antimalware vendors and have taken a number of steps to address their feedback," says a Microsoft spokesperson. "We reached out directly to Kaspersky a number of months ago offering to meet directly at an executive level to better understand their concerns, but that meeting has not yet taken place.”
Update, 12:30PM ET: Article updated with an additional Microsoft statement.
It wasn’t announced onstage at WWDC yesterday, but Apple’s new Pencil Case might be the most quintessential Apple product to date. It’s a leather sheath for the company’s iPad stylus that comes in four colors. It costs $29, and is described by the company using the usual string of flattering adjectives. “Beautifully crafted,” says the product page, channeling Jony Ive. “A graceful statement [...] cleanly and precisely designed.”
It is a pencil case that holds a single, $99 pencil. Very, very Apple.
In the spectrum of odd products the company has made, the Pencil case probably falls somewhere between the iPod Sock and last year’s $300 coffee-table book. It embodies some of Apple’s better traits, like attention to detail and high-quality craftsmanship, but the overall impression is one of fastidiousness and self-indulgence. It’ll protect your iPad Pencil from scrapes and scratches, I guess, but iPad owners are probably more concerned about losing the damn thing in the first place.
Which is why the Pencil case looks even more unnecessary when compared to its companion piece — a leather iPad Pro sleeve and built-in Pencil holder. This seems like a genuinely useful product, because a) people need cases for their tablets, and b) it keeps the iPad and Pencil together. You get the same pleasing colors and leather craftwork, but  some actual functionality. Although at $129, it seems you can’t dodge the Apple price tag.


Probably the biggest critique of OnePlus, the small Chinese company that has garnered global hype and acclaim with its Android phones, is that its customer service is not good enough. OnePlus phones are often great, but the experience of owning one and dealing with a fault or needing a repair has not been so hot for everyone. So now, in an unconventional move, OnePlus is building hype for its next phone by showing how much its customer service department has grown and how important it considers aftersales care to be.
The company has clearly expanded the number of staff it has in its customer service department, and it now offers some degree of multilingual support for local markets. More importantly, though, OnePlus now has repair centers in the United States and Europe, which greatly accelerates the turnaround time on handling any issues with devices.
Honestly, customer care is the unglamorous stuff that doesn’t spark much hype or attention before the launch of a new device, but it certainly matters over the full course of owning one. It’s good to see OnePlus addressing what has historically been a weakness. And hey, if you want something to salivate about with regard to the OnePlus 5, the company’s newly announced partnership with camera experts DxO bodes well for improving one of the critical components of any modern smartphone.
Alongside the announcement of a bunch of gaming computers today, HP is introducing a series of accessories so that it can try to sell gamers the entire package. That includes two displays, a gaming mouse, a mechanical keyboard, and an external GPU enclosure.
The external GPU may be the standout of the bunch (at the very least, it takes up the most room). It’s called the HP Accelerator, and it’s mostly just a big box with a power supply and space to hold a single graphics card and a hard drive. It  includes several additional ports, including four USB 3.0 and a single USB-C, and connects to a laptop over Thunderbolt 3.
Products like the Accelerator are meant to be plugged into a laptop to transform it into a much more powerful machine. It lets you leave some of the power of a desktop at home, while still running everything off of a relatively standard laptop.
HP’s solution is a pretty nice alternative to something like Razer’s Core. It’s not clear yet if it’ll support the same breadth of graphics card options, but HP’s Accelerator stands out for including a slot for an external hard drive, too. It’s  much cheaper, at $299.99
Unfortunately, HP isn’t going to guarantee the Accelerator  work with anything but its own laptops. Mike Nash, who heads HP’s consumer PC division, says that there's been too much variation in how Thunderbolt is used for HP to make any promises about compatibility with other companies' PCs.
Still, it’s a nice option for gamers using HP’s equipment. And it could be useful for anyone who wants to do video editing at their desk, too. The Accelerator goes on sale in August.
HP is  launching two displays for gaming. A 25-inch display with AMD’s FreeSync, 1080p resolution, and two USB 3.0 ports  be available for $279.99. Then stepping way up, there’ll be the 27-inch model with a QHD display, those same two USB ports, and Nvidia’s G-Sync. HP says response time can get as low as 1 millisecond on both. The 27-inch goes on sale this week, and the 25-inch comes out at the end of the month.
And finally, HP is  launching a gaming mouse and a mechanical keyboard. The keyboard has Cherry MX Red switches and sells for $129.99. And HP now has its own mouse, instead of a co-branded SteelSeries model like it launched last year. The new model has adjustable weights and  sell for $59.99. Both accessories launch today.
Alongside the announcement of a bunch of gaming computers today, HP is introducing a series of accessories so that it can try to sell gamers the entire package. That includes two displays, a gaming mouse, a mechanical keyboard, and an external GPU enclosure.
The external GPU may be the standout of the bunch (at the very least, it takes up the most room). It’s called the HP Accelerator, and it’s mostly just a big box with a power supply and space to hold a single graphics card and a hard drive. It  includes several additional ports, including four USB 3.0 and a single USB-C, and connects to a laptop over Thunderbolt 3.
Products like the Accelerator are meant to be plugged into a laptop to transform it into a much more powerful machine. It lets you leave some of the power of a desktop at home, while still running everything off of a relatively standard laptop.
HP’s solution is a pretty nice alternative to something like Razer’s Core. It’s not clear yet if it’ll support the same breadth of graphics card options, but HP’s Accelerator stands out for including a slot for an external hard drive, too. It’s  much cheaper, at $299.99
Unfortunately, HP isn’t going to guarantee the Accelerator  work with anything but its own laptops. Mike Nash, who heads HP’s consumer PC division, says that there's been too much variation in how Thunderbolt is used for HP to make any promises about compatibility with other companies' PCs.
Still, it’s a nice option for gamers using HP’s equipment. And it could be useful for anyone who wants to do video editing at their desk, too. The Accelerator goes on sale in August.
HP is  launching two displays for gaming. A 25-inch display with AMD’s FreeSync, 1080p resolution, and two USB 3.0 ports  be available for $279.99. Then stepping way up, there’ll be the 27-inch model with a QHD display, those same two USB ports, and Nvidia’s G-Sync. HP says response time can get as low as 1 millisecond on both. The 27-inch goes on sale this week, and the 25-inch comes out at the end of the month.
And finally, HP is  launching a gaming mouse and a mechanical keyboard. The keyboard has Cherry MX Red switches and sells for $129.99. And HP now has its own mouse, instead of a co-branded SteelSeries model like it launched last year. The new model has adjustable weights and  sell for $59.99. Both accessories launch today.
HP got back into gaming last year with the debut of its Omen line of gaming PCs, and today the product line is getting a series of updates. The most notable is a backpack PC for VR gaming, but HP is  releasing three much more traditional PCs with brand-new designs: a desktop, a 15-inch laptop, and a 17-inch laptop.
The Omen Desktop is meant to be a really scalable option for gamers who don't feel like building their own machine. It starts at $899 and includes a GeForce GTX 1050 graphics card and a choice between Intel’s Core i and AMD’s Ryzen processors. The desktop can be configured up to nearly $3,000, at which point it’ll have dual GTX 1080 Tis or dual Radeon RX 580s.
There are a few nice tweaks to this year's design of the Omen Desktop. It has two cold swappable hard drive slots on the front; its side can just pop open for tinkering; and it can now be configured with dual graphics cards, unlike last year’s model. The new desktop goes on sale June 6th.
HP is  releasing new designs for its 15- and 17-inch Omen Laptops. They look even more gamer-y than they did last year, with what HP describes as “fighter jet and spacecraft-inspired designs.” They  not make you many friends at coffee shops.
The 15-inch model can be configured with up to either a Radeon RX 550 or a GeForce GTX 1060; the 17-inch model maxes out at a GTX 1070 or RX 580. Both laptops have Kaby Lake chips, a red keyboard backlight, and several display options: 4K, 1080p with G-Sync, or 1080p with FreeSync. The laptops’ hard drives and RAM are  user upgradable.
Both laptops go on sale June 28th. The 15-inch starts at $999.99, and the 17-inch starts at $1,099.99. At those starting prices, they’re avoiding some of the more formidable gaming laptops — but that  means that, like the Omen Desktop, they seem to be designed more to scale up to many different price and power points, rather than optimize for one sweet spot.
Correction June 6th, 11:27AM ET: The Omen Desktop’s hard drives are cold swappable, not hot swappable, as initially stated.
HP has reworked the backpack PC concept it unveiled last year and is now ready to put the computer on sale.
The Omen X Compact Desktop is a surprisingly slim and light gaming PC that's meant to be strapped to your back and used for VR. The idea sounds strange, but several companies have been trying it out as a way to let gamers to walk around in virtual reality without tripping over the many cables that need to stretch from a VR headset back to a PC.
HP has made some design changes since it first unveiled the backpack PC last year, opting for a (relatively) more toned-down style.
But the single biggest change is the introduction of a dock for the computer, which transforms it into a standard desktop PC. It's a smart addition that makes the Omen X Compact seem less frivolous and solves the concept model’s biggest problem: the PC is no longer just for VR — you can now set it down and use it for desktop gaming (or general computing), too. You could do that without the dock, but the dock allows for a monitor, keyboard, and other accessories to stay plugged in, making it a lot more convenient.
I got to wear the Omen X Compact for a few minutes during a briefing last month, and I was surprised at just how small and light the PC was. It’s very possible the weight would get more noticeable over the course of a prolonged gaming session, but in the few minutes I was standing around in it, I hardly noticed I had it on.
HP is outfitting the Omen X Compact with Kaby Lake i7 processor options and a GeForce GTX 1080. It’s  pretending like you might buy this PC for reasons other than VR — in case you really want a PC that mounts on a detachable pedestal / dock, I guess — and so the computer itself is being sold separately from the backpack parts needed to take it portable. The computer alone  start at $2,499, and the backpack accessory starts at $599.99. Both  be available in July.
The Omen X Compact won’t be the only backpack PC available when it launches. But HP’s addition of the dock goes a long ways toward making it easier to buy into this form factor, which could be enough to give it the edge for any gamers interested in this experimental new shape of PC.
Google is launching an educational program designed to teach kids about phishing, internet harassment, passwords, and other internet safety issues. Called “Be Internet Awesome,” it includes a classroom curriculum and a video game called Interland. It was developed with help from teachers, YouTube videographers, and internet safety and literacy organizations, and resources are available online for free.
Be Internet Awesome tackles topics that are relevant to all ages, though it’s seemingly aimed at younger children. It includes sections on how to limit sharing personal information with people online, avoid falling for scams or phishing attacks, creating strong passwords, and avoiding negative behavior online. (It includes a “Be Internet Awesome Pledge” that students can sign.) Google says the program is compliant with International Society for Technology in Education standards, awarded to programs that promote a range of tech-savvy skills.
In this case, that happens through a range of quizzes, role-playing activities, and other abstract exercises. For the “Share with Care” module, students look at a made-up social media profile and cross out information that a parent, employer, or future self might look poorly upon. In “Don’t Fall for Fake,” they decide whether a series of webpages and emails look real or fake. And “It’s Cool to be Kind” urges kids to avoid responding or reacting to hurtful messages, as well as block and report bullies.
Interland, the accompanying video game, seems less like a training tool and more like a sweetener that could get students interested in the material. “Mindful Mountain,” for example, turns the process of sharing specific posts with the right people into a spatial puzzle. (It  works as a grim commentary on how opaque social network privacy settings can be, although that’s never mentioned.) Players promote positivity in a platforming game by tossing out friendly emoticons and hitting the “block” button to trap trolls. The password security game is a Temple Run-style endless runner about collecting letters and symbols.
This is only the latest in Google’s string of educational programs, which range from promoting Chromebooks in the classroom to offering virtual reality field trips through Google Cardboard. (Interland  uses a low-poly aesthetic that  be familiar to Daydream VR users.)
As someone who’s not a trained educator, I can’t pass judgment on this curriculum. Everybody could stand to be a little more cautious about phishing, but anti-bullying programs, of which “Cool to be Kind” is a subset, vary in effectiveness. Even if this is effective for teaching students the basic principles of internet use, we don’t know how well it  translate into real-world social media use. But at the very least, it’s a non-alarmist take on internet safety — even if I might rather teach my kid about hacking with the Mr. Robot game.
Apple CEO Tim Cook says the company has been cooperating with the UK government following a string of terrorist attacks in the country. The news that Apple is assisting UK law enforcement is not surprising, but it comes at a pivotal time. Prime Minister Theresa May has been demanding new digital regulations to combat extremism following a terrorist attack in London last weekend, and Apple has previously been criticized by the UK government for its support of end-to-end encryption.
Speaking to Bloomberg, Cook said: “We’ve been cooperating with the UK government not only in law enforcement matters, but on some of the attacks — and I can’t speak in detail about that.”
Cook’s comments implied that the status quo of digital surveillance was sufficient for investigations. He said that Apple responded promptly to all requests for data from the police (when, he added, “They’ve gone through the lawful process”) and added that he hoped law enforcement “would say that we’ve been cooperating well.”
Cook said that, despite objections by the UK government to the use of end-to-end encryption in apps like iMessage and WhatsApp, there was lots of information tech companies could share in the form of metadata. This does not include the content of messages, but the context — when they were sent, from where, and to who. “Metadata, if you’re putting together a profile, is very important,” said Cook.
Three terrorist attacks in the last three months have resurfaced the issue of online surveillance and regulation in the UK. The current Conservative government has consistently demanded new powers in this domain, and last year introduced legislation that would — hypothetically — allow it to force companies to break encryption protocols. However, the political costs of doing so might be steep, and at this point both government and industry simply seem to be talking up their respective positions. After this week’s UK general election is over, though, the conversation is bound to move forward.
Although we were rebuffed at Apple’s main demo area at WWDC today, we did get a chance to go listen to the HomePod later on. In a controlled demo with specific songs designed to show off the HomePod’s strengths, we heard it do some pretty impressive audio tricks. We couldn’t test Siri or pick our own tracks, but we did get to hear it both individually and set up as a pair of stereo speakers.
I’m no audio expert, so my colleagues Vlad and Nilay  surely take me to task for the words I’m about to type, but here goes. The main thing to know is that Apple has done a remarkably good job finding ways to get its speaker to feel like it’s filling a room with sound. It starts with the subwoofer, which delivers bass that doesn’t quite hit you in the chest but does manage to put other smart speakers like the Echo or Google Home to shame. It’s obviously no standalone subwoofer, but it outperforms what you’d expect from a speaker of this size.
The other thing to know is that Apple is doing something interesting with those seven tweeters. Over the course of a few songs, Apple explained the the HomePod isn’t trying to do anything cheap like create artificial stereo by bouncing the left and right channels in different directions. Rather it’s trying to separate out different aspects of the music. Apple referred to the “ambient” parts like background piano music as distinct from the more central parts like the vocals.
Basically, Apple is claiming that, using the microphones, the speaker can work out the shape of the room and then beamform different parts of the song to different areas. So the vocals get pumped straight out into the center of the room while the “ambient” bits get bounced off the wall. I can’t speak to the proper audiophile terms for what they’re talking about, but I can say that it sounded pretty immersive and impressive in person.
That’s not really a surprise — this is called the HomePod, after all, and it seems like it was designed for music rather than as a vehicle for some vision of ambient computing. Siri  be here when it launches in December, but even onstage Apple referred to its assistant as a “musicologist” first and an assistant second.
Apple  paired up a second HomePod for true stereo separation and the sound there  was, er, twice as good. I don’t know that anybody is going to be able to justify buying two of these for a home theater setup, but there are probably some Apple and AirPlay fans who  think about it.
We  heard the sound quality up against an Amazon Echo and a Sonos Play:3 — obviously the HomePod came out on top — but I’m not sure how much credence to lend to that part of the demo. For one thing, the audio from the Echo was playing over Bluetooth. Now I have zero problems saying that the HomePod sounds way better than an Echo, but it’s still not a direct comparison. As far as the Sonos is concerned, I’m not 100 percent sure it was tuned using Sonos’ TruePlay room tuning. The Sonos Play:3 isn’t really the best-sounding Sonos speaker, but I know it can pull off better audio than what I heard today.
Regardless, the takeaway here is that when it comes to smart speakers, the HomePod is likely to be head and shoulders above its direct competitors, the Echo and Google Home. For the price and size, you should expect that, and Apple delivered.
Oh, one last interesting note: the units we listened to had big + and - buttons on the top, not the Siri waveform. The Siri glow is what you should expect to get, but it seems like you  be able to tap the top of the speaker to adjust volume directly instead of controlling everything with Siri or sliders on your iPhone.
At WWDC 2017, Apple is set to announce Business Chat, a feature that looks to be a direct shot at customer service messaging platforms like Facebook Messenger and Twitter’s DM support. Not a whole lot of details are currently available from the official website other than customers  be able to start a chat with businesses by searching for them from Siri, Spotlight, Safari, or Maps. So if Apple can get businesses to sign on, that  help iOS users avoid the need to have Messenger or Twitter installed in order to start interacting (i.e., file complaints) with various companies’ customer service departments.
In a preview screenshot Apple provided, a dad has messaged Apple from his phone to discuss buying an iPad for his daughter. The responder appears to be a real person (he introduces himself by name) which is similar to how Twitter currently handles customer service support. (Typically Twitter-based support team members sign off with their initials to let the customer know who is handling their case.)
Apple  says there  be built-in features like Apple Pay and calendar integration, which  allow Business Chat to facilitate purchases without requiring the user to exit the chat. Facebook’s Messenger for Business announced a similar integration back in 2015. China’s WeChat has long had a feature like this as well.
We’ll find out more details on how exactly this works when Apple officially unveils Business Chat in a session on June 9th. For now, the feature is available in an iOS 11 developer preview.
Apple today announced that, as part of its updated Metal 2 graphics tech in macOS High Sierra, that Macs would soon support external GPUs via the Thunderbolt 3 port. This paves the way for virtual reality development on lighter-weight laptops and  opens up the possibility that Mac users  some day be able to plug in and play with VR headsets. Steam owner Valve  announced today that it’s made SteamVR available for Mac in beta.
To help developers get started, Apple has  started selling its very own external graphics enclosure to developers. The idea is to give Mac owners who’ve always wanted and needed a bit more horsepower the extra juice required to work on graphically intensive VR and 3D applications and games. This all seems to work only in the beta version of macOS High Sierra, which is now available. However, an Apple preview page for the new OS says external GPU support might not arrive for everyday consumers until spring of 2018.
That said, the Apple-approved enclosure on the company’s website is a Sonnet external GPU chassis with Thunderbolt 3 support and a 350-watt power supply. The package comes with a AMD Radeon RX 580 8GB graphics card, which is a VR-ready GPU. Developers   get $100 toward a HTC Vive headset to use for VR purposes. You have to be a member of the Apple Developer Program to even be eligible to purchase the kit.
This is what the VR stations at #wwdc2017 look like. MacBook, GPU Enclosure, Vive. pic.twitter.com/nQ8n8pPmlP
This is all a promising start to bringing the Mac platform up to speed for the VR community. But there’s still a lot of work that needs to be done before developers, and especially consumer, can look at Apple’s platform as a viable place to create and consume VR content. At least in the short term, when external GPU support does launch, the MacBook and iMac line might just become more viable gaming machines.
I just spent a moment with Apple’s new HomePod intelligent speaker, which kind of looks like a mesh-wrapped Mac Pro. It comes in black and white, and it’s cute. Like a cute little ovoid thing. It has seven tweeters in the bottom, along with a four-inch woofer, and six microphones at the top. It’s about the size of two large grapefruits stacked on top of each other, I guess, if I needed to describe it. Smaller than a breadbox, anyway.
When you say “Hey, Siri,” it lights up at the top with a little waveform, and you can ask for a lot of Siri-type things, like reminders, timers, and random questions. Or at least, it’s supposed to do that. In the “demo” area, I looked around at all the Apple representatives, said “Hey, Siri” in a clear voice, and all I heard in response was the sound of their laughter. Nice try, Dieter.
The bit on top that lights up is neat, though. It looks a lot like the waveform you see on Siri when you speak to it on your phone — though, of course, this doesn’t look like a complete LCD here. You won’t be getting any visual answers out of the HomePod.
There’s  an A8 chip inside that does automatic EQ and echo cancellation with beamforming for the tweeters — it detects the size and shape of a room to tune the best sound. Again, this isn’t something Apple is showing in the demo area, but given the company’s ability to make great hardware, I bet it works well. I’m actually more curious to know how Apple is handling multi-room setups — something no company not named “Sonos” has really figured out.
Apple’s  promoting the privacy aspects of the HomePod — it doesn’t send anything to Apple until you say “Hey Siri,” and then it sends data using an anonymous encrypted Siri ID. We’ll have to learn a lot more about what that means, of course.
Apple’s billing the HomePod as a home music speaker first of all, connecting it to the iPod, iPhone, Apple Music, and AirPods. So there’s a lot of focus on Apple Music integration. Even still, with integrated microphones and Siri, it obviously competes with Amazon’s various Echo devices and Google Home, and Apple hasn’t really discussed in detail how Siri and HomeKit  match the extensibility of those platforms. But it’s exciting, and we’ll see when it ships in December for $349.
Unfortunately, that’s about all we can say about this thing for now. The HomePods are here in the demo area, but they’re nonfunctional beyond lighting up. I plan on going back into the demo zone and hollering “Hey Siri” again, and I’ll report back if anything there changes.

Apple’s latest desktop powerhouse is a pro variant of its all-in-one iMac, which  start shipping in December starting at $4,999. The device has all sorts of top-notch specs, including a Xeon processor that scales up to 18 cores and an all-new AMD Radeon Vega GPU.
But the computer’s most aesthetically pleasing perk happens to be an all-new space gray finish alongside space gray accessories, which we’ve never seen from Apple before. Unfortunately, the company says these new color options for the wireless Magic Mouse, Magic Trackpad, and Magic Keyboard  be restricted to buyers of the iMac Pro, according to 9to5Mac.
That’s a huge bummer, considering how sleek and much-needed a black option is. Of course, Apple has been known to take hardline stances on certain design aspects, choosing to restrict certain color choices to distinct price tiers. But this is a whole other level of unnecessary, especially when you factor in just how many customers would shell out for mice and keyboards in a color beyond bland Apple white.
Apple  confirmed to 9to5Mac that the iMac Pro  not have user-replaceable RAM, which is perhaps equally disappointing but much less surprising. The company currently allows users to replace the RAM on its 27-inch 5K iMac model, but not on the 21.5-inch one. So it’s pretty in line with Apple’s stance on part swapping to have gone the more restrictive route with the iMac Pro. The good news: you can configure the device to have up to 128GB of ECC RAM (if you’re ing to spend a fortune), which is specifically designed to protect against data loss and corruption. The base model, however,  start at 32GB.
Chris Hemsworth’s Marvel Cinematic Universe character Thor was an integral part of the first Avengers movie, but as the shared-world series has continued, he’s been moved out of the main storyline in preparation for his sidebar movie, Thor: Ragnarok. In an Instagram video Hemsworth posted today, he pouted a little about that. While supposedly on a set visit for Avengers: Infinity War, which began shooting back in January 2017, he  took out his frustrations on action figures of the Avengers.
Just stumbled across a little secret Avengers rehearsal by the @therussobrothers
A post shared by Chris Hemsworth (@chrishemsworth) on Jun 5, 2017 at 9:25am PDT
Poor guy. But what else could this short be telling us that ordinary fans might be missing? We live in an era where any piece of franchise-related media is worth picking over for deeper meaning and possible hints at what’s to come. Here, it seems pretty clear that Hemsworth, one of the biggest stars on the planet, doesn’t mind playing with action figures. But what if we went deeper? I asked The Verge staff about the kinds of speculative clickbait stories we could launch after watching this video. Here’s where we landed.
(We don’t actually have any intention of reporting these stories. This is just us pitching ideas after having too much caffeine — and seeing too many terrible headlines from people extrapolating movie theories out of virtually no evidence.)
Did Chris Hemsworth just confirm Captain America's death in the next Marvel film?
Marvel has a problem with killing off its bankable characters. This Instagram video from Chris Hemsworth shows the studio may finally be ing to change course.
Captain American is an idiot, says Hemsworth
Are Chris Hemsworth and Chris Evans feuding? Based on this video, maybe!
Guns aren't cool, says Chris Hemsworth
Chris Hemsworth takes a subtle, yet provocative stance against gun violence in his latest Instagram post.
New set video proves Thor would win a fight against all the MCU heroes
See Thor take down Iron Man, Captain America, and Spider-Man in 10 seconds flat in this exciting behind-the-scenes leaked video!
Chris Hemsworth proves he's the best of the Chrises with this one Instagram video
Even though Chris Pine is getting all the attention right after his turn in Wonder Woman, Chris Hemsworth is putting up a fight.
Chris Hemsworth launches major feud with Russo brothers: “thanks for nothing, losers"
Avengers: Infinity War is currently in production, but one of its stars may want out.
Just days before Apple’s WWDC 2017 event kicked off, Foxconn employees dumped a bunch of rumors on Reddit, signaling tons of new hardware to come from the Cupertino-based company. From new iPhones to an AR glasses, the leaks suggested that there were quite a few hardware news to watch for. But just how many of them did Apple actually reveal in the opening keynote?
If you missed it, here’s a supercut of the entire two-hour keynote edited down to a snack-sized 19 minutes featuring iOS 11, iMacs, HomePod, and more. And when you’re done, you can check out more detailed looks at each story here.
iOS 11 isn’t coming out until this fall, but Apple had the preview loaded up on its new 10.5-inch iPad Pro today for members of the press to check out. I got to the play with the operating system for a few minutes while handling the tablet, and what stands out the most is just how complicated it’s starting to feel — but in a way that shows the platform is evolving, not getting harder to use.
The biggest updates in iOS 11 are on the iPad. And for once, iOS is taking hints from macOS, instead of the other way around.
iOS’s new dock, in particular, feels like it’s come straight from the Mac. It can now hold as many apps as you want, and those apps retain their previous windowing state when they’re opened up again — so something you had in split-screen  stay in split-screen when you resume use of it. It’s a little bit like the Mac’s Spaces features.
The dock hides much like it does for fullscreen Mac apps, too. But instead of moving your mouse cursor down, you just swipe up to reveal the dock again. Swiping to find the dock feels really natural, and, more importantly, it’s handy. I’ve never felt like I was able to quickly move around iOS, but it already feels like iOS 11  start to change that.
Part of that is because Apple has  brought something that resembles Mission Control to the iPad as well. If you swipe up on the dock (or do a single long swipe while the dock is hidden), all of your open apps, including ones you have in split-screen,  appear in a grid. It’s way more efficient than the existing task switcher, which required you to move through apps one at a time. (One other interesting note about all this swiping: it sure helps to obviate the need for a Home button!)
This all comes together to help make iOS feel like a big interconnected workspace, instead of a storage container for a bunch of disparate apps. Apple’s new drag-and-drop feature is another example of that. You no longer have to use the awful share sheet to move a single file around; you can just drag an object around the operating system until you find the app you want to put it in.
Selecting multiple objects for drag and drop is pretty easy: you press and hold on a single object, then tap any additional objects with another finger. It seems ideal for moving a few items at once, rather than the contents of an entire folder, but it’s still a huge improvement over the old way of moving things around, where every item felt locked into an app until it went through the magic “share sheet” and got spit out on the other side.
Apple’s new Files app ties into this, too, as a central hub for moving things around. The app is basically just Finder from the Mac, but it’s been upgraded in a really smart way: cloud services like Dropbox and Box are build right into the sidebar instead of with premade folders for photos and movies. Tags are there, too, and I expect to use them exactly as infrequently (never) as I do on the Mac. But hey, they’re pretty easy to apply thanks to the drag-and-drop feature.
On one hand, all of these changes complicate the iPad and could make the device harder for some people to use. The operating system no longer feels like it’s as “on rails” as it used to be. But in my quick use of iOS 11, the interactions all seemed to make sense, especially as someone coming from the Mac. That’s something I’ve been hoping Apple would do for a long time, and it’s shaping the iPad Pro into something much more similar to a traditional laptop.
Some other stray impressions:
Google today released its monthly security update for Pixel and Nexus devices. The security patch is rolling out over-the-air and can  be downloaded directly if you’re not one for waiting. In addition to bolstering the security of its devices, Android Police points out that Google included a pretty important Pixel software fix in this update: a nasty bug that has resulted in some Pixel smartphones randomly freezing has supposedly been fixed. Well, hopefully.
A post on Google’s product forums confirms that the fix “should address many of the freezing issues that have been reported.” Count me as one of the unlucky ones; my Pixel has been completely locking up at unpredictable times — at least once or twice a day — for months. And it rarely recovers or snaps out of it, so I usually have to hold down the power button for a hard reset whenever the freezes occur. (Yes, the Pixel’s camera is so good that it makes putting up with this stuff worth it.) Not all Pixel devices exhibit the issue. My colleague Vlad hasn’t encountered it at all, for example.
I’m installing the OTA right now, so I’m trying to be optimistic that the freezing  vanish for good. But the company warns that “freezing and general device performance issues can be caused my many different things” so Google is encouraging users to report back on whether it truly alleviates the problem.
Now if only Google could improve the Pixel’s Bluetooth performance...
If you’re looking for a wired keyboard from Apple, well you’re out of luck. The company introduced the Magic Keyboard with Numeric Keypad shortly after its WWDC keynote today, and quickly removed its wired keyboard with numeric keypad from its online store.
The move increases the price of the cheapest keyboard you can purchase from Apple from $49 to $79 for its standard Magic Keyboard, while the new magic keyboard with numeric keypad  come in at $129. A $50 premium for a few additional keys is definitely ridiculous, but plenty of people can’t work without the numeric keyboard, and the wireless capabilities have been a request for some time.
It just would’ve been nice if Apple kept around the wired keyboard for people who don’t want to drop $130 on the same keyboard, just without the wire. You can purchase the Magic Keyboard with Numeric Keypad from Apple’s online store today.
Earlier today, Apple announced a new version of the iPad Pro, a 10.5-inch model that is technically just a little bit larger than the earlier 9.7-inch tablet but, with 40 percent smaller bezels, it offers much more screen real estate. Like all of the high-end iPad Pros its an impressive piece of hardware, with a brighter display, a new 64-bit A10X Fusion chip, and something called Pro Motion that increases the refresh rate and, Apple claims, makes the accessory Pencil feel even more natural.
For most people, the first question to ask is probably: okay, well how big is it? We didn’t have a 9.7-inch model on hand to compare the two, but I can tell you that the 10.5-inch iPad felt like a “normal-sized” iPad and isn’t nearly as ginormous as the 12.9-inch iPad Pro.
What’s more interesting are the new iOS 11 multitasking features for the iPad that are borrowed from macOS. With these changes it feels as though Apple has stopped trying to convince its iPad users (or potential iPad customers) that they should just figure out how to be productive despite mobile limitations, and has acknowledged that some people might actually like to be able to manipulate apps and files on mobile. In some ways it’s even reminiscent of what Microsoft was trying to do with Windows 8 on the Surface tablet, as my colleague Tom Warren astutely pointed out.
The first thing you’ll notice about the new iOS 11 on the iPad is that there’s an app dock at the bottom of the display. It automatically appears on the home screen, but when you’re in an app, you can swipe up from the bottom of the screen to pull up the dock at any time. From there, you can drag and drop another app to the side of the screen to put it in multitasking mode. Some, like iMessage, even exist as floating sidebars now, rather than apps that snap on to the side of the screen.
After using the iPad Pro for just a few minutes, I’ve pretty much determined that a dock is one of the simplest and best things Apple could have done for the iPad, which I’ve had a hard time accepting as a true productivity device, but there’s more.
You can now switch between iPad apps by activating a Mission Control-like interface using a four-finger swipe. This casts apps into spaces and lets you look at all of the apps that are opened or running. The four-finger swipe felt a little awkward and not entirely responsive on the iPad I tried it on, but iOS 11 is still in beta for now.
Drag and drop is  worth mentioning. In iOS 11 you can open two apps side by side — let’s use Mail and Safari as an example — and drag and drop web content directly into an email draft. You can  drag and drop any app into the dock, or just move it around the home screen. (The little delete “x” won’t appear as you’re doing this.) Apps still fall into Apple’s predetermined arrangement of application icons, which means you can’t move apps anywhere; and you still can’t put files anywhere you want on the mobile home screen. But Apple thinks it has a solution for that, too.
Which is Files, the thing that was leaked just before WWDC kicked off today. I didn’t get the chance to play with this app much, and again, I was using it on a preregistered demo model. But one of the more interesting features of this is the ability to use multi-touch to grab a bunch of files from one folder and drag them into another. You’re supposed to press down on one file first, and then you can use your remaining free fingers to tap other file thumbnails, and they’re immediately added to your selection.
There are other new iPad Pro-specific features, too. The text you write with the accessory Pencil can be indexed in Spotlight search results. And, of course, there’s an Apple-made smart accessory keyboard for this particular size and model.
The 10.5-inch iPad Pro goes on sale today and ships next week; while iOS 11 ships to consumers in the fall. The iPad costs $648 for the 64-gigabyte base model and creeps up from there, which not surprisingly puts it firmly in the category of very high-end tablets, unlike the $329 model we reviewed a couple months ago.
Despite the fact that Apple’s iPad sales have been declining for the past several quarters, Apple seems determined to make iPad work as a serious computing device, not just a tablet people use to shop and browse and consume. This is clearly another step in that direction.

The go-to move with any major developer conference is to kick things off with a cheesy video of happy young people using your technology in sunny urbanscapes, and Apple has long been a pioneer of this genre. Today’s WWDC opener, however, was a little bit different, depicting a nightmare glitch scenario wherein all apps on all iPhones and iPads around the world just malfunction and cease to exist.
Cue a fast-moving whirlwind tour of a planet Earth tilted off its axis by hordes of disoriented, howling humans unable to distribute their selfies to a wide enough audience or communicate just how mad and impulsive they are to eat an entire pizza solo. It’s a strangely satisfying and endearing form of self-deprecation, and it culminates on the cheerful note — for all the developers attending Apple’s big annual dev conference — that the world is relying on the apps made for iOS devices, so we’d better keep making them. Or else, the fragile world order around us  collapse into total chaos and disorder.
Russian hacking groups played a larger role in the 2016 election than anyone realized, according to a top secret NSA report published today in The Intercept. That campaign includes targeting a supplier of US voting software, as well as sending spear-phishing emails to more than 100 local election officials just days before Election Day. The result is a troubling new turn in Russian hacking efforts, although there’s no indication the group had access to voting totals or election results.
The Intercept report comes after a string of hacks in the run-up to the 2016 Election, when hackers stole and published emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign. In January, the Director of National Intelligence attributed those leaks to a Russian influence campaign ordered directly by Russian president Vladimir Putin. Putin himself has denied directly ordering the campaign, saying instead that it may have been carried out by “patriots” sympathetic to Russian interests.
But while those hacks focused on influence operations, The Intercept report reveals a hacking group linked to Russia was  directly targeting US voting infrastructure. In one campaign, the group sent attempted phishing emails to seven different employees at an unnamed voting system company. Three of the emails went to non-existent email addresses, but at least one is believed to have successfully compromised its target. According to the NSA’s assessment, the group was “probably trying to obtain information associated with election-related hardware and software applications.”
In another case, the group sent test emails to two “absentee request” accounts for the election office for American Samoa. The emails bounced and did not contain any malicious links or attachments. As a result, analysts believed the emails were research for a separate absentee ballot spoof to be deployed at a later time.
Nothing in the report indicates the group had any direct access to vote totals or the ability to directly alter election results. Still, the report indicates the Russian government was working to compromise the organizations and individuals providing election equipment and maintaining voter rolls. That’s a significant step beyond simply influencing public opinion by publishing stolen information, which had been the focus of previously attributed attacks.
The report itself is still classified, and NSA may have already located the source of the leak. Shortly after the Intercept’s report was published, the Justice Department announced the prosecution of 25-year-old contractor Reality Leigh Winner, who is charged removed classified material from a secure facility and mailing it to an unnamed online news outlet. Winner was arrested at her home on Saturday, and appeared in federal court in Georgia this afternoon.
Update 5:52PM ET: Updated with information on the charges against Reality Leigh Winner.
Microsoft has filed a trademark for a mysterious S logo today. The logo, discovered by a NeoGAF user, is related to “Video game consoles for use with an external display screen or monitor; video game interactive remote control units” and “Computer game software for use with personal computers and video game consoles,” according to the trademark filing. It’s not clear whether the trademark is related to a new game for Microsoft’s Xbox One consoles, or even Project Scorpio itself.
The timing of the trademark filing is significant. Microsoft just teased its Project Scorpio dev kit, and the company is planning to unveil its Xbox Project Scorpio console on Sunday at E3. Microsoft is expected to reveal the final naming, price, and design of the new Xbox console at E3. Microsoft’s Surface Studio naming was revealed in a trademark filing ahead of the company’s PC hardware last fall, and it’s possible we might be witnessing the logo for the new Xbox here.
Whether Microsoft chooses just Xbox Scorpio, Xbox S, or another name entirely  all be revealed on Sunday at 2PM PT / 5PM ET.
District 9 director Neill Blomkamp is working on a new project under his latest undertaking, Oats Studios. The company’s YouTube channel released the official trailer for Volume 1, presumably the first entry in a bizarre and bloody series of experimental films. Or possibly it’s a collection of images from a handful of those short films, as in Oats’ first volume of short films.
The Volume 1 trailer features a nonsensical mash-up of blood-soaked bodies, sci-fi dystopias, and Sigourney Weaver. Truly, I have no idea what’s going on here. There’s levitation, a whip-toting lizard creature, and (best guess) the cooking show from hell. At the very least, it’s consistent with the teaser released last month, in which it would appear that the aforementioned lizard race has imprisoned the people of Earth.
Apple’s WWDC 2017 keynote just wrapped, where key executives Craig Federighi, Phil Schiller, and, of course, Tim Cook, took the stage to announce updates headed to iPhones, MacBooks, Apple TV, and more.
The rumors for this year’s WWDC came in the final hours leading up to the event, with hints of new hardware and, of course, software news for developers to help prep the release of consumer updates in the fall. We were  anticipating the company to finally take Siri up against the likes of Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant on the hardware and smart home front — and it looks like it arrived in the form of the Apple HomePod.
Here are the highlights from today’s keynote.
So let’s get the Siri speaker rumors out of the way: it turns out Apple wasn’t quite aiming its smart speaker to go against just Amazon Echo and Google Home, but  the Sonos home entertainment speakers. Called the HomePod, it uses spacial awareness to tune and better fill the room with sound based on the space it’s in. It  has a “Musicologist” feature that works with Apple Music to stream the music you ask the speaker’s built-in Siri to play. You can even ask more complex, music-related questions like “Who’s the drummer in this song?” or “What album came out on this day 20 years ago?”
The HomePod  be available in two colors — black or white — and  integrate Siri in an Amazon Echo / Google Home-like use case. You can ask it to control smart home devices and check the day’s weather and news briefings. Apple priced the HomePod at $349, with plans to ship it in December first to customers in the US, UK, and Australia. It  enter more international markets next year. Check out our hands-on with the HomePod for a first look.
Apple’s introducing updated iMac desktops with improved Retina displays, graphics boosts, Kaby Lake processors, and USB-C. They   support graphics for VR content creation. During the keynote, Apple demoed this by showing off a VR game featuring Darth Vader, a lightsaber, and TIE fighter.
There’s a new iMac Pro as well, with a 5K display with improved cooling capacity, and 8-core Xeon processor (upgradeable up to 18-core,) up to 4TB of SSD, up to 128GB of ECC memory, four Thunderbolt 3 ports, and built-in 10GB Ethernet.
The new iMac starts at $1,099 for the 21.5-inch model, and $1,299 for the 4K model. MacBooks  get upgraded, too; the MacBook Pro starting at $1,299, which includes the updated Kaby Lake processor. The iMac Pro starts at $4,999, and ships in December.
The new version of iOS software has some pretty social updates, such as an update to Siri that has improved speech, the ability to help translate sentences into different languages, and on-device learnings that suggest actions based on what you do on your iPhone or iPad. iMessages now live in the iCloud, with synchronized conversations that you can delete from any device you own that are under the same account. You can  pay and receive payments from contacts through iMessage — so no more Venmo or Square Cash if you don’t want to download extra apps.
Photo capture is  improved, with better low-light performance, and the ability to edit Live Photos so you can change the key still image or trim the video. There’s a new control center as well, which relies a lot on 3D Touch and condenses most controls on the lower half of the screen without looking cluttered.
There’s  a new safety feature that recognizes when a user is driving and automatically turns on Do Not Disturb to prevent distractions. When you’re available to be more social, you can now head to Apple Music to see what your friends are listening to and check out shared playlists.
Lastly, the App Store has been redesigned for better discovery and a How To section for tips on how to use various popular apps. Apple’s  bringing back the “App of the Day” section to promote users to open the App Store more frequently.
On the iPad, iOS 11 improves multitasking that lets users pull up an app from the dock and drag it onto the screen to split the screen. Similar to what you can do on a MacBook, you can use touch to hold and drag folders, files, or photos and drop them in a different app such as Mail or iMessage. Handwritten text from an Apple Pencil   be searchable from the Notes app. Apple claims it uses “deep learning” to recognize penmanship.
Apple  talked briefly about the Files app that leaked a few hours before the keynote kicked off, which is just a management system that you can use to sort files by size and date, similar to how you’d go through your files on a desktop or laptop.
Just as Lauren Goode predicted, Apple introduced a new ARKit to let developers build augmented reality apps for the iPhone. The kit can help find planes, track motion, and estimate scale and ambient lighting. Popular apps like Pokémon Go   use ARKit for improved real-time renders.
Rather than requiring external hardware like Microsoft’s HoloLens, Apple seems to be betting on ARKit to provide impressive quality imaging through a device most people already own. We’ll know more on how the quality actually compares when we get to try it out ourselves.
The iPad Pro  now be available in three different sizes, with a new 10.5-inch model introduced today. There’s a 12-megapixel camera, just like the iPhone 7, with a 7MP selfie cam. It supports USB 3.0 and has 10 hours of battery life.
There’s a new feature called ProMotion which reduces the Apple Pencil’s latency to 20 milliseconds. It can automatically adjust the refresh rate based on what you’re watching (fast-moving video versus still image). ProMotion  doubles the refresh rate to up to 120Hz.
The 10.5-inch iPad Pro  be available starting with a 64GB configuration at $649; it’s available to order now and shipping next week.
The upcoming version of macOS  be called High Sierra, and it comes with updates to Safari that help block site trackers and autoplaying videos. Apple’s  added new photo-editing tools like curves (helpful for those who don’t have Adobe Photoshop), and it has better filtering tools to sort images by keywords or faces.
An updated file management system  be a part of the update as well, which speeds up directory cloning with native encryption. On the graphics end, there’s a second version of Metal, support for VR, and a Metal 2 developer kit that you can order with an AMD GPU to tune apps for external graphics.
An update for the Apple Watch is coming which introduces new faces that display different types of informations, such as Siri reminders or more visual ones that feature Toy Story characters a la Mickey Mouse. There’s  a fitness-focused update, which includes monthly challenges to encourage the wearer to get more active and NFC-enabled data sharing where the user can tap their Apple Watch on gym equipment to pair the two, sharing the most accurate calorie burn and activity information.
There’s  a new Music app to make finding and playing music via the Apple Watch more visual — you can now use a new dock layout to scroll through recently opened apps.
Catch up on the latest news from WWDC 2017 right here.
Apple's biggest conference of the year kicked off with a lengthy keynote as usual, bringing us news about its take on the smart home speaker, updates to its MacBook and iMac lines, and a look at what's to come from iOS 11. Catch all the latest news right here as we go through the week at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, CA.
The keynote event of Apple’s Worldwide Developer’s Conference clocked in at more than two hours, and it was full of news about what Apple’s doing with macOS, its hardware, and especially iOS 11. But there’s only so much you can cram into two hours when you have to focus on big features like augmented reality or launching a smart speaker.
That’s why one of the best parts of the show is the moment when Apple just says “screw it” and dumps a few dozen new features into one slide. There isn’t a ton of detail beyond the screen that Apple SVP Craig Federighi flashed onstage, but it’s enough to give us an idea of what we’ll be looking forward to in iOS 11.
Digital assistants are just as frustrating as they are helpful, so making it easier to interact with them is always welcome. It looks like Apple is finally going to add one of the most requested features for any digital assistant — you’ll be able to type to Siri in iOS 11. Socially awkward tech nerds, rejoice!
QR codes aren’t nearly as big in America as they are in other parts of the world, and so Apple has been able to skate by without natively supporting QR codes for a while now. But it looks like the company’s finally changing that by adding QR code support to, likely, the native camera app in iOS 11. Finally — no more bothering with third-party apps once a year when you need to scan a QR code.
Apple started allowing developers to offer third-party keyboards with iOS 8. Since then, it’s been picking some of the most-loved features available in that marketplace (like stickers and apps) and slowly adding them to iMessage. The newest one coming to iOS 11 is one-handed mode. We obviously haven’t seen exactly how it  work, but expect the feature to squish the keyboard layout to your preferred side, maybe even in an arc.
There’s  a mention of “one-handed zoom in Maps,” which  hopefully make Apple’s mapping app a bit easier to use.
Following in the footsteps of competitors like Samsung, which started allowing screen recording (and GIF creation) on its last few Galaxy phones, Apple appears ready to add that functionality in iOS 11. Here’s hoping Apple  let you capture and create GIFs, too.
This feature got a bit more of a tease during the iPad Pro demo, but it looks like Apple is making it much easier to mark up the things you screenshot on your iOS 11 devices. Instead of dipping back into the camera roll after you take a screenshot, you’ll be able to quickly re-crop and markup the image right away.
Apple is redesigning its entire App Store in iOS 11, so it’s not surprising that it’s going to overhaul the Podcasts app, which is a whole marketplace of its own. Discovery has always been tough on Apple’s own podcast listening app, so this is the company’s chance to get it right.
I don’t know about you, but every (rare) time I use Safari on my iPhone I always forget how to access tab switching. Then, after I find it, I wind up stumbling around the interface, trying apply Chrome’s tab behaviors to a different browser. Is iOS 11 going to fix that? Hard to say. But making it easier to swap between tabs — and giving 3D Touch some purpose — is a welcome change.
Speaking of 3D Touch, it appears that Apple is expanding its usage in iOS 11 in other ways, too. It  apparently serve as a shortcut to the “look up” feature, which lets users get a quick set of definitions or related web search results for a highlighted word or phrase. 3D Touch is  getting more integration in iMessage, with apple adding an ability to share URLs with the feature.
Something Siri’s been behind on when compared to Google’s Assistant is knowing when and where you’re going. That  change with iOS 11, which  now grab your flight information and keep it visible (and make it searchable) in a Spotlight widget.
There’s a lot more listed — better non-English language support, improved password management, FaceTime Live Photos — and we’re sure to learn more about iOS 11 in the week ahead. Let us know what you’re looking forward to most in the comments below.
Apple has officially announced the HomePod speaker today, which the company claims  reinvent music in homes like the iPod did for music on the go.
The new smart speaker features a seven-speaker array of tweeters. Additionally, there’s a four-inch upward-facing subwoofer and an Apple A8 chip. The speaker features “spatial awareness,” which allows it to automatically tune the sound to the space that the speaker is in. Setup is simple — simply hold an iPhone next to the HomePod, similar to setting up a pair of AirPods. (HomePod is compatible with the iPhone 5S and up.) You’ll  be able to use a pair of HomePods together in a single room for improved sound. HomePod is  compatible with Apple’s newly announced AirPlay 2 multi-room audio solution, so you’ll be able to use the speakers together with other HomePods or other AirPlay 2-compatible speakers around your house.
HomePod is obviously compatible with Apple Music, and can wirelessly access the full library of songs from Apple Music. There’s a six-microphone array, used to access Siri, which has been upgraded with even more capacity when it comes to specific music requests, like “Who’s playing drums on this track?” or “What was the top song on May 5th, 2016?” Apple says that the microphones are good enough to hear commands from far away, even with the music at full volume. The Siri waveform appears on top of the device when the assistant is activated, similar to the LED lights on an Amazon Echo, although the HomePod  features integrated touch controls as well.
Along with the music support, HomePod is designed to work as a home assistant, so you can use Siri for things like unit conversion, news, weather, traffic, sports, reminders, timers, and more. Apple’s own services tie in, too: you can send iMessages through HomePod, or control HomeKit devices. HomePod   serve as a HomeKit hub to allow you to control smart home products away from your home, too.
Apple  highlighted the security of HomePod. While the device  always listen for a “Hey, Siri” prompt to activate, information won’t be sent to Apple’s servers until after that command is heard. And what information is sent is “encrypted and sent using an anonymous Siri identifier.”
The speaker hardware itself is a small cylinder covered in mesh that brings to mind a wider, squatter Logitech UE Boom, and  be available in both white and space gray. HomePod  cost $349 when it ships in December in the US, UK, and Australia.

Apple announced some new updates for the iPad Pro at WWDC as part of the upcoming iOS 11 update that finally builds out the tablet’s potential as a professional device, with what Apple calls “the largest iOS release for iPad ever.”
The Dock is getting overhauled, and now resembles the dock on a Mac. Users can stick as many apps as they want into the dock, and access it from anywhere in an application to easily switch between apps or simply drag out a second application in split-screen.
Additionally, Apple is  upgrading multitasking on the iPad, adding a new app switcher to show multiple apps at the same time, similar to Spaces on the Mac. iOS 11   allow users to drag and drop text, images, and other snippets between applications, similar to the third-party implementation developed by Readdle earlier this year.
There’s a new Files application that leaked out earlier, which makes managing files easier. It can tie into cloud services like Dropbox, Box, or Google Drive as well. Files works with the new drag-and-drop support, too, making it simple to access documents in other apps, too.
Additionally, the Apple Pencil is more deeply integrated into iOS 11. Simply tapping on the lock screen opens up the iPad to the Notes app in iOS 11, and anything you handwrite in Notes is searchable through machine learning that analyzes your written text. Anything that you can screenshot can be automatically marked up with Pencil. There’s a new document scanner in the Notes application, which allows documents to be easily digitized and written on all in one place.
As Apple continues to face pressure from devices like Microsoft’s Surface Laptop and Google’s Chromebook in fighting for the attention of students and workers looking for simple productivity devices, these updates could go a long way toward furthering the professional applications of Apple’s tablet hardware.
iOS 11 is expected to release sometime this fall.

Today, President Donald Trump endorsed a plan to hand over oversight of the nation’s airspace to a nonprofit corporation that  likely be largely controlled by the major airlines. Republicans argue that privatizing air traffic control  help save money and fast-track important technological upgrades. But Democrats and consumer groups criticize that plan as a corporate giveaway that  inevitably harm passengers.
Trump announced his support for the proposal as part of his administration’s kick-off of “infrastructure week,” in which the president hopes to reclaim multiple weeks of bad headlines by highlighting his campaign promise to rebuild the nation’s crumbling roads and bridges. Trump is expected to travel to Ohio later this week to galvanize support for his still amorphous plan.
The air traffic reform proposal, which fell short in Congress last year, would transfer oversight from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to a government-sanctioned, independent entity that would be made up of appointees from industry stakeholders. The effort picked up steam when the union representing air traffic controllers endorsed the plan, citing years of understaffing by the FAA.
Some passengers may balk at the idea of handing over day-to-day management of the nation’s highly complex air traffic control system to the same companies that rack up tens of thousands of customer complaints a year, and occasionally physically assault or drag passengers off their planes. But the Trump administration argues this is the only way to modernize a system that still runs on technology that’s been around since World War II.
Many supporters, though, conflate the bill to privatize air traffic control with an ongoing effort to modernize the technology that powers air traffic control. The FAA is already years into a technology upgrade known as NextGen, which involves moving from the current system based on radar and voice communications to one based on satellite navigation and digital communications. The FAA wants to use GPS technology to shorten routes, save time and fuel, and reduce traffic delays by increasing capacity.
Supporters of the White House’s plan say a new, corporate-run agency would be able to complete the shift to NextGen on a much faster timeline. They argue that congressional squabbling, including the occasional government shutdown and controller furloughs, has made for inconsistent funding for the FAA. “If we want to continue to have the safest air traffic control system in the world, we need to modernize technology and ensure that the system cannot continue to be interrupted by Congressional budget impasses,” writes Chris Ward, former head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which oversees the busiest airports in the nation. “This approach keeps costs down, reduces delays and enhances safety.”
Trump has adopted the belief that privatization equals better technology. “Today we’re proposing to American air travel into the future — finally,” Trump said during today’s announcement at the White House. He later sat at a desk and signed a list of “principles” on air traffic control — basically his support for the proposal in written form — in a bit of stagecraft designed to look like a bill-signing.
But privatization won’t directly affect the rollout of NextGen technology, and critics argue that conflating the two amount to nothing other than a vague promise to speed up the timeline of the rollout by eliminating bureaucratic hurdles.
Trump seems to have awkwardly confused ATC privatization with NextGen.
Critics  point out that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said that the privatization effort would increase the deficit by $20 billion over 10 years, which could undermine the implementation of NextGen technology.
Trump’s plan is seen as identical to a bill proposed by Pennsylvania Congressman Bill Shuster, who chairs the House’s Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. (In 2015, Politico reported that Shuster was dating a top lobbyist for Airlines for America, an industry group that supports the privatization effort. Shuster has said the relationship doesn’t effect his policymaking decisions.)
Unsurprisingly, many of the big airlines support the privatization plan. They’ve been lobbying Congress for almost two decades to support separating air traffic control from the FAA, noting that nations like Canada, Germany, France, Australia, New Zealand, and the UK have all shifted control of their airspace to semi-private entities.
But not all of the major carriers are on board. Last year, Delta Air Lines left a major industry group in protest to the privatization effort, citing a study it says predicts that traveler fees could skyrocket 30 percent under a private system. Other critics note that semi-private air traffic groups in countries like Canada and the UK have needed taxpayer-funded bailouts to make up for budget shortfalls.
“Privatization supporters say that shifting the funding for air traffic operations to a private group  lessen the burden on taxpayers,” Steve Dickson, senior VP of flight operations for Delta, wrote in an op-ed last year. “But in practice, it has never worked that way.”
But the bill’s future already seems bleak. Key Republicans say the bill won’t go anywhere without Democratic support in the Senate. And after an extremely rocky start to his presidency, it seems unlikely that Trump can say or do anything to garner votes from across the aisle.
Here's Senate Commerce chair @SenJohnThune saying very politely that FAA privatization is going nowhere. pic.twitter.com/DWgW6NWP4e

One of Microsoft's big claims with its new Surface Pen was that it's the fastest digital pen in the world, making it "twice as responsive as the Apple Pencil.” Today at Apple's WWDC keynote, the iPad maker has fired back with a faster Apple Pencil. Microsoft's Surface Pen has 21ms of latency, and Apple's Pencil now has 20ms with the new iPad Pro, making Apple's the fastest digital pen in the world.
Just like Microsoft, it seems Apple is enabling this faster Apple Pencil thanks to its display technology. The new iPad Pro includes a new display with a 120Hz refresh rate that improves the speed of the Apple Pencil. Either way, it's unlikely anyone is going to notice a 1ms difference between the Surface Pen and Apple Pencil.
While Apple has improved the speed of the Apple Pencil, it's not immediately clear whether the pressure-sensitivity levels have improved. Microsoft has increased the pressure-sensitivity levels on the new Surface Pen to 4096, alongside a 12-gram activation force.
Apple is  improving iOS 11 for Pencil support. Notes hand-written text is now searchable, alongside inline drawings within typed notes. You can even tap on the lock screen with the Pencil to jump straight into the Notes app. iOS 11  be available later this fall as a free upgrade for existing devices.

Apple announced a new 10.5-inch iPad Pro and a refreshed 12.9-inch model today at its Worldwide Developers Conference. They ship next week; the 10.5-inch model starts at $649 with 64GB of memory, or $779 for a 64GB cellular version. The 12.9-inch version starts at $799 for 64GB of storage and Wi-Fi, or $929 for 64GB of storage with cellular connectivity. They come with up to 512GB of storage. Both iPads are powered by the new A10X six-core CPU and include a 12-core GPU. They support HDR video with a 120Hz refresh rate. Apple says this is ideal for the Apple Pencil because it’s more responsive and drops the latency rate to 20 milliseconds. That refresh rate dynamically adjusts depending on what you’re viewing for smarter power conservation. The True Tone display is  50 percent brighter than earlier models.
The new iPad Pros  feature a a 12-megapixel rear-facing camera along with a 7-megapixel front-facing camera. Both should last for 10 hours on a single charge. In addition to the iPad, Apple is launching new sleeves and accessories, like a leather sleeve for both that start at $129.
The news follows Apple’s release of another new iPad earlier this year, that it simply calls iPad. That device is 9.7-inches and replaced the iPad Air 2. The price of the iPad has  dropped, too: the 32GB Wi-Fi model starts at $329, and 32GB Wi-Fi and Cellular model is going for $459.



Apple today announced a huge design overhaul of the App Store on iOS, unveiling a all-new interface at its WWDC keynote with a new focus on discovery and how-tos. The main feature is a landing page that highlights just one new app every day, which opens the possibility for new and upcoming developers to get huge boosts from Apple itself when and if they’re able to get the featured spotlight.
In terms of visual language, the new App Store looks very much like Apple Music and Apple News, bringing a cleaner and more consistent and colorful look to its suite of stock service software. Apple is  putting a bigger emphasis on games, breaking out the category as its own tab in the App Store separate from the general purpose “apps” tab. The company is  breaking out in-app purchases on the description page, so they can be purchased right from the App Store and not by only opening and digging through the software itself.
One last big change Apple highlighted onstage today is a new editorially curated focus to the revamped App Store that features a “top story” of the day, how-to guides on using powerful apps like photo editor VSCO, and new article-like description pages for apps that resemble uncluttered blog posts, like something you might read on Medium.

Like the rest of the tech world, Apple wants to make AI on your mobile device as fast and powerful as possible. That’s why the company unveiled a new machine learning framework API for developers today named Core ML.
The key benefit of Core ML  be speeding up how quickly AI tasks execute on the iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch. This could cover everything from text analysis to face recognition, and should have an effect on a broad category of apps. It means, says Apple, that image recognition on the iPhone  be six times faster than on Google’s Pixel.
Core ML  support a number of essential machine learning tools, including all sorts of neural networks (deep, recurrent, and convolutional), as well as linear models and tree ensembles. And because this is Apple, there’s  a privacy focus, too — Core ML is for on-device processing, meaning the data that developers use to improve user experience won’t leave customers’ phones and tablets.
Apple isn’t the only tech company looking to make AI work better on mobile, though, and this announcement fits an industry-wide trend. Both Google and Facebook have previously announced versions of their machine learning frameworks optimized for mobile devices, and chip-maker Qualcomm has created its own software (named the Neural Processing Engine) to smooth the mobile AI experience. Machine learning: it’s not just happening in the cloud anymore.

Apple has announced a tool it calls ARKit, which  provide advanced augmented reality capabilities on iOS. It’s supposed to allow for “fast and stable motion tracking” that makes objects look like they’re actually being placed in real space, instead of simply hovering over it. And yes, this  make Pokémon Go look better.
On stage, Apple showed off a very basic implementation of ARKit: you can map the flat surface of a table and place a teacup on it with realistic perspective, drawing information from an iPhone or iPad’s sensors and cameras. But you can theoretically make much more complex experiences. Sir Peter Jackson’s studio Wingnut AR appeared with a complex augmented reality landscape made in Unreal Engine, which ARKit supports alongside Unity and SceneKit. The demo is supposed to be released as a game “later this year.”
Apple has so far kept a low profile in the augmented reality space, although CEO Tim Cook said last year that the company was investing in it, and that it could be “huge.” Popular third-party iOS apps (like Pokémon Go and Snapchat) incorporated AR capabilities, but Apple’s hardware and software hasn’t been specifically built to enable it, until now.
To some extent, Apple is playing catchup with competitor Google, which already has its Tango augmented reality platform. But Tango is only available on a few Android devices, while Apple’s Craig Federighi boasts that because ARKit  be available across the iOS ecosystem, it’s “the largest AR platform in the world.”
Three years after its debut, Monument Valley is getting a sequel — and it’s launching today on iPhone and iPad. (An Android version is coming “soon.”) The mobile puzzle game burst onto the scene in 2014, and its clever, approachable gameplay coupled with breathtaking, MC Escher-inspired visuals turned it into a runaway success. It's been downloaded more than 30 million times, was featured in an episode of House of Cards, and was named Apple’s iPad game of the year in 2014.
That’s a tough act to follow, and, initially, developer Ustwo Games appeared publicly against the idea of a sequel. After the launch of Monument Valley’s only major expansion, “Forgotten Shores,” the studio switched gears to virtual reality, releasing the mysterious adventure title Land’s End on Gear VR. “We were creatively exhausted as a small team,” says studio head Dan Gray. “We really needed to work on something new.”
But during that time the studio started to change. Last year Ken Wong, lead designer on the original Monument Valley, left to form his own studio Mountains. Meanwhile, Ustwo Games over doubled in size, going from a tiny team of eight to around 20 people. The injection of new blood had a profound impact. “These were all people who joined the team because they loved Monument Valley,” says Gray. “So what we found was, they brought a whole bunch of new ideas that we had never even thought of.”
In its earliest chapters, Monument Valley 2 sticks very closely to the formula laid down by the original. The sequel stars new characters, a mother named Ro and her daughter, but it still features a series of beautiful, colorful buildings that are architecturally impossible. Getting to the end of each stage involves manipulating the landscape to make platforms and bridges connect in ways that wouldn’t make sense in the real world. There’s an incredibly satisfying “ah ha!” moment when you figure out how things click together.
But a few chapters in, Monument Valley starts to expand in new and interesting ways. You’ll encounter portals that shift you from one area of a stage to another, and trees that  only grow when subjected to sunlight. Toward the end you’ll control both characters, which gives a completely different feel to the puzzles.
Perhaps the biggest change in Monument Valley 2, though, is its much larger focus on storytelling. Like the original, the sequel isn’t a game with much in the way of an explicit narrative; there’s little text and no lengthy cutscenes. Instead, it tells its story through a combination of character animations and the environment; you infer what’s going on by watching the mother and daughter and how they interact with the world around them. Over the course of Monument Valley 2’s 14 chapters, you’ll see the pair’s relationship grow, an arc that begins with a young and helpless child who is utterly dependent on her mother, and concludes with her clearly much stronger and more self-sufficient.
According to Gray, the decision to focus on story was inspired in part by the response to the first game. “What surprised us a lot was how much affinity people had for the relationship between Ida and the totem,” he says. “We almost Trojan horsed a story into an experience where people weren’t expecting to feel anything.”
The parental narrative  came about in part because several members of the development team became parents themselves during the gap between the two games. David Fernández Huerta, Monument Valley 2’s art director, had his first child in that time, and he parlayed that personal experience into the game. He says he designed around 100 potential characters for the game, but found that the mother and daughter pair were the most resonant. Meanwhile, certain chapters were inspired largely by his real life. One stage, in which the protagonists separate, takes place in a grey and gloomy brutalist structure, and is based on Huerta’s struggle with coming back to work after paternity leave. “I really wanted that level to feel like how I felt,” he says.
That stage is  one of several that diverts from the original when it comes to visuals. While most stages in the first Monument Valley featured a similar art style — a sort of candy-coated take on MC Escher — the sequel pulls from a more diverse range of inspirations. Some stages look like oppressive buildings in the mold of Boston’s City Hall, while others have more in common with graphic design, like a minimalist Penguin book cover. In large part, the variety of visual styles is meant to reflect the range of emotions in the story. “If we have a broader set of emotions that we’re trying to convey,” says Gray, “that’s obviously going to result in a slightly broader array of visual styles.”
Ro and her child were  chosen as the game’s leads because the team at Ustwo wanted to do its part to help broaden the types of stories told in games. For all the strides the medium has made over the years, games still typically tell a fairly narrow set of stories, helmed by an even more narrow subset of character archetypes.
“Mothers are hardly ever present in video games, and when they are they’re usually something that’s vulnerable that you need to protect,” says Gray. “Usually their entire character is summarized by the fact that they have a child and not much else. With Monument Valley 2, she’s not only there to protect and bestow knowledge on her child, she’s  very influential and powerful within the world of Monument Valley.” Huerta adds, “If you can make a game where the characters have no faces, and tell the evolving relationship of a mother and child over the years, then there’s no excuse. You can tell any story [in a game].”
The sequel is  slightly larger than the original Monument Valley — a relatively short length was one of the few common complaints with the first game — and it sounds like the team has plenty of ideas for ways to potentially expand the experience even more. Of course, whether those ideas  ever be something you can play, either in the form of a sequel or an expansion, isn’t something the team is ready to divulge just yet.
“I’ve always been against working on sequels,” says Huerta. “But there’s something about Monument Valley that is fertile ground — you can do anything with it.”
Apple Music is getting a bit more social, the company announced at WWDC today. Apple showed off new social features that  arrive in iOS 11. The update  allow users to create profiles and share music with their friends.
There   be a “friends are listening to” section, which  show you what the people you follow have been listening to and liking. (For users who are less social, you can make your profile private and hide your Nickelback love from your friends.)
Apple   introduce a new shared “up next” list in Apple Music, that  allow users to let friends choose what songs  come up next in a playlist. This  come in handy if you’re using the new HomeKit 2, which allows for control over your speakers and multi-room audio.
Apple  announced MusicKit for developers, which  allow developers to easily integrate Apple Music with their apps. Nike, Anchor, and Shazam are three of the major developers using MusicKit already.
Apple  updated the music app on the Apple Watch as well, with bigger album art, support for multiple playlists, and automatically updated sections like new music based on what you listen to.
After a tumultuous launch in 2015, Apple found its balance with Apple Music after a refresh last year, and this time it seems the company is largely just cleaning up and refocusing certain areas of the app.

Apple’s HomeKit is about to get a much needed major upgrade, thanks to the addition of speakers, the company announced during its WWDC keynote today. The announcement came in the form of a new version of AirPlay, called AirPlay 2, which  allow HomeKit to communicate to speakers. If you happen to own an Apple TV connected to a speaker setup, it can  act as the central hub for you to stream music.
This opens the door for multi-room audio controls from a single device. Apple says it’s signed on a number of manufacturers, including (of course) Apple-owned Beats, but  Bose, Bang & Olufsen, and a number of other speaker makers. It’s unclear if only Apple software  be able to link with HomeKit via AirPlay 2. Yet Apple exec Craig Federighi said onstage that "third-party audio apps  be able to get in on the multi-room audio fun,” opening up the possibility that you’ll be control song streaming via Spotify or Google Play Music as well.
Here’s an partial hardware partner list, as shared by Apple onstage:

Apple is trying to stop distracted driving. The company announced today at its Worldwide Developers Conference that it’s launching “Do Not Disturb While Driving” as part of iOS 11. It’ll block notifications from showing up when Apple determines you’re driving, either through a Bluetooth connection or Wi-Fi doppler. Your iPhone screen  be blacked out until you stop driving.
iMessage  automatically respond to anyone who texts to say that you’re driving. Not every message has to be blocked, though. You can set certain people as important, and anything they send  show up on your phone. If you aren’t actually driving, you can exit this mode, too.
Apple  introduced indoor mapping to Apple Maps today. This functionality is initially coming to malls and airports around the world. Around eight cities  be included at launch. These include Chicago, Hong Kong, New York, and Tokyo. For malls, you’ll be available to view a directory and where stores are in relation to each other. Airports  be similar. There  be around 30 airports at launch, including JFK and La Guardia in New York and London Heathrow Airport.

Apple announced that major changes are coming to Siri across the various hardware platforms that support the digital assistant in iOS 11. There’s a new voice for the digital assistant that’s meant to sound more natural, along with a more visual interface that shows suggestions and follow-ups to your original query.
Siri is  getting a new Translation feature in beta, for translating from English to Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish, with more language combinations coming soon. Siri   use "on-device learning" to be more predicative about what you want next, based on your existing use of the digital assistant. That learning gets synced across all your devices, but remains private to you, according to Apple.
Additionally, more open third-party support that  allow developers freedom to integrate their apps with the voice-controlled assistant. Developers  be able to do more things, including task management and more.
The updated version of Siri  roll out later this year in iOS 11.

Apple is bringing iMessage to its iCloud platform. The company announced during WWDC that in iOS 11, users  be able to sign in on any device and have all of their messages, thanks to iCloud integration.
iMessage in the Cloud  means if you delete a message on your iPhone, the deletion  be reflected on your Mac, a major update to a major annoyance noticed by anyone who’s ever used the Messages app on an Apple desktop or laptop. The company has  redesigned the app drawer in iMessage, and the cloud integration  allow for smaller backups, as nearly all of your messages except for your most recent ones are stored in the cloud and not on your device.
Apple understands that iMessage is one of the core anchors of iOS as an operating system, keeping people locked into its closed ecosystem by way of blue-bubbled group texts with friends and family. Last year Apple revamped iMessage by adding third-party app extensions, stickers, emoji animations, and a number of other well-known chat app features to make it more competitive against Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, and Snapchat.
The company borrowed a handful of the best messaging features across the entire chat app marketplace to make iMessage more hip, fun, and versatile, and this year, it’s bringing the chat service to the cloud.  announced today as part of its WWDC keynote is an iMessage and Apple Pay integration, to let you perform peer-to-peer payments, like with Venmo or Square Cash, right from the chat app.

Apple just announced onstage at its Worldwide Developer’s Conference that Apple Pay is getting person-to-person payments. The feature  come in iOS 11, which was announced onstage, and  be available later this year.
It’s an obvious swipe at the part of the payments market that apps like Venmo, PayPal, and Square Cash have cornered. But there’s a catch — P2P payments with Apple Pay  live inside iMessage, and it’s unclear if Apple  let users perform them outside of its messaging app. , the money  be transferred to something called an “Apple Pay Cash Card,” which can then be sent to your bank account. That means Apple is not only coming for the Venmos of the world, but maybe the banks themselves.


Apple CEO Tim Cook just officially announced iOS 11 onstage at WWDC 2017. The next major update to the operating system running on millions of iPhones and iPads  improve on the “core technologies” that power the OS and  introduce numerous new user-facing features. Chief among them are new, improved productivity solutions for iPad, but other enhancements are coming to Messages, Apple Pay, and other apps. iOS 11  be released this fall — presumably alongside new iPhone 8 and iPhone 7S smartphones. A public beta  be available later in June.
The first new iOS 11 feature demonstrated by Craig Federighi was a super convenient one: synchronized conversations across iCloud, iOS, and macOS. Messages is moving to iCloud, essentially. If you erase a message on your iPhone or iPad, that  now be reflected on your Mac as well. Previously, you’d often have to deal with notifications twice or delete old conversations again. Your conversations  be stored on iCloud, which  make them easier to retrieve on your future Apple devices but might  open potential privacy and government snooping concerns.
Apple Pay is  expanding to include person-to-person payments, positioning Apple to take on Venmo and Square Cash. iOS 11  introduce a Apple Pay Cash Card, where users  store their received funds from peer-to-peer transactions. This money can be transferred to your personal bank account.
Apple has made improvements to Siri that make the assistant’s voice sound more natural when responding to users. Additionally, Siri  now be able to perform translations from English to Chinese, French, German, Italian, or Spanish.
Siri is  getting smarter about suggestions. It accomplishes this through what Federighi described as “on-device learning.” On-device learning is synced across your other Apple devices but "kept completely private, readable only by you and your devices." Apple says on-device learning lets Siri give suggestions “based on personal usage of Safari, News, Mail, Messages and more. For example, as Siri learns topics or places a user is interested in while browsing Safari, they  be suggested when typing in Mail, Messages and other apps.”
iOS 11 lets users take Portrait Mode images with optical image stabilization, with a flash, or in HDR. New Loop and Bounce effects can be applied to Live Photos, and Apple is using a High Efficiency Image File Format (HEIF) to shrink the amount of storage that photos take up on your iPhone.
In iOS 11, Apple has completely redesigned Control Center, which is the panel that users can swipe up to access frequent and important settings or change songs when listening to music.
The iPad is getting some special attention with iOS 11. Apple is making the iPad’s dock similar to the Mac’s by letting users add many more apps to it.
A new drag-and-drop feature lets you quickly move info or media from one split-screen app into the one beside it. Yes, that’s pretty basic stuff — but it shows exactly why Apple needed to make these iPad improvements in the first place. They were overdue. Drag and drop can  be used with apps on your home screen or dock.
, iOS 11 can now preserve app pairings for iPad when you’re switching between apps. It’s basically the equivalent of the Mac’s Spaces feature — but now on iPad. This means you can keep two apps you commonly use together when switching to another app, and easily return to them without having to set up the split-screen view again.
Apple  bring traditional file management — or at least something resembling it — to the iPad with iOS 11. A new Files app, leaked earlier on Monday morning,  give users a simple view of files on their device and  those stored with cloud services including iCloud, Dropbox, OneDrive, and more.
Apple Maps is introducing indoor maps for airports and shopping centers in select cities.
Mall layouts  be available for the following cities:  Boston, Chicago, Hong Kong, London, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Jose, Tokyo, and Washington, DC.
Apple has indoor maps for well over 20 major airports as well, including both US and international locations.
iOS 11  adds new improvements to Maps when you’re behind the wheel of a car. Lane guidance and speed limits should help you navigate unfamiliar highways.
More important is a new safety measure: Do Not Disturb While Driving  get rid of potential distractions when your eyes should be focused on the road. Text messages won’t be shown by default, though senders have the option of replying with “urgent” in cases when you really need to see something.
Sonos has some huge competition on the way. Apple’s Craig Federighi said on stage that iOS 11  introduce support for multi-room audio between iPhones, iPads, and a slew of third-party speakers.
Plus, Apple Music is adding a much needed social element, which  show you what friends are currently listening to on the service. Like Spotify, you’ve got the option of listening privately if you don’t want to let others in on your guilty pleasures.
The App Store is getting its biggest makeover ever in iOS 11. There’s a new “Today” tab that  surface notable releases, and Apple is finally giving the games section its own dedicated tab. There’s a much bigger editorial aspect to the store now, too, as users  find how-tos, “making of” stories, and other content that pertains to select apps. Other refinements include the ability for developers to directly list in-app purchases in the App Store — rather than making users hunt for them in the app.
Apple is building augmented reality directly into the core of iOS, giving developers the tools they need to convincingly blend digital entertainment with the real world.
Craig Federighi demonstrates ARKit on stage at #WWDC2017 https://t.co/FdzYreKeEM pic.twitter.com/USK5AHUkVI
Here’s the fun slide of other features coming to iOS 11 that didn’t get stage time. Standouts include screen recording, a one-handed keyboard, FaceTime Live Photos, password autofill in apps, and more.
iOS 10, unveiled at last year’s WWDC, focused on a major update to the Messages app, and  included redesigned Maps, Photos, Apple Music, and News apps. A new Home app for controlling HomeKit-compatible smart home gadgets was introduced, and Apple began its work to open Siri to software developers as part of iOS 10, as well.
According to Apple, iOS 11  be available for iPhone 5s and later, all iPad Air and iPad Pro models, iPad fifth generation, iPad mini 2 and later, and iPod touch sixth generation. Some features — like person-to-person Apple Pay — require newer hardware.

Today, Apple announced a brand-new tier of its all-in-one desktop called the iMac Pro. The new product, unveiled onstage at the company’s Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, California, is supposed to be a “the most powerful Mac ever,” according to the company. In other words, this computer is going to replace the painfully outdated and woefully mismanaged Mac Pro line, at least for the foreseeable future. The iMac Pro  start shipping this December starting at $4,999, Apple confirmed.
Apple says the computer  ship with an 8-core Xeon processor, with configurations that scale up to an 18-core Xeon processor, 5K display, and an all-new AMD Radeon Vega GPU. You’ll  be able to shell out for up to 16GB of VRAM, up to 128GB of data corruption-protecting ECC RAM, and up to 4TB for SSD storage. There’s a whole bunch of other upgrades in there. Check out the full list Apple shared in its presentation below:
Everything else in the iMac Pro pic.twitter.com/wg5R3gURoP
Apple imagines this desktop being used for everything from high-end editing and graphics work to gaming and VR, with specs that could even support artificial intelligence research.

Apple has announced updates to its entire MacBook line at WWDC, giving its laptops more powerful specifications in the form of the latest Intel chips.
As had been previously rumored, last year’s MacBook Pros are getting Intel’s Kaby Lake processors, as is Apple’s 12-inch MacBook, which is  getting faster SSDs. Additionally, there’s a new configuration of the 13-inch MacBook Pro without a Touch Bar that starts at a cheaper $1,299, while the 15-inch model now has discrete graphics included standard. Otherwise, the MacBook remains unchanged, with the same screen, design, and ports.
Diving into the hardware specs, the MacBook now maxes out at up to a 1.3GHz Core i7 processor, the 13-inch MacBook Pro has up to a 3.5GHz Core i7, and the 15-inch MacBook Pro goes up to a 3.1GHz Core i7 processor.
Finally, the long-languishing MacBook Air is getting an update, albeit a minor one — Apple is giving the Air a desperately needed speed boost, now offering a faster 1.8GHz Intel processor — the company has yet to offer more details, aside from the speed boost — but that’s about it. The screen is still the same 1440 x 900 panel, the design remains unchanged, and there are no USB-C ports. It seems that the Air is sticking around as an entry-level budget model, even as Apple looks to push users to the MacBook and MacBook Pro.
Overall, the updates across the MacBook line show that Apple is committed to staying competitive in the laptop space, even if the spec boost fails to address larger problems with the products like Apple’s unwavering commitment to USB-C or the gimmicky Touch Bar. Still, given the huge amount of time that has historically gone between even spec boosts for some Apple products, like the iMac or Mac Pro, it’s nice to see that the company seems to be trying harder to keep things updated going forward.
The newly updated MacBook laptops  be available today.

Apple has announced updates to its iMac line at WWDC, giving its all-in-one desktop more powerful specifications and the latest Intel chips.
Apple is bringing Intel’s seventh-generation Kaby Lake processors to the new iMac, along with what Apple calls “the best Mac display ever,” offering 500 nits of brightness, or 43 percent brighter than the previous generation. The 21.5-inch model now can be configured up to 32GB of RAM, while the 27-inch goes up to 64GB, twice what had previously been offered. The new iMacs  are getting two Thunderbolt 3 USB-C ports, making it Apple’s first desktop computer to embrace the port standard.
Graphics cards are getting a spec boost in the updated iMacs, too. The entry-level 21.5-inch model  have an Intel Iris Plus 640 GPU, while the 4K 21.5-inch models  get Radeon Pro 555 and 560 graphics cards. Meanwhile, the 27-inch 5K model  have a choice of Radeon Pro 570, 575, and 580 graphics cards, topping out at 8GB of VRAM. (The top model Radeon Pro 580 is roughly equivalent to an Nvidia 1060.) Those new GPUs, along with updates in macOS High Sierra,  means that the new iMacs  support VR.
While the design of the iMac is mostly unchanged from the outside, it’s still a significant update, given that it’s been almost almost two years since Apple last updated the desktop line in October 2015. And it’s especially important, given that these new iMacs are pulling double duty as Apple’s primary desktop computer until it sorts out the situation with the Mac Pro sometime next year, although the newly announced iMac Pro slated for later this year should help with that.
The 21.5-inch iMac  start at $1,099 and the 4K 21.5-inch model at $1,299. The updated iMacs  be available later today.

Apple announced a new version of the operating system for its computers today called macOS High Sierra. No, seriously! It  be available as a developer beta today, in public beta later this month, and it  roll out to the public for free this fall.
"We talked to the guys and they said ‘this might be misconstrued,’ but they assured us this name is fully baked,” Apple’s senior vice president of software Craig Federighi joked onstage.
But the updated version of Apple’s macOS Sierra operating system promises to be faster, safer, and help applications use less space than ever. A big part of this  be Apple’s File System replacing the Hierarchical File System, which the company claims its own file system  be more safe and stable. It   be much faster.
On the performance side, Safari’s JavaScript performance  be 80 percent faster than Chrome’s, according to Federighi. Safari on macOS High Sierra     get some security upgrades. The browser  use machine learning to identify and block ad trackers as you navigate around the web, and  be capable of blocking autoplay videos. The Mail application, meanwhile,  take up 35 percent less space than it has in the past.
The Photos app is getting refreshed in High Sierra, too. Apple’s giving it an overhaul that takes what was mostly a photo management app with light-editing tools and turns it into something that’s much closer to a Photoshop experience. The company promises it  be easier to search through your images now, too.
Everything’s  going to look better on High Sierra. Apple announced a new version of Metal, its graphics technology, called Metal 2. A big advantage of the upgrade to Metal is that macOS  now be able to support VR — something Apple showed off by bringing Lucasfilm’s ILMXLAB onstage to demo a new Star Wars VR experience featuring Darth Vader.

Apple has just announced that watchOS 4, the next version of its smartwatch platform,  be arriving later this fall. It includes new features for watchfaces, such as complications updating based on time of day or location, and a new Siri-based watchface. The Siri watchface uses machine learning to determine what information is most useful to you at a given point in time. That information can include flight boarding passes, time of sunset, or smart home control.
In addition, Apple has developed a kaleidoscope watchface and new character faces to join the Mickey and Minnie Mouse options already available. The new characters include Woody, Jesse, and Buzz from the Toy Story movie franchise.
WatchOS 4   bring updates to the watch’s fitness tracking, including a new user interface for the workout app and new integrations with gym equipment manufacturers. This integration  provide information such as incline and intensity to the Watch for more accurate workout tracking. Apple says Watch wearers  be able to link their devices with the gym equipment through NFC.
Music management is  improved for watchOS 4; the Watch  automatically import Apple Music playlists and can support multiple playlists. Apple has  redesigned the dock with a vertical interface for scrolling through recent apps.
Overall, the updates that Apple has shown off so far are not nearly as dramatic of a change as watchOS 3 was, but  pinpoint specific areas to improve the user experience. Developers  be able to access a preview version of watchOS 4 starting today, while a public release  be available this fall.

The rumors were true: Amazon’s video app is finally coming to Apple’s TV streaming box. Today at WWDC, it was announced that Amazon Prime Video  soon be available for Apple TV. The app  let users stream original hits like Transparent, Bosch, Mozart in the Jungle, Catastrophe, and more. Apple CEO Tim Cook said that Amazon Video for Apple TV  be released “later this year.”
That’s  when Apple plans to release more details about what’s next for tvOS; the Amazon announcement was the platform’s only mention on stage today. That’s an unusual departure, as Apple usually reveals at least a few new tvOS software features at its developer conference. In its own tweet announcing the news, Amazon said that it plans to integrate with the TV app on Apple TV.
You asked (a lot). We listened. Amazon Prime Video is coming to the TV App and all Apple TVs this year.
Prime Video’s arrival on Apple TV signals the end of a years-long squabble between Apple and Amazon. Jeff Bezos has previously said that the two sides couldn’t find “acceptable business terms” for Amazon to put a video app on Apple’s living room device. Amazon stopped selling the Apple TV in 2015 because of its lack of any Prime Video app and convenient access to the company’s content. Amazon has not yet revealed whether the Apple TV  return to its online store as a result of this deal. Recode reported last month that Apple and Amazon were nearing a deal, with BuzzFeed News later confirming that one had been reached.

In late 2016, the focus of Sony’s PlayStation division was on hardware. During a span of around 60 days, the company launched three new devices: a slimmer base PS4, the more powerful PS4 Pro, and the PlayStation VR headset. The surge appears to have been largely a success; the PSVR has topped 1 million units sold, while Sony says the PS4 is “close to” hitting the 60 million mark.
The question mark is the PS4 Pro. The company isn’t releasing specific sales data for the upgraded hardware, but it says that since the debut in November, one in five new PS4s sold has been the Pro model. (Sony says the actual number “runs into the millions.”) Nonetheless, Sony is committed to the Pro and the shift its added power represents.
“We see 4K as being the next HD,” says Shawn Layden, president and CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment America, “and PlayStation 4 Pro is our answer to that opportunity.”
For many consumers, some confusion remains around the PS4 Pro. While the hardware features an enhanced GPU and the ability to play games and other media in 4K, it’s not always clear which games or developers are actually supporting the device, or what features are only available on the pricier console.
When Prey launched on May 8th, for instance, it purportedly supported PS4 Pro. But it wasn’t until last week that a patch was released, adding in a large number of Pro-specific improvements.
In comparison to Microsoft’s upcoming Project Scorpio — which the company says  offer 4K support and performance improvements for all Xbox One games — the advantages of upgrading to PS4 Pro aren’t as immediately clear.
According to Jim Ryan, president and CEO and Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe, the responsibility to support the hardware lies with game developers. That is to say, each developer must spend time and resources to tweak and patch their games to take advantage of the PS4’s added power.
“It’s one of those things where we very much leave it to the content creator to make what they  of the power of the machine,” he says. “I think the proof of the pudding is in the tasting; when you look at something like Horizon Zero Dawn, which is just gorgeous on PS4 Pro, you can see firsthand what the device delivers. Now there are other games where the benefits of Pro are less apparent, and frankly in some cases less necessary. So it’s down to the individual developer.”
Project Scorpio is expected to launch later this year, but at Microsoft’s E3 Keynote on June 11th the company  be revealing more details about the console. According to Ryan, the relative mystery around Scorpio, along with PS4 Pro’s one-year head start, has been advantageous for Sony. “We were able to get out and lay out our agenda before anybody else,” he says. “We don’t know yet when Microsoft  come with Scorpio, there’s much that’s yet to be known about that product. We don’t know the date, we don’t know the price, we don’t know the quantities. So we’re able to get out there and do our thing, and we’re very happy about that.”
The entire concept of mid-cycle upgrades like PS4 Pro and Project Scorpio — consoles that are more powerful than their predecessors, but not an entirely new generation of hardware — is still largely unproven territory, and recent studies suggest that a majority of consumers are unaware of the new devices and the advantages they offer.
Historically, raw power has had little impact on the success of a console; just look at the meteoric sales of the original Wii compared to the more powerful PS3 and Xbox 360. That said, Ryan believes updates like the PS4 Pro  help Sony appeal to early adopters and those consumers who don’t even know what a PS4 Pro is.
“For us, it’s about trying to strike a balance between having a platform have a certain lifespan that  allow developers to become familiar, and to exploit the platform, but at the same time, to allow those who wish to upgrade mid-cycle to have something that’s new and shiny and more powerful,” he says. “I think we’ve struck really an elegant balance between those two factors.”
Sony has now sold more than 1 million PlayStation VR headsets, the company announced today. The news follows a reveal back in February that the PSVR had topped 915,000 units sold since its debut last October. It puts PSVR ahead of direct competitors like the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift — according to research firm SuperData, the two sold 420,000 and 243,000 units respectively by the end of 2016 — but still well back of Samsung’s Gear VR, which has sold more than 5 million units globally. Shawn Layden, president and CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment America, admits there’s still plenty of work to be done, especially given the large install base of PS4 owners, which is approaching 60 million. “It’s still just a million units,” he says.
Layden expects sales to pick up this year in large part because of availability. “We’ll have freer supply in the marketplace,” he says of 2017. “We got to a point around Christmas where you would be hard-pressed to find VR anywhere. So we dialed back some of our promotional activity at that time because we didn’t want to be promoting a platform for people to find out they couldn’t get it. I didn’t want to create more unhappy customers.”
Software  be a big focus. When PSVR launched, it was released alongside a surprisingly robust lineup of virtual reality experiences, including well-received titles like Thumper and Rez Infinite. Since then, however, the release schedule has died down significantly, with few notable highlights outside of the VR mode for Resident Evil 7.
Last month, however, saw the release of sci-fi shooter Farpoint and the Aim Controller peripheral, which Layden believes is the start of a “second wave” of games hitting the platform. “When a new console or a new platform launches, there’s a lot of activity driving launch day,” he says. “And then there’s the inevitable lull between that and the next launch of titles. I think we’re seeing that happening now. Farpoint is the lead of that, and we’ll be talking about a number of other titles at E3.” According to Sony, PSVR owners have purchased 5.25 million VR games to date, and play an average of 25 minutes per session.
Outside of games, Sony is  looking to expand the platform with different types of experiences. To that end, Sony Pictures is bringing an upcoming experience based on Breaking Bad to PSVR, which  be helmed by the show’s creator Vince Gilligan. “For PSVR, we came to it from a gaming context,” Layden says. “But we knew at the time when we were developing it that a lot of people  have interest in this.”
One big question that remains is the life cycle of a platform like PSVR. New consoles come out on average around every 5 to 6 years, while smartphones are often refreshed on an annual basis. It’s not clear yet where virtual reality hardware like PSVR fits on that spectrum.
“With VR, it’s a totally brave new world,” says Layden. “We’re still trying to understand exactly what people are going to want to do in that medium. It’s hard to make predictions about it. People  want it to be smaller, lighter, wireless — these are all things we’re looking at from a conventional iteration process. But I don’t presume to be able to tell you what VR is going to look like in the year 2018 or 2019. We’re going to find out together as we go along.”
Facial recognition systems have made huge technological leaps in recent years — offering definitive identification in seconds, from as far as 350 meters away — but there’s one scenario where they still fall short: the car. Modern systems still struggle to identify faces through glass, particularly the slanted windshield of an automobile. Current systems at land borders in Hong Kong perform facial recognition through rolled-down windows, simply to avoid the confounding effect of the glass.
But over the past few months, a new system has emerged to solve that problem, developed at Oak Ridge National Laboratory at the request of US Customs and Border Patrol. Still largely secret, the system draws on light-field sensor arrays to mitigate the glass barrier, allowing cameras to focus past the reflections on the windshield to the faces of the drivers and passengers. If effective, it could pave the way for far more aggressive deployment of facial recognition at automotive crossings.
The system arose out of an initiative called biometric exit, which mandates a face or fingerprint verification of every US visitor as they exit the country. At airports, that has meant a massive push for facial recognition cameras at departure gates and elsewhere — but land borders present unique challenges. Most land visitors arrive in cars, and windshields make it difficult to reliably capture facial images. According to a GAO report released in February, the available technologies “would require all passengers to stop and exit their vehicle to be photographed or scanned.” The result would create unworkable delays at some of America’s busiest crossing points, particularly at the Mexican border.
In June, Customs reached out to Oak Ridge National Laboratory for a solution, and recent statements indicate that they’ve found one. The lab still hasn’t publicly discussed its findings (a representative declined to comment for this piece), but at a conference in April, CBP executive director Colleen Manaher said the lab had made progress with a system called a plenoptic camera.
“The camera they have developed can go into a vehicle through tint and glare,” Manaher told the crowd. “I’m looking at it through the naked eye and I can’t see in, but there on that screen are two people, the passenger and the driver, in facial recognition quality.” The camera is still in the prototype phase, but for Manaher and others at Customs, it presents a unique chance to break the technological stalemate.
The biggest problem for in-car facial recognition is the glass barrier, which adds reflections that confuse many algorithms, and  cuts down on the total amount of available light. The details of Oak Ridge’s plenoptic camera are still largely undisclosed, but the general technology could address both problems.  called light-field cameras, plenoptic systems use an array of sensors to capture as much light information as possible, far more than would be necessary to construct a single static photograph. That means more light overall, but  enough information to perceive depth, a crucial element in distinguishing glass reflections from the features of the face behind it.
Got a tip for us? Use SecureDrop or Signal to securely send messages and files to The Verge without revealing your identity.
While the technology is relatively new to government agencies, it’s been available to consumers for years. The Lytro camera, first released in 2012, uses a similar system to let consumers tweak the focus and perspective of a photo in post-processing. Colvin Pitts, a senior architect at Lytro, says the camera’s depth-sensing capability could be particularly useful when cleaning up an image for facial recognition. “Because it lets you separate objects in space, you can imagine focusing one image on the tinted windshield and another image where you expect the driver to be,” Pitts says. “With some clever image processing, you could remove some portion of what you get from the windshield.”
It’s still unclear how reliable those techniques would be in the field, and Pitts cautioned that showing early success might be easier than developing a reliable system. “Solving some of the cases is a lot easier than solving all of the cases,” he told The Verge. That’s consistent with Manaher’s early assessment, which described the system as “very prototypey.”
As the technology develops, it could enable ambitious new facial recognition projects, particularly when combined with automatic license plate recognition or ALPR technology. Last Year, New York governor Andrew Cuomo announced a plan called New York Crossings that would install facial recognition cameras alongside ALPR systems at every bridge and tunnel leading into Manhattan, although experts say there are still significant logistical challenges to such a system. If implemented, New York Crossings would give officials identifying information on hundreds of thousands of individuals as they enter and exit New York City, the vast majority of which would not be suspected of any crime.
While it may be years before the systems are deployed, the issue is already raising privacy concerns. Clare Garvie, an associate at Georgetown Law’s Center on Privacy and Technology, says on-road systems like New York Crossings raise serious user consent issues. “It doesn’t matter how much notice is given the the public in advance,” Garvie says. “If these cameras are installed on gantries over main arteries, there is very little practical way to opt out of this system.”
National insurer AAA is raising its prices for Tesla’s Model S and Model X, citing higher-than-average claim rates and repair costs for the two cars. According to a report from Automotive News, AAA said it could raise its premiums by as much as 30 percent for the vehicles. Other large insurers including State Farm and Geico told the publication they couldn’t say whether or not they would  increase prices, but noted that data about claim frequency is always used to calculate insurance premiums.
Tesla itself disputes the move, saying the AAA has made its decision based on faulty information from the Highway Loss Data Institute. A spokesperson for Tesla told Automotive News: “This analysis is severely flawed and is not reflective of reality.”
The crux of the matter is whether or not Tesla’s cars have a higher-than-average claim rate for crashes and collisions. Usually, these averages are calculated by comparing the number of claims with similar cars. In this case, the Model S and Model X are categorized as “large luxury vehicles” — a class that  includes the BMW 5 series, Mercedes-Benz E class, Audi A6, and Volvo XC70. But, Tesla says, it’s “false and misleading” to compare the Model S and X to the likes of a Volvo station wagon, pointing out that its cars have faster acceleration rates and better passenger safety.
In general, says the Highway Loss Data Institute, luxury vehicles are more expensive to insure because they’re involved in more collisions than other cars (13 percent more) and cost more to repair (about 50 percent more). But Tesla’s vehicles stand out even among this crowd, says the HLDI, with Model X owners filing insurance claims 41 precent more than average, and with these claims costing 89 percent more than average to fix.
“Teslas get into a lot of crashes and are costly to repair afterward,” Russ Rader of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety told Automotive News. “Consumers  pay for that when they go to insure one."
WWDC 2017 is finally here, and it’s almost time to see what Apple has in store for this year, with everything from a new version of iOS to brand-new hardware possibly making an appearance.
Google and Microsoft had their turns in the past few weeks to show their visions of the future of computing, and now it’s Apple’s turn. As has become tradition, Apple CEO Tim Cook  take the stage to kick off the conference with a keynote that  highlight what the Cupertino company has planned for your Apple hardware and software.
Related
On the software side of things, we expect to get our first look at iOS 11 and macOS 10.13, along with whatever California locale Apple decides to dub the latest version of desktop OS, as well as the annual updates to the tvOS and watchOS platforms. While the rumor mill has been quieter than usual when it comes to Apple’s software revisions this year, the word is that there might be an updated user interface in store for the iPhone, along with some more minor updates to Apple’s other operating systems. Of course, all eyes  be on Siri this year. As Amazon, Google, and even Microsoft are focusing attention on their own AI assistants, Apple is in danger of falling behind.
That brings us right to the hardware side of the rumors, which are centered on the introduction of a new “Siri speaker” that would bring Apple’s digital assistant on a level playing field with devices like the Amazon Echo or Google Home. There are conflicting reports as to what the device would actually look like, but if Apple can bring itself to open up Siri to developers like it has for watchOS or tvOS, it could be a powerful platform connecting the various components of Apple’s ecosystem together.
Along with a smart speaker, we could see some spec-bumped MacBooks, and maybe a new screen size for the iPad Pro. Plus, astute observers have noted that June 2017 is the actual 10th anniversary of the original iPhone launch... and while new phones this early in the year seem highly unlikely, anything could happen.
As always, The Verge  be on the ground in San Jose to bring you all the latest news as it happens. Here’s how you can follow along:
Starting time: San Francisco: 10AM / New York: 1PM / London: 6PM / Berlin: 7PM / Moscow: 8PM / Beijing: 1AM (June 6th) / Tokyo: 2AM (June 6th) / Sydney: 3AM (June 6th).
Live blog: Tune into The Verge live blog for up-to-the-second updates, commentary, and pictures directly from the venue, or follow below.

Keynote live stream: Apple’s live stream is available on the company's own website, though it requires either Safari or Microsoft Edge on the desktop.
Live tweeting: Follow @verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and details as they emerge.

It’s been more than 20 years since Microsoft used the Workstation branding in its Windows 4.0 Workstation edition, but it appears the company is ready to bring it back. Twitter users @AndItsTito and @GrandMofongo have discovered references to a new edition of Windows 10 in a build Microsoft accidentally released to testers last week. Described as “Windows 10 Pro for Advanced PCs,” the new version appears to cater for significant hardware demands.
In a leaked slide, Microsoft describes the edition as “Windows 10 Pro for Workstation” with four main capabilities:
Microsoft is clearly targeting this new edition of Windows 10 to power users who are processing mass amounts of data each day. This  likely be used mostly in enterprise scenarios, and the software giant appears to still be working on the exact feature set and naming.
Apple’s big Worldwide Developers Conference keynote kicks off in just over 10 hours, and the company itself may have let slip a major piece of news. As spotted by developer Steve Troughton-Smith, the iOS App Store currently has a placeholder listing for an Apple-developed app called Files. The listing doesn’t have many details, but the app apparently requires the as-yet unannounced iOS 11 and its icon is unmistakably that of a macOS-style folder.
The obvious reading here is that Apple is overhauling iOS’s approach to file management. Ever since the original iPhone was released in 2007, Apple’s mobile devices have abstracted away files wherever possible, leaving the handling of documents to individual apps and cloud services.
Related
The current iCloud Drive app gives some semblance of a file structure, but the files themselves have to be stored on iCloud, whereas Android allows for traditional on-device file management and integration with various cloud storage providers. Apple is widely expected to make improvements to iPad productivity in particular this year, and iOS file management is certainly an area with room for improvement.
We’ll have to wait a little longer for the WWDC keynote to find out exactly how far Apple plans to go. But it might not necessarily be a huge philosophical reversal for the company — Steve Jobs told Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in 2005 that “eventually, the file system management is just going to be an app for pros and consumers aren’t going need to use it.”
Just a few months after being edged out of Facebook, Oculus founder Palmer Luckey has a new startup, in a new industry — defense. The New York Times reports that Luckey is working on surveillance technology designed to be used at national borders and at military bases, using a variety of sensors to watch for people crossing between countries or into restricted areas illegally.
In pitching the technology, Luckey has reportedly secured meetings with key White House representatives, including Trump right-hand man Steve Bannon. He could  secure funding for the venture, with PayPal founder Peter Thiel apparently mulling investment through his Founder’s Fund company.
The planned system uses LIDAR and infrared sensors, as well as regular cameras, to monitor perimeter areas. People familiar with the technology say that it  be able to distinguish between moving targets through specialized software — identifying the difference between humans or coyotes, for example — and even detect drones flying in the vicinity.
Luckey outlined his plans in an email to the NYT, saying that while governments were spending more than ever on defense, innovation had been slowing down. “We need a new kind of defense company, one that  save taxpayer dollars while creating superior technology to keep our troops and citizens safer,” he said. His proposed surveillance system could be mounted on poles — a solution that Luckey reportedly sees as a cheaper and easier way to restrict the US-Mexico border than Trump’s oft-mentioned wall.
To that end, Luckey has apparently started canvassing the current US administration to sell them on his surveillance idea. The New York Times says that he has spoken with the president’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon, about using similar technology to monitor the country’s southern border. Gizmodo first reported news of another meeting, held in the White House in April, between Luckey and Ryan Zinke, the secretary of the interior. A spokesperson for Zinke said there had been no action from the meeting, but confirmed that Luckey had been pitching the secretary on border control technology.
The first investment for the new company could come from another Trump ally — Peter Thiel. Both Luckey and Thiel (who hit headlines last year for bankrolling Hulk Hogan’s lawsuit in a bid to bring down Gawker), have distinguished themselves over the past few years as some of the few big Silicon Valley figures ing to publicly support Republican candidates and politics. Thiel donated $1.25 million to Donald Trump’s election campaign late in the cycle, before stepping into a role in the president-elect’s transition team.
While Luckey previously denied being a Trump supporter, it was revealed that he donated thousands of dollars to an organization devoted to attacking Hillary Clinton with memes during the presidential campaigns. Earlier this year, Luckey  donated $100,000 to Trump’s inaugural celebrations, hiding the cash behind shell corporations named after SNES video game Chrono Trigger. These actions have been seen as contributing factors to his departure from Facebook, where he had retained a role after Oculus was bought out for $2 billion in 2014.
Previously an outsized personality, online and at a string of industry events, Luckey had effected a policy of radio silence during his latter days at Facebook, but his departure marked a renewed public presence. He was pictured in a bikini during a VR convention in Japan, cosplaying as Metal Gear Solid V character Quiet, but  showed a ingness to return to politics, holding a fundraiser for Texas senator and failed Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz.
That fundraiser could be an indication of Luckey’s politics, or simply his business nous, with Cruz as one of the loudest proponents for border security. Luckey’s new venture might not be as thrilling to the average consumer as Oculus was, but with people like Cruz in positions of power in the current White House, it may have an easier time finding a lucrative market.
In a thread on Reddit, three alleged Foxconn employees have posted information about some of Apple’s upcoming products, such as the iPhone 7S and iPhone 8, the rumored Siri Speaker, smart glasses, and more, just days before the company is set to start WWDC on Monday.
According to the subreddit’s moderators, the identities of the posters have been verified with proper documentation and evidence, but it’s not clear how trustworthy the information is. AppleInsider notes that there’s some basis to take this information with a grain of salt, and the mods noted that they’re only able to verify that the users in question would have access to this information.
Here’s an overview of what they revealed, and we’ll see tomorrow how accurate it is.
One of the more interesting sets of details was about Apple’s rumored augmented reality Glasses. Reports of the devices surfaced last fall, and Apple CEO Tim Cook recently noted that the company has invested in AR.
According to Foxconninsider, the project is called Project Mirrorshades (a reference to a 1980s Cyberpunk anthology?), which would be designed to bring AR to a larger audience.
The glasses consist of a “Kopin NED Acetate frame, Polarisized or prescription lens with Zeiss smart optics, Bone induction modules Microphones (noise cancellation), Light sensor Accelerometer for step tracking and head movement, app navigation Magnetometer for navigation, Capacitive Pavel Ceramic battery, Apple chipset, [and] Charging circuit BL5 Induction module.” They  reportedly came in crystal, champagne, and black colors.
Movement would play some role in the function of the glasses: Foxconninsider noted that for an app like Tinder, a user could shake their head for no, or nod for yes. A “small capacitive strip on” the arm would allow users to accept calls and control the volume, while Siri could  be used to make calls. The device would use a prism that “conveys NED display image to lens,” and would have 428 x 240 resolution.
The insiders noted that they only saw a “transparent reader lens but I understand they can procure polarised or prescription lenses,” that the frames were “Cellulose acetate Injection mold frames into an aluminum mold,” that they came in two sizes (men’s and women’s), and that they had a P3 frame design. There was  the possibility that there would be seasonal design updates. The materials cost for the devices would be around $150, which Foxconninsider noted would likely place the retail price in the $600.
It’s not clear if Mirrorshades  go forward, however. Foxconninsider explained that while they were a “unique design,” there was a 65 percent chance that the entire project would be canceled because the batteries are difficult to produce.
Foxconninsider referred to the overhauled iPhone as the iPhone X, and that production has been delayed, which is in line with some rumors that have surfaced recently. The user noted that some of the leaked designs weren’t accurate, and explained that the new version looked “more like an iPhone 7 with glass and without the AuthenTec's capacitive touch module.” When asked which leaked image it looked like the most, they said that the middle one was the most accurate. The rear camera has been reoriented, and the bezel on the phone  be thinner on the Y-axis.
They  reported that they saw some “test units with fingerprint scanners mounted below the glass, but performance and yield rates were not good.” They explained that they haven’t seen a rumored rear fingerprint scanner, speculating that it might have been misinformation. The phone  apparently  use facial detection and a retina scanner, which  be “included in the front facing camera modules.”
They detailed some other tidbits about the overhauled model: it would come with 3GB RAM, and it won’t have an aluminum unibody, but instead  have a “composite glass to allow wireless charging,” with a rear panel. They  noted that the new iPhone  be “water resistant” (a feature already shared by the iPhone 7), and that they won’t use USB-C.
The user spoke a bit about an previously rumored iPhone 7 refresh: noting that it’ll have an aluminum unibody instead of a glass chassis, and that it won’t have wireless charging.
Apple is thought to be revealing its Siri-powered home device tomorrow, and Foxconninsider had some details about the device. They described the device as having a similar shape to that of the Mac Pro, but smaller, but  cautioned that they hadn’t seen it in a while. They did note that they tested three designs: “one design without camera, without screen.” (The third presumably has both.) The device would  come with a “modified A9 chip.”
They predicted that it would be announced soon, but that it wouldn’t come out until later this year.
Apple is reportedly updating its entire MacBook lineup this year, with a new MacBook Pro, a more powerful version of the 12-inch MacBook, and an updated 13-inch MacBook Air. (Foxconninsider noted in the thread that the MacBook Air was being discontinued, so we’ll see.) They noted that they tested some updated MacBook designs, which included “more glass and dark black body,” as well as a reintroduction of white apple light that was discontinued in 2015. When asked if it would be similar to the Thunderbolt Display, they agreed: “Somewhat; similar to the black iPhone 7 and the iPhone X finish (like iPhone 4).”
They  said that the discontinued MagSafe would return in “12-18 months.” When asked if the MacBook Pros would get 3D / Force Touch, they noted that aside from the Touch Bar, no laptops in the 18-month range  have any sort of touch display.
The iMac  reportedly get an SOC and incremental updates, and a full redesign (with smart keys, which  join the Touch Bar, rather than replace it). It is being delayed until next year.
When asked about the keyboards, they noted that they tested “two e-paper technologies; E-ink in black and white and color, other a color Qualcomm display (cancelled due to IP dispute).” They  noted that the keys would be low profile.
They  noted that they don’t have access to the iPads, but did confirm a rumored third iPad size.
Foxconninsider noted that contrary to rumors, Apple is sticking with its lightning cable. When asked about TV panels, they  said that there’ll be some information coming later this year about the Apple TV.
They  spoke a little about some of the projects that have been canceled over the years, listing several: “IoT devices like fitness band, headphone designs, larger keyboard with backlighting etc.”
The thread details a number of specific updates and details about Apple’s next line of products, some of which fit with the rumors that have come in recent months. However, it’s worth noting that it’s not clear how accurate all of these leaks  be, given that the users themselves noted that they haven’t seen some of the devices in a while. We’ll find out tomorrow.
Summer is fast approaching, and with it comes a wave of articles claiming sunscreen is toxic and bad for your health. But is it?
As anyone who has ever gotten a sunburn can attest — sun damage is real. But you can protect yourself! However, the intimidating ingredients list found on most sunscreens may leave you anxious about all those chemicals. The Verge spoke to David Leffell, a professor of dermatology and surgery at the Yale School of Medicine, to put our sunscreen fears to rest.
Along with Batman and Superman, Wonder Woman is a pillar of what’s known among fans as the DC Trinity. At 75 years old, she’s one of the oldest and most enduring of all superheroes, but where her counterparts have been featured in numerous TV shows and movies, Diana of Themyscira hasn’t ever been as lucky. Up until this weekend’s Wonder Woman, she’s only appeared solo in one successful TV series, one failed TV movie, and one direct-to-video animated film. As a matter of fact, as Polygon’s Susana Polo noted, the first major theatrical release Wonder Woman was even in was 2014’s The Lego Movie.
It all goes to show how studios, thanks to a whole lot of laziness, have struggled to figure out what to do with Wonder Woman on-screen. These days, you can watch Diana be amazing on shows like Justice League and Young Justice. But there were so many missteps along the way.
Take the unaired pilot for 1967’s Who’s Afraid of Diana Prince?. At the time, iam Dozier, the executive producer and narrator for the ‘60s Batman series, commissioned a script for a Wonder Woman pilot. The end result was a show that had Diana (played by Ellie Wood Walker) defending the world, all while her mother complained about her being a spinster in the making. It’s goofy and more than a little cringe-worthy (presumably because the writers brought their style over from the Batman series), and it makes all the sense in the world why it didn’t air.
Fifty years later, Wonder Woman is a thousand steps up from Who’s Afraid of Diana Prince?. Diana’s funny and strong, and so is her mother. And at no point is anyone worried about picking up groceries. Keep that in mind if you head to the theater today.
This morning, British prime minister Theresa May spoke to the need for new regulations on the internet to combat extremism, following last night’s terror attack in London.
Yesterday evening, three attackers used a van to ram pedestrians on London Bridge, and proceeded to drive to Borough Market, where they attacked civilians with knives. The attacks left seven people dead and 48 injured in the span of eight minutes before the three attackers were killed by police.
“We cannot allow this ideology the safe space it needs to breed,” May said outside of 10 Downing Street this morning, “yet that is precisely what the internet, and the big companies that provide internet-based services provide.” She went on to say the UK needed undertake new efforts at home, and reach new international agreements with other countries to help “deprive the extremists of their safe spaces online.”
May announced that the attackers were Islamist extremists, but that British authorities haven’t found a common link between last night’s attackers, and the perpetrators behind the attacks at Westminster Bridge in March, and the concert bombing in May. She characterized the incident as a “new trend in the threat we face,” in that attackers are copying the methods of similar attacks. Vox points out that this puts the UK in a “counterterrorism nightmare,” because the attacks are not only difficult to prevent, but because it’s  almost nearly impossible to disrupt the flow of information about the attacks, especially if the attackers aren’t directly linked to one another.
This isn’t the first time that May has made calls to regulate internet behavior. In 2012, then-Home Secretary May drafted a bill that would force internet service providers to retain user data for up to a year. That bill was blocked, but she worked to introduce similar legislation in subsequent years. Last month, her Conservative Party included its intent to enact internet regulations that are designed to combat online extremism and to protect the public from abusive and offensive materials.
Companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Microsoft have ramped up their efforts to combat hate speech online, according to a European commission, although many are still lagging behind their stated commitments. Last month, the European Council approved a set of proposals that  require such companies to block videos containing hate speech and extremist recruiting efforts, while Germany is considering even stiffer penalties for companies that fail to remove hate speech.
After changing hands five times since it was founded in 2003, social bookmarking site Delicious has reached its end. Last week, rival company Pinboard announced that it had acquired the beleaguered site, and that it would be shutting it down as of June 15th.
For a couple of years, Delicious was one of those sites that internet users relied on. Designed to store and share bookmarks, it allowed them to build up a collection of bookmarks that they could access from anywhere. Following its acquisition, Delicious  become a read-only site on June 15th: users won’t be able to save any new bookmarks to the site. The site won’t go away completely: users  still be able to use the site to access their collections. Pinboard owner Maciej Cegłowsk encouraged users to migrate their accounts to his site, and noted that a disabled export feature  be reactivated if users want to go elsewhere.
In the release, Cegłowski explains that he purchased the site (reportedly for a measly $35 thousand) because it was a piece of internet history, and because he didn’t want it to “disappear from the web.” He capped off the announcement by saying “Do not attempt to compete with Pinboard.”
While the site’s heyday has long since passed, Delicious’ influence  linger: it helped to establish social bookmarking in the earlier days of the web, features which have since been incorporated into a number of other sites, such as Pinboard, Pocket, and Pinterest.
My Instagram group chat with my two best friends was popping off this week. “Lmao at Chris liking this,” my friend Colin said to me. I opened the DM to find a photo @emrata, or model Emily Ratajkowski, had posted of herself on a boat with her butt looking good. See above for the post. Apparently Colin was going through @emrata’s feed, and because Instagram lists which of your friends has liked a photo, he saw my boyfriend Chris’ handle.
My immediate reaction wasn’t so much anger as it was confusion and dismay. Why did he like this photo? Is he so un-evolved that he can’t resist the allure of a butt pic? Obviously he liked the photo because he liked what he saw; I understand that, but I still don’t get it. It’s not like I’m afraid he’s going to leave me for @emrata, yet something about the action of his liking turns me off. At the core of my disdain, I think, is the fact that he likes models’ Instagram posts at all. Why like any celebrity’s photo? It’s not like @emrata saw his like and received a boost of serotonin from it. She wasn’t waiting around for him to see the photo, and probably isn’t even the one running her own Instagram. The same goes for all the Kardashians, Beyoncé, Selena Gomez, and Drake. Liking one of their pics is just sending a like into the void solely to boost their numbers.

A post shared by Emily Ratajkowski (@emrata) on May 17, 2017 at 4:50am PDT
I never like celebrities’ posts, other than Ina Garten. I save likes for people I know IRL and who I figure would derive joy out of the fact that I liked their photo. Celebrities don’t need me to acknowledge them, so I don’t. I might bookmark a photo, screenshot it, or send it to my friends to talk about, but I’ll never like. I recognize I might be alone in this behavior, so I polled my colleagues on their thoughts about liking celebrity Instagrams and to posit theories on why my boyfriend liked @emrata’s booty pic.
Kaitlyn: I like celebrity Instagram posts all the time. I liked the Beyoncé pregnancy announcement, just like 11 million other people (as of this writing). I like all of Sophie Turner’s posts, and all of the posts by the guy who plays Archie on Riverdale. I especially enjoy liking posts from Sarah Jessica Parker, whose Instagram is an extremely alluring mix of Amtrak hot dogs, piles of street garbage, and designer shoes. I like posts from Chance the Rapper because Instagram often informs me that my 18-year-old sister has already liked them, and that makes me smile. I like Kim Kardashian’s posts once in a while if North is in them because, my god, she is just the cutest. No offense but I don’t feel like I should have to explain my reasoning, as there really isn’t any and I’m not hurting anyone. Relax!
That said, your boyfriend liking this pic is a little weird, but mostly because he’s a boy. I don’t feel it’s too controversial for me to say that the rules of “Instagram creeping” are slightly different for me, a girl.
We would like to share our love and happiness. We have been blessed two times over. We are incredibly grateful  that our family  be growing by two, and we thank you for your well wishes. - The Carters
A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Feb 1, 2017 at 10:39am PST
Megan: I am a chronic “never a follower, never a liker” of celebrities and that weird group of people that I guess fall under the “influencer” brand. I follow two New York-based models on Instagram, mostly because I like to imagine what my life would be like if I had money. , they post pictures of really good outfits. I say I could re-create those looks, but that’s a sweet lie I allow myself. My fashion sense is stripping entire outfits off mannequins at the mall.
I’m the wackadoo who  turn on private browsing to go stalk the accounts of celebrities (or even just like, CW show stars that I find hot, but would never admit to paying attention to). Like, dang, I’m all up in Nina Dobrev and KJ Apa’s feeds from time to time, trying to figure out who’s pals with who from their respective shows IRL. I  like to ponder how I, too, can get my teeth to shine so white that they may blind prospective mates. But, to paraphrase the 1997 classic film Titanic, a woman’s social habits are a deep ocean of secrets. These lil creeps are just for me.
Chris, I’m afraid, does not appear to be an ocean. I would dub him lake / 10, a scoring system that equates to, “well, that is a nice butt pic.”
Perfect way to end a day of work!  Dumb bell swing / burpees  1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1 reps Eg. 1 DB swing 1 burpee, 2 DB swing 2 burpees and so on and so on to 10 then back down again. Such a sick workout, perfect if you are running low on time but still really want to smash yourself. 10/15 mins! Thanks to the uso @joenaufahu for this one
A post shared by KJ Apa (@kjapa) on May 28, 2017 at 11:20am PDT
Michael: I don’t follow many celebrities — Drake, Rihanna, and that’s about it. I don’t think I’ve ever liked any of their posts. I guess in my head, a like is a discrete message from the viewer to the poster that says, “I like what you did here,” or “Damn, WTF is that?” or “This is chill,” or “Wish I was there,” or “Yes, your dog is cute” — whatever it is.
What’s the point of sending a message if the person on the receiving end won’t see it — or couldn’t care less? Maybe you’ve developed a double tap reflex when you see something that pleases you. Maybe it’s performative — you’re trying to send a message to friends who follow the same celebrity that you, too, liked that celebrity’s photo. Honestly, I have no clue.
I don’t know why your boyfriend liked @emrata’s post. Maybe he’s hoping that @emrata  receive his message, which, in this case, probably translated to “this is chill.” If so, he’s delusional.

A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on May 2, 2017 at 3:07pm PDT
Lizzie: I would say the majority of the people I follow on Instagram are beautiful strangers who get Nikes sent to them for free, and I’ve never dropped a like on any of their posts. I’ll admit I’m pretty stingy with my likes in general, despite feeling an obligation to heart all of my friends’ posts. If I don’t give my dear friend Tara a like on her Icelandic vacation pic, why would I give one to a random streetwear model whom I follow for inspiration and envy?
Additionally, most of my follows are probably mid-tier Instagram celebrities — I’d guess they earn a decent amount of money just by looking cool in cool places, but they probably don’t get recognized when they go to the drug store. To me, this means that they’re still pretty normal people, and I don’t wanna look like a freak for liking pics of their bootleg designer logo T-shirts before I go to bed.
As for why Chris liked Emily Ratajkowski’s photo... maybe they’re cousins?
Nuh Shake Nuh Break
A post shared by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on May 21, 2017 at 11:07pm PDT
Paul: I'm really curious myself about what a like even means. Is it a Facebook poke? A personal declaration of liking something? A bookmark? A sharing action? It's easier for me to understand someone commenting on an Instagram post, even if they're lost in a sea of voices, because I understand talking. But a like? It's almost a meaningless form of communication.
I just pulled up my Instagram and counted the posts I've liked since I joined the service five years ago: 105. Most of my likes have gone to family, a few to close friends, and zero to celebrities. My likes are typically a "More of this, please!" sort of statement, which I would like to be heard.
Maybe likes on a celebrity photo could be seen as a sort of vote. Maybe in aggregate, Chris' encouragement of @emrata  lead her to produce more similar Instagram content in the future? If that's the case, while Chris' contribution was small, he's doing his part.
When you're like I have nothing to wear LOL
A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Mar 7, 2016 at 12:07am PST
Zainab: Instagram is definitely my favorite platform, and it’s safe to say I’m a bit of an addict. There’s no meme I haven’t seen, or Tastemade video I haven’t watched. It’s a double-edged sword, though, because on one hand, I’ll find endless inspiration, but on the other hand, I’ll go down the rabbit hole for over an hour and end up on a flat-tummy-tea-promoting fitness girl who has an inexplicably small waist. I’m guilty of throwing certain celebs likes that they definitely don’t need from me, but those are almost always models that look like they were built in labs and have some semblance of a personality: Imaan Hammam, Irina Shayk, and Adriana Lima. @emrata is another “how do you look like that” type of person I follow on the 'gram solely for motivation to go to the gym. (I ended up unfollowing her later on because, yawn.) Other than that, I pretty much follow anyone whose music matters to me and news publications; I see it as my visual Twitter news feed.
There’s a bit of a double standard when it comes to a woman double tapping a butt on Instagram, but when I was scrolling down my feed one morning after a lovely night with my boyfriend, my eyes stopped on that butt picture from @emrata. I’ll admit, I stared — probably for an unhealthy amount of time — but what was I really staring at? My boyfriend’s handle in the “xyz & 800,000 people liked this.” So sneaky, Instagram algorithm. Others might not agree, but I have a problem with this! I find it so Neanderthal-esque that men can’t help but have their fingers slip and double tap a big, almost naked butt. The entire concept of my boyfriend, or boyfriends in general, following random “fitness” girls and models they'll never meet irks me. When they throw them a like is when it reaches another level of dumb for me. Not because I feel threatened, but because it’s such a simple thing to not do when you have a beautiful girl right in front of you!
photo credit one and only @michaelangelnyc
A post shared by irinashayk (@irinashayk) on May 24, 2017 at 9:05am PDT
Micah: I only follow three celebrities on Instagram — Beyoncé, Drake, and Rihanna, the holy trinity of great music and good Instagrams. Usually if I’m scrolling through my feed, liking a bunch of photos from friends, and I see something interesting from one of them, I’ll give it a double tap. But this happens far less often than I like my actual friends’ photos. There’s not much thought that goes into not liking celebrity photos besides “they won’t see it, so why bother,” but then again I’m (relatively) old, and Instagram likes hold no social value for me.
As for Chris, I’m not sure why he liked Emily’s Ratajkowski’s Instagram (again, why bother?), but I’m  not sure why it matters. (Please don’t tweet me your reasons as to why it matters.) People use Instagram in weird and different ways. I  say I am a firm believer in never commenting under a celebrity’s Instagram. It’s tacky and awful and no one should ever do it. Now if Chris starts commenting under Ratajkowski’s posts, well then we need to hold an intervention.
Chris, my boyfriend, who responded by text: “I didn’t really think about it; I just liked it.”
If money were no object, what kind of car would you buy? Many people would probably choose a top-of-the-line sports car, or even a supercar or hypercar. Others might opt for a more practical luxury vehicle and tick all the options, like the Tesla Model S P100D. But regardless of your real-life financial situation, we all basically approach this dream scenario the same way: somewhere in the world there’s a car that we want more than all the others.
For the richest people in the world, though, this game has an entirely different set of rules. Yes, if you have enough money — I’m talking island-buying, jet-flying, so-rich-that-one-minute-spent-deciding-between-cars-would-actually-cost-you-money rich — you can apparently pay Rolls-Royce to design a car for you.
That’s the story the company is telling, anyway, about the new “Sweptail” coupe that was unveiled this past week at the yearly Concorso d’Eleganza Villa d’Este event in Italy. According to a (fantastically baroque) 2,500-plus-word press release issued by the company, a very rich man who considers himself a “connoisseur and collector of distinctive, one-off items including super-yachts and private aircraft” came to Rolls-Royce in 2013 with a request: would the automaker be so kind as to create a bespoke car for him?

Four years and a reported $13 million later, and the answer to that question is in the official press pictures below, which show off what is ostensibly the most expensive new car ever purchased.
The Sweptail is named after the tapered “swept tail” rear ends that helped make the company’s Phantoms famous in the early 20th century. In fact, many of its design elements were plucked from some of those iconic coupes. The Sweptail borrows from the round door look of the 1925 Phantom I, the silhouette of the 1934 Phantom II Streamline Saloon, and the swept tail designs of cars like the 1934 Gurney Nutting Phantom II Two Door Light Saloon.
Of course, this car’s got plenty of 21st century touches, too. The panoramic glass roof makes the one on the Tesla Model X look like a sunroof — there’s practically nothing blocking this mystery buyer’s skyward view while he drives (or gets chauffeured) around town. (Or, as Rolls-Royce put it, “What a place to be as one watches the world slip by through the vast windows and roof, detached from the outside world in a cocoon of luxury whilst feeling one is part of that passing landscape.”)
The interior is lined with “generous quantities” of polished Macassar Ebony and open-pore Paldao wood, because modest amounts of those materials are obviously out of the question. The analog clock in the dash uses machined titanium. The center console hides a champagne chiller and two crystal flutes. Instead of a hidden umbrella, like in the Dawn, the car’s side walls conceal a pair of carbon fiber attaché cases that have been specifically designed to fit the buyer’s laptop, and they match a set of custom luggage found in the trunk. There’s even a shelf for his hat.
So the next time that dream car crosses your mind, remember that you could actually dream even bigger if you had enough money to bend the rules. Who knows? Maybe someday you . If the last two years on this Earth have taught us anything, it’s that everything is possible. Especially a custom-built Rolls-Royce with a built-in champagne cooler.
The X Prize Foundation has launched a number of competitions over the years that include everything from addressing water quality and women’s safety to exploring the depths of the ocean, to sending rovers to the Moon. Now, it’s assembled a supergroup of some of the world’s best known science fiction authors to help the organization imagine what the future  look like.
The Science Fiction Advisory Council is made up of 64 advisors, which includes some of the biggest names from the world of science fiction literature, film, and television: Charlie Jane Anders, Paolo Bacigalupi, Cory Doctorow, Neil Gaiman, David Goyer, Nancy Kress, Annalee Newitz, Larry Niven, Bruce Sterling, J. Michael Straczynski, Charles Stross, Andy Weir, and many others. Eric Desatnik, X Prize’s senior public relations director, told The Verge in an email that he brought the idea of the advisory council to the foundation’s founder, Peter Diamandis last year, who “said yes before I could even finish my sentence.”
The goal, he explains, “is to accelerate positive change in the world by bringing together” people who have already been doing just that. He noted that several of the foundation’s projects, were inspired directly by science fiction stories, including this the tricorder-style device that was awarded a $2.6 million prize.
The group  meet regularly throughout the year in virtual and in-person meetings, and  work with X Prize to figure out various “roadmaps” to “identify the ideal catalysts, drivers and mechanisms” for future prizes, focusing on several broad categories: Planet & Environment; Energy & Resources; Shelter & Infrastructure; Health & Wellbeing; Civil Society; Learning & Human Potential; and Space & New Frontiers.
The group’s first project  be a collaboration with Japan’s All Nippon Airways, Seat14C, which the foundation calls a “digital science fiction anthology featuring original stories by members of the advisory council, told from the perspectives of passengers onboard a fictional ANA flight from Tokyo to San Francisco who mysteriously find themselves transported 20 years in the future.”

You now have another opportunity to save on the Echo Dot if you missed out on Amazon’s flash deal last week. For a few days only, Amazon is offering a targeted sale on the Echo Dot, and it’s adding the Echo to the mix (restrictions listed below).
Sonos just announced discounts on the Play:1 and SUB. If you missed out on the Play:1 deal at Amazon last month, now is your chance to save on the wireless smart speaker.
Other standout deals include Monoprice’s big sale on USB-C cables and gadgets, and 20 percent off DJI’s OSMO Mobile Handheld Stabilized Gimbal (the first discount we are seeing on this).
Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s roundup here.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
This post has been updated on June 4th to add the Sonos deals and note a price change on the Dell Inspiron 2-in-1 15-inch Touch-Screen Laptop.


Another one of SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rockets successfully landed back on Earth this evening after launching cargo and supplies to the International Space Station. This time, the rocket touched down at the company’s landing site at Cape Canaveral, Florida, called Landing Zone 1.
That means SpaceX’s success streak of recovering its vehicles on solid ground continues. So far, all five of the company’s attempts to land on land have worked just fine. Now, SpaceX is in possession of ten Falcon 9 rockets that have flown to space and back — either by landing on ground or on one of the company’s drone ships at sea. One of those rockets has even landed twice.
SpaceX’s landings may seem fairly routine at this point, but the cargo the rocket was carrying before it landed was pretty significant — or at least, what was carrying the cargo was unique. For this flight, SpaceX used a Dragon cargo capsule that had already been to space before. The Dragon previously flew on SpaceX’s fourth cargo resupply mission for NASA back in September 2014. It remained in space at the ISS for nearly a month before returning to Earth and splashing down in the Pacific Ocean. It’s the first time a Dragon has been reused for a flight, making SpaceX the first private company to send a vehicle into orbit for a second time.
The Dragon is carrying around 6,000 pounds of supplies and science experiments for the crew of the ISS. That includes a group of fruit flies to test out how the cardiovascular system functions in microgravity, as well as a group of mice to study bone loss in the space environment. Some unique technologies are  riding up inside the Dragon’s trunk — the unpressurized structure attached to the spacecraft that provides support and houses the vehicle’s solar panels. The trunk contains an instrument called NICER, which  eventually be mounted to the outside of the space station to look for neutron stars, as well as a specialized solar panel called ROSA which can be unfurled a bit like a flag. The spacecraft is slated to rendezvous with the station on Monday.
Eventually, SpaceX hopes to keep reusing its Dragon cargo capsules moving forward. That way, the company can at some point shut down production of the vehicle and focus on the production of another spacecraft: the upgraded Dragon. That vehicle, known as Crew Dragon or Dragon 2,  be able to carry people to and from the ISS. A future iteration of the spacecraft   be able to land propulsively, rather than rely strictly on parachutes to lower down to Earth. Thrusters embedded in the hull of Dragon  allow the vehicle to make a controlled descent to the ground.
And the Dragon cargo vehicles aren’t the only hardware that SpaceX is going to start reusing more often. With a growing stockpile of recovered rockets, the company is slowly starting to send them back into space. SpaceX launched its first previously flown Falcon 9 in March and plans to fly its next used booster in a couple of weeks to launch a satellite for Bulsatcom. The rockets and Dragon capsules have to be inspected and potentially refurbished before they fly again, which requires time and money. But SpaceX is hoping to reduce that turnaround time, potentially saving them a good chunk of money in manufacturing costs in the process.
SpaceX says it could re-fly as many as six used Falcon 9s before the end of 2017. And it looks like there may be a lot of opportunity for the company to do so. SpaceX has been upping the cadence of its launches as of late. Its last launch was just two weeks ago, and its next one is tentatively two weeks away as well. SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell promised the company would increase its launch frequency this year, and it looks like that may actually be the case.
Today’s launch marked the 100th mission from NASA’s LC-39A, a historic site at the space agency’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The same pad was  used to launch the first crewed mission to the Moon as well as the last Shuttle mission.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that SpaceX had 11 used Falcon 9s in its possession, but it has 10 since one has landed twice. The article has been updated.

Essential hasn’t yet shipped its first smartphone, but Andy Rubin’s new company has already come upon its first trademark dispute. Spigen, a fairly well-known smartphone case and accessory maker, has sent Essential a cease and desist letter demanding that Rubin’s latest business stop using the “Essential” mark. Spigen holds a trademark for the Essential mark that covers a slew of consumer products — though not smartphones directly. Android Police has a good writeup on the situation.
Spigen insists that Essential  “cause confusion” if the company moves forward with its launch of the Essential Phone. In the cease and desist letter, Spigen’s lawyers  point out that Essental had its trademark application denied by the US Patent and Trademark Office — not once, but twice — for this precise reason. In refusing the mark requests from Rubin’s latest business, the USPTO pointed to potential confusion between Essential and Spigen’s Essential sub-brand, which is already being used for a variety of battery packs and other smartphone accessories.
Spigen’s legal team is demading that Essential stop using the term “Essential,” and if a response isn’t received by June 15th, the accessory maker is “prepared to take any and all actions to protect Spigen’s marks.”
The likelihood of this being a major obstacle for Rubin’s Essential is small. It’s more so a nuisance that might require the company to write a check to take care of. But so far, Essential’s official response is that Spigen’s claims are “without merit” and the company plans to “respond accordingly.”
Welcome back to consumer electronics, Andy.
If you live in Canada, you can now preorder a Google Home device. In an ironic twist, Google has beaten Amazon to Canada when it comes to smart assistants — the Echo still isn’t available in the country, despite being available for two years in the US.
The Google Home  cost $179 in Canada, right on par with US pricing when you consider the ongoing devaluation of the Canadian dollar. Google hasn’t given a release date for the speaker yet, but Best Buy’s preorder page says the device  be available on June 26th; Google says two to three weeks. Either way, Canadians should finally be able to yell at an inanimate object like their American neighbors within a few weeks.
The Google Home speaker  be available to purchase from Google, Best Buy, and other retail partners.
Last week, after the Alamo Drafthouse theater in Austin, Texas announced that it would host a screening of Wonder Woman limited to women (with proceeds benefiting Planned Parenthood), the men’s-rights types of the world lost it. The screening, just one of dozens of Wonder Woman screenings scheduled at the Drafthouse, was deemed “sexist,” “illegal,” “tacky,” and “bigoted.” After New York City’s Drafthouse location announced similar screenings, one man filed a civil rights complaint against Alamo Drafthouse. (And, for vague reasons, Carson Daly.)
It’s a run-of-the-mill misogynist hissy fit, similar to those we saw around Paul Feig’s women-led Ghostbusters last summer, or George Miller’s Mad Max: Fury Road — centered on Charlize Theron’s Imperator Furiosa instead of Max — the summer before. But this time, instead of once again picking up a metaphorical machete and attempting to hack through male rage with appeals based in empathy, logic, or historical context, the unified response to the Wonder Woman backlash has so far been “U mad, bro?” It feels like a collective relaxation of muscles we really do need for more important things, and it feels good.
Alamo Drafthouse pointed out in one Facebook comment that they often host group-specific screenings for veterans and active military, but beyond that, did not offer explanation or apology. In fact, whoever’s running the Austin theater’s social-media accounts taunted the trolls. Asked why the theater hasn’t hosted a men-only screening of a film, the theater’s Facebook account answered, “We’ve never done a showing where you had to be a man to get in, but we *did* show the Entourage movie a few years ago.” The New York City branch tweeted GIFs of Wonder Woman dancing after the first showing sold out, and rubbed it in with a popular meme from Fury Road: Imperator Furiosa rolling her eyes, over the closed caption label “Men Yelling Indistinctly.”
pic.twitter.com/DxtIAZlEs2
The NYC location’s Twitter account  noted, “We heard your complaints[,] have taken swift and decisive action. Another women-only #WonderWoman show on sale now!”
The mayor of Austin joined in the day before the film’s release, responding to an angry email from a constituent sarcastically: “I am writing to alert you that your email account has been hacked by an unfortunate and unusually hostile individual. Please remedy your account’s security right away, lest this person’s uninformed and sexist rantings give you a bad name.” A few hours later, New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand announced a fundraiser in which donors (of any amount) would be entered to win an afternoon with her at a private Wonder Woman screening set up to “celebrate strong women and girls.”
The same day, Broadly’s Bethy Squires published a faux-apology from Alamo Drafthouse, which is meant as a joke, but doesn’t much depart from the theater’s official response: “We at the Alamo Drafthouse would like to officially apologize for our role in the end of mankind as we knew it, and the ascendant Gynocracy that followed.”
Inside the Wonder Woman women-only screenings pic.twitter.com/t2HmlavFcz
It’s a sharp break from the reactions to previous controversies. When The Force Awakens star Rey (Daisy Ridley) was derided online by misogynists as a “Mary Sue” — a thinly written wish-fulfillment character who is overly talented and beyond reproach in every way — the well-intentioned lined up to explain all the ways in which she wasn’t. They were rebutting an argument that drew most of its lifeblood from a corner of the internet that frankly didn’t give a shit either way, and was going to hate the movie regardless. To be fair, I’m guilty of this time-sucking argumentation, too, and even wrote a “How to talk about the new Ghostbusters movie with friends, family, and commenters” guide last year, in which I laboriously walked through the illogical arguments against the movie’s existence.
When a tiny fringe group of MRAs threatened to boycott Mad Max: Fury Road, major newspapers and trade publications covered it seriously, as a legitimate threat, rather than the deranged ranting of some really dumb bloggers. “Anti-Feminists Call for Boycott of Mad Max: Fury Road, Citing Feminist Agenda,” The Hollywood Reporter stated solemnly, echoed by CNN. (Compare that to The Washington Post this week: “Men flip out over women-only Wonder Woman screenings”) Fury Road made $379 million that summer, and won six Academy Awards the following year. MRAs later claimed to have robbed The Force Awakens of $4.2 million in gross box office… based on a Twitter poll with 565 respondents. Online outlets reported extensively on that assertion, with some sneers, but with lengthy, meticulous arguments nonetheless.
Acknowledging tantrums like this at all is dicey, especially when most of what any troll wants is oxygen and a megaphone. But denying them the headlines that make them sound powerful, and the pleading responses that make them feel catered to, is a start. Sure, laughing might make them angrier, but this is the rare situation in which it’s possible to argue that male rage matters less and less.
I got to see Wonder Woman by myself weeks ago so shut up there's already been a man-only screening.  Oh and it's a godddamn delight. pic.twitter.com/PHWQWxcIwN
The fact that Wonder Woman is the most expensive movie ever made by a woman, and that it stars a woman as its sole lead superhero, is not irrelevant. Men who work themselves into a frothing fury at perceived film industry slights lean on the only piece of leverage they have — their wallets. Throughout the age of the blockbuster, Hollywood has catered to dollars earned and spent by men. For the better part of two decades, it felt like nobody remembered that Titanic was the top-grossing film of the 1990s with a take of $659 million. Or that Nora Ephron made four shoestring-budget movies grossing $90 million or more that decade. Or that Julia Roberts was, in that same period, the most bankable movie star in the world.
Somehow, it’s only in the last few years that studio heads have experienced the epiphany that, yes, women have and spend money, too. Blockbusters attended by majority-women audiences — the Fifty Shades trilogy, the Magic Mike movies, Bridesmaids (famously billed with the tagline “chick flicks don’t have to suck”), and its children — have recently made a comeback.
Though it’s unfair that so much is riding on Patty Jenkins and her $150 million budget, which The Hollywood Reporter went so far as to refer to as a “gamble,” it’s a fair assumption that Warner Bros. has chosen to pursue an audience it didn’t really notice before. When men threatened to take their money away from Mad Max: Fury Road or Star Wars: The Force Awakens, despite the ridiculous math propping up claims that these online boycotts could even make a dent in those ticket sales, the media indulged the questions: could they really do it? Would there be cold, hard cash consequences for the slightest tinge of progressivism?
That response is missing this time, in part because prior outrage gave us evidence that financial consequences aren’t actually going to materialize. The chokehold these men have had on the film industry is being pulled off, one finger at a time.
You don’t have to personally enjoy superhero movies. I don’t. But this type of controversy has the power to stir something in anyone who cares about seeing cinema reflect and entertain a broader swathe of the population than it used to. (I bought an opening-day ticket to Wonder Woman.) There’s a heavily retweeted joke making the rounds on dozens of copycat Twitter accounts right now, saying that Alamo Drafthouse did more than Warner Bros. to promote Wonder Woman. That isn’t true, but with a handful of women-only screenings, Drafthouse obviously did something — which would have been a minor note in the story of this film’s release, if not for the people it enraged.
So in an ironic twist, the trolls are, for once, the party accidentally feeding the side they can’t fathom and actively despise, instead of the other way around. May they starve.
When it comes to school projects, some parents go all out. One father did just that recently when he constructed an amazing snowspeeder from The Empire Strikes Back out of cardboard for his daughter to take to school.
John Stoddard explained that his daughter’s school holds a “drive-in” movie event each year, “where the kids and their parents are supposed to bring a cardboard car or spaceship to sit in while they watch a movie on the last day of school.” A couple of years ago, his brother made an X-Wing fighter, and this year, Stoddard decided to make his own Star Wars spaceship for his daughter to take with her.
He posted up his build in a series of images to Imgur, which shows how he made the replica vehicle. The cockpit comes from an empty Cuisinart box, he made the wings from a refrigerator box, and used discarded carpet tubes for the cannons. Duct tape and gummed paper tape connect the various parts and reinforce the edges.
Once he finished assembling the body, he painted the ship gray, and added details like the engine’s air intakes. His wife took over after that, adding the orange stripes and some additional fine details. What makes this look even more remarkable is that they topped it off with blaster damage and weathering, which gives the ship a proper worn look that Star Wars is known for.
The final result? An incredibly happy six-year-old.
This series of images show that you don’t necessarily need a workshop full of top-of-the-line-tools and materials to make something that looks utterly spectacular (or an expensive Lego set). Often, it requires a little inspiration, a bit of time, and some work, but in the end, you end up with something really special.
Related

"Don't see an Alien sequel" is some of the most reliable moviegoing advice you can get, but Covenant looked gorgeous — and its reviews have been pretty good, too — so I went to check it out last weekend.
It’s really interesting how many elements Ridley Scott carries over from the original Alien. Covenant has an almost identical structure, one designed to warm you up to the characters, stress you the heck out, and then watch you squirm until it's all over. That's why I was so surprised by (and this is a minor spoiler, so skip ahead if you’re concerned) the introduction of a faster, more aggressive iteration of the classic alien.
Even though the film's structure is similar to the original, the pacing of the scary moments changes in such a huge way because Scott is able to dramatically ramp up the speed. Thinking back to the original Alien, I can barely remember seeing the thing move — now, with CGI, Covenant can show these creatures doing all kinds of a wild, dexterous things. In some cases, I think it works. But overall, I definitely prefer the super slow-burn tension of the original.
Check out nine trailers from this week below.
I certainly didn't peg Murder on the Orient Express as a book likely to receive a star-studded film adaptation, but it's getting a seriously star-studded adaptation, capped off with Kenneth Branagh both directing and starring as the legendary fictional detective Hercule Poirot. The music in this trailer is kind of mismatched, but overall it's an interesting first look with a fun long shot through a train car with the film's cast all reacting to the titular murder. It comes out November 10th.
District 9 director Neill Blomkamp is back with some creepy new aliens and a very interesting new project. Blomkamp has set up Oats Studios to produce a series of "experimental" short films that'll get released through Steam. The shorts don't seem to be "experimental" in an art film way; it’s more that they’re a way of testing audience reaction — if people like the shorts, they might then get worked into feature films. That's a smart approach from Blomkamp. His most successful film to date started life as a well-received short. It sounds like he's looking to replicate that with whatever Oats Studios puts out. There's no release date yet for whatever comes first, but it’s supposed to arrive soon.
Sofia Coppola just picked up Best Director at Cannes for The Beguiled, but it turns out she has a second project coming out this summer: a recording of La Traviata, an opera she directed last year. While it's certainly louder and grander than the typical Coppola piece, the sets and sensibilities all seem to have stayed in place. It comes out in the UK on July 9th.
This looks a little cheesy, but I'm super down with its premise: Kate Winslet and Idris Elba stranded on a mountain, with no one else around, trying to survive. It comes out October 20th.
Oliver Stone, the director behind the hit film Snowden, sat down with Vladimir Putin to ask him about the 2016 election, Russia's view of the US, and Trump, in what's sure to be a fascinating interview series. That said, it's a wide-open question whether Stone is able to grill Putin, or if he'll fall for the notoriously manipulative leader's spin. The four-part series debuts on Showtime June 12th.
Yeah, so officially no one believed Steven Soderbergh would actually retire from moviemaking. And we should all be glad to be so right, because Logan Lucky looks like the kind of movie only Soderbergh could bring us: irreverent, serious, weird, normal, and just generally great. It comes out August 18th.
Hey, it's been all of 30 seconds since we heard from the Duplass Brothers, so here's a teaser for their latest project: Room 104, which appears to be a wild and kind of trippy look at the many, many things that occur in a single motel room. I love the concept. It starts July 28th.
Apparently Amazon really likes the Fitzgeralds. It already has a series called Z that tracks the life of Zelda Fitzgerald, and now it's adapting her husband's final novel into yet another series. The Last Tycoon is about early Hollywood and the spectacle it strived to produce. It looks like a weird mix of salacious and corny, but maybe that's fitting. It hits Amazon on July 28th.
In lieu of a description, I'll just leave you with this quote from The Deuce (and The Wire) creator David Simon: “18 years at HBO, and I think I finally made something my mom can't watch.” It starts September 10th.
Science fiction is a genre that’s uniquely suited for making the internal into the external. Authors can take an intangible issue, whether it’s a relationship problem, a philosophical belief, or a scientific quandary, and make it material. John Kessel’s new novel The Moon and the Other does just that, playing out a complex, but relevant story about politics, gender identity, and social conflict through a series of characters living on Earth’s inhabited Moon. A wonderful, complicated, and beautiful novel, it asks what responsibilities people have to the societies they inhabit.
Set in 2149, The Moon and the Other takes a look at a lunar society full of social experiments. Some 3.2 million people inhabit a network of 27 distinct colonies, each with its own system of government and society. One such colony is The Society of Cousins, a matriarchal settlement in which men are encouraged to pursue a range of personal pursuits and sexual freedom, but are barred from voting or holding political office, unless they’re part of the work force.
The Society is a manifestation of political theory and philosophy. While its inhabitants enjoy a better standard of living than their lunar counterparts, resentment bubbles under the surface. Not everyone agrees with the aims of the Society, and agents, internal and external, are pushing for changes to how things run. The Organization of Lunar States sends out an investigative team to ostensibly examine human rights violations within the Society. But the team is actually a cover to see if the Society has developed weapons that specifically target men. While there, the investigators discover something much bigger: the IQSA, a device that can replicate any scanned object, even a person.
The story follows four characters caught in this complicated web of intrigue. There’s Erno, a former Society citizen — exiled after accidentally causing the death of his mother — who returns as a member of the investigative team; Amestris, an ambitious businesswoman and daughter of a wealthy industrialist from another colony called Persepolis, who marries Erno; Mira, a protest artist grappling with the death of her brother; and Casey, an athlete in the Society who is trying to gain parental rights for his son and push against the communities’ social norms.
Kessel weaves a believable world, blending hard science fiction and social commentary without losing the human element. The characters benefit from their added depth, giving weight to the questions they embody: what is the relationship between a person and the society that they’re a part of? And what obligation does an individual have to their political ideals?
But what has stuck with me is how the book turns philosophical ideas into livable space. The Moon and the Other uses the various colonies as manifestations of various political theories. The Society of Cousins is one such example, exploring how a matriarchal society would practically operate. Men in this colony are afforded the freedom to live out their desired occupations, but it’s women who are granted political authority and leadership roles. If men want to vote, they’re required to take on menial work. Persepolis is a polar opposite: everyone is completely equal in this libertarian-style society, but succeeding is difficult, with debtors frozen when they can’t get by. Kessel’s elegant writing and world building makes each of these colonies completely believable as worlds and societies — from the physical architecture of the settlements to the fine details of their systems of governance.
The novel suggest that the people who make up these systems undermine how effectively they’re realized. Throughout the novel, we see characters working to uphold or push their own agendas, only to have their own weaknesses undermine the entire system. Mira aspires to enact change as a Banksy-style protest artist, but she’s held back with guilt that her brother died on her watch. Carey’s mother invented the IQSA, but did so to resurrect her son when he died in an accident.
And so The Moon and the Other is a story about change — personal and societal — and the invisible forces that prevent and empower it. What’s special, though, is how it makes those forces feel so immediate — like you could reach out and grab them.
Photography by Andrew Liptak / The Verge

It’s been an eventful two years since Neill Blomkamp’s last film, Chappie, hit theaters. He spent part of that time working to develop a fifth installment of the Alien franchise, only to have it overtaken by Ridley Scott’s Alien: Covenant. At the same time, he directed an installment of BMW’s The Hire series, starring Clive Owen, and signed on to help write and direct an adaptation of Thomas Sweterlitsch’s upcoming novel The Gone World.
But what’s more exciting is Blomkamp’s next project, something that he’s been teasing on Twitter and Instagram for months now. Oats Studios is his attempt to create a new outlet for some of his ideas, putting together a series of short films that  be released online for free, in an attempt to see if one or more  gain some traction online. The hope is that the studio can be used to experiment with ideas that can later be scaled up into feature films, much like his short Alive in Joburg was turned into District 9. It’s not entirely clear when the short films  be available to stream, but Blomkamp says that it  be soon.
The Verge recently spoke with Blomkamp by phone about how Oats Studios came to be, his take on the state of the film industry, and what really happened to his Alien sequel.
The below interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
I really like what you’ve been posting to Twitter and YouTube, and I’m interested in seeing what you have coming up with Oats Studios, and where you're going with it.
I’ve been building it for about two years. I have met pretty talented people that we've slowly assembled, so it’s been happening for a long time. At the end of making Chappie, I wanted to try to figure out a different method for making films and expressing myself. I felt that if I could sell smaller pieces directly to the audience, the sale of those small experimental pieces would keep this machine alive so that it became an ecosystem that was self-sufficient. And I could, at any point, pick one of the pieces that I made that felt like it resonated with the audience, and turn it into a feature film.
In the process of creating all of these ideas, a) it would be really creative, and b) it would allow me to interact with the audience directly, in a way that Hollywood doesn't really do.
So after thinking about it for a while, I came up with the idea. I needed a place that I could sell short films, and it felt like iTunes or any of the obvious outlets were massively lacking in any other avenues besides the films themselves. In other words: they don't give users the ability to look at all of the behind the scenes artwork in any real way. The more I thought about that, the more it became, “What if the users had access to all of the 3D files that we used for the visual effects?” If we just gave that away with any one-time purchase and you could render stuff yourself? Or what if we just give away all of the raw footage of one of the pieces, and anyone in the audience could they recut the the entire thing themselves? Stems from all of the music, or voiceovers from the actors; I just wanted to open it up and let people remix it.
After realizing that iTunes and stuff wasn't the right avenue for that, I started thinking about a game platform like Steam. I felt like Valve is a really awesome company and I've always had a massive level of respect for Valve. So we started moving in the direction of putting stuff on Steam, and that’s the road that we went down for two years.
Your background is in short films, like the one that inspired District 9. You  released your concept artwork for Alien 5 online. Would you say that those two things helped inspire Oats Studios?
Not exactly. I would go the other way around. Naturally, I like to experiment and play [with] lots of different ideas, and then hone in on one. I've always been like that, and I think any industry — not only the film industry — creates these patterns and traditions as it becomes efficient. While it does that, if you go a decade, or two decades, or a century down the line, it would establish ways that things are done.
Typically, directors in Hollywood work for one or two, or sometimes three years on a single film, while they're developing one or two other screenplays. By the time they're at the end of their career, they’ve experimented with maybe ten films. I'm fine with that — I want to do big films — but if you think of a painter or a sculptor, they're going to have three or four hundred incomplete oil paintings or half-done sculptures lying around in their house. I just want to experiment more. I just want to try to find a structure that allows me to do that. It's more a case of just trying to be creative.
Sort of like how a writer has a lot of rough drafts lying around, and seeing which one works the best to develop a bit more.
That's right, except in a slightly less clinical approach. There could be situations where I have one piece that really resonates with me, and it's maybe not as popular with the online audience. It's a case of just putting out ideas and then playing around and trying to be as creative as possible. I'm trying to build a small studio that from beginning, middle, and end, all aspects of film production, from costume, to visual effects, to editing, to casting, to legal stuff with all the actors, every single element happens under one roof, and it’s a playground for creativity.
Is the intent is to come up with these ideas, develop them thoroughly, and then release them as polished short films? Or are you thinking just “this is a cool idea; let’s film it and toss it out there?”
There’s differing levels of completeness to the scale. When we put stuff online, we have three bigger pieces that are around 20 minutes each that are of very high production value. Then we have a host of other crazy pieces that are smaller, but if the online community understands what I'm trying to do and gets behind it, you don't need to finish all of them to the same degree.
You can release stuff that is pre-vis level, you could really release looser stuff, like an  incomplete edit, along with high-level production pieces at the same time. At the moment, everything is done at a pretty high production level.
You mention you want to have a back-and-forth with your audience. Do you see yourself taking their advice and adjusting the projects?
The way that I think of it is that there's many levels that are operating with this project. The most simple version is with a relatively complete film, maybe three hundred people see it and a pattern emerges: A certain thing doesn't make sense, or characters do something that the audience doesn’t understand. Then you probably have an issue. It's like a human pattern recognition machine.
I think it's really dangerous for directors to start listening to individual notes: “I think you should cut out of that shot at X place,” or they start dictating the artistry of how the piece looks. I’m not interested in that at all.
I'm interested in [feedback] just to see if there’s some major error that we are making. The part that I'm more interested in is this upload / download interaction with the audience, where if there's anybody out there — any young budding screenwriter or concept artist, or anything — and they're like “For [the invasion film] Rakka, I have a really interesting idea for what can happen to this character. Here's my idea.”
We're trying to figure out how to deal with that, if there is some low-level revenue sharing with the user, or if it's a credit. I came up with the first piece and I'm building the studio and the world around it, but if this particular community member’s ideas really fit in with what I'm thinking and take me in a direction that I didn't think of, they can really contribute.
I saw a couple posts on Instagram of a green alien, which I'm assuming is from Rakka. Can you tell me a little bit about the film?
Pretty much every feature film that I've done is not a straight piece of filmmaking. District 9 is entirely metaphor, allegory, and partially satire. Elysium is satirical, and Chappie is completely mental. It fits into its own genre.
When I was in film school and when I was younger, my driving force was to be a dead-serious filmmaker. Films like Alien were what made me want to get into the industry. The Rakka piece is starting to move in the direction where I feel creatively, on bigger pieces, very interested in going down the road of dead-serious filmmaking. At the same time, I've got a couple of other pieces that basically have a weird, messed-up Monty Python feel, and some are indescribable comedy camp.
You mention that you're looking into serious storytelling with some of these projects. Are you going to incorporate the level of political commentary that’s in your previous films?
Absolutely, because it's in my genetic makeup that I'm just drawn to that. I think that's the reason I'm still really drawn into Elysium. [But] I think that filmmaking is about much more than that. There are still certain ideas that absolutely fit into that category, and there are certain ideas that I have in other categories that are completely apolitical. But each one of them has a deeper reason for existence.
District 9 existed because it was an allegory directly connected to apartheid. And just for argument's sake, look at something like Alien. Alien exist as an Freudian exploration into this psycho-sexual nightmare, and playing on those elements inside the human mind.
As long as there's a deeper core that you're striving for with each piece, I am really game — and as long as it's in this horror / science fiction / fantasy realm, then I’m there. I think Oats over the last two years has probably made me feel more interested in turning to some of those other categories. So the answer is yes, as well as others things.
How are you looking to build a community?  people go to a forum on your studio's website, or are you looking to YouTube comments, or a combination of both?
We've been trying to figure this out for a year. I think the best way to do it may be a forum on our site, where we  hopefully have as much user interaction as possible. The secondary place would be YouTube and comments. I want to make us available as possible, whether that's our email addresses or through the forums. I think a big part of this is going to be an evolution where you learn what works and what doesn’t work.
Tell me about the studio. Is there a physical location? How many people are working on this?
In terms of more permanent people that are in the building, I think we got about 35 people at the moment. They range from post production, to the art department of production designers, to visual effects. We have our own props building department.
Can you tell me a little bit about the props department you put together? The Rakka alien I saw looks amazing.
That's entirely CGI.
Oh, wow!
There are a shitload of practical effects. There's a really awesome effect artist here in Vancouver, and he basically headed up our practical division where we build all of the props for the pieces we’ve filmed so far. He gave us a list of all the stuff we need, and he turned the back of the studio into this awesome workshop. We have this vacuum evacuated room for silicon molding and fumes, and then we've got lathes, milling machines, 3D printers, and a whole space for sculpting. We just made a shitload of stuff.
Is this a place where you guys just go out in the workshop and say “let's just build some shit,” and just see what comes out of that?
Yes, totally. If any part of this works and it becomes self-sufficient, then that's a huge part of what I want to do: refine it even further. For exactly that reason, many of the pieces that we're working on are big enough that they require this feature film level approach to them, and I want to make sure that playing around in the sandbox never goes away.
Does that extend to writing? If you, or employees, are looking to break down an idea into a screenplay?
That’s another thing that I want to do. In the beginning, I wrote everything. There’s a writer named Thomas Sweterlitsch, who wrote this amazing science fiction story that I am adapting for Fox called The Gone World. Tom came up to Vancouver for that movie, and being here and hanging out with him, it evolved quickly to the point where I started sending him either ideas or finished screenplays. I would be like, “Can you make this screenplay better,” or if it was just a treatment or an early idea, “Let's do the screenplay together.” He ended up contributing to everything we worked on here. I  worked with Terri [Tatchell, Blomkamp’s wife] on one of the pieces.
What is the status of The Gone World? I remember reading about it, but hadn't heard if it had entered production.
I think I did four drafts on that, and Tom is currently working on a screenplay. That is an amazing film, and it appears as though Fox really wants to make it. It’s amazing, so I hope we end up making it.
That’s where the thing with Oats is interesting. It's this place where you can go from making massive films like The Gone World, which are traditional in the sense that they are released to theaters. But I wanted the other 50 percent of my life to be a creative sandbox, and see how those two things interact with one another.
What about your previous films? Are you interested in using this as a workshop for tie-ins to District 9, Elysium, or Chappie?
Probably not, no. In order to do that you would have to interact with the studios that own those films. The whole point here is to just be autonomous and just do whatever we want.
With District 9, I plan on making another film in that world. To go back and work with WETA, and make the film would be cool, but anything that preexists like that may not be the best fit for whatever we're trying here.
You've been asked about this a lot, but I’m guessing that your Alien concept is completely done, right?
I think it's totally dead, yes. That would be an accurate assumption at this point.
It’s sad. I spent a long time working on that, and I feel like it was really pretty awesome. But politically, the way it’s gone now, and the way that it all is — it’s just not going to live.
As in studio politics?
Yeah. Ridley [Scott] was one of my idols growing up. He's so talented and he's made this film that really set me off in a direction. I want to just be as respectful and not go stamping around in this world that he created. I think that if the circumstances were different, and I didn't feel like I was getting too close to something that he obviously feels a massive personal connection to, that things that may have played out differently. But I did want to be as respectful as possible.
Have you seen Alien: Covenant?
No, I haven’t seen it yet. But I definitely want to check it out.




If you were at a Disney park over the Memorial Day weekend, the crushing lines were likely even more intense than expected. On one coast, the company’s Animal Kingdom park officially opened Pandora, its immersive land inspired by James Cameron’s Avatar, while in California the public began riding the new attraction Guardians of the Galaxy: Mission Breakout! It was a one-two punch that underscored the company’s brand-focused strategy under the stewardship of CEO Bob Iger: our theme parks are movies, and movies are our theme parks.
But Disney isn’t alone in this strategy. Parks have become an increasingly important investment focus for Hollywood studios — particularly as blockbuster season has become dominated by franchises and expanded universe films. With US movie attendance stagnating, the future is more uncertain than ever, and bringing beloved intellectual properties like Marvel into the physical realm adds a new revenue stream to the portfolio. But the Guardians ride and Pandora represent two drastically different approaches: one is a short-term fix, designed to surf the wave of popularity from James Gunn’s films. The other points toward a new weapon in Hollywood’s fight for mindshare, a type of experience that won’t just drive interest in flagship properties, but one that could become a full-fledged storytelling medium unto itself.
Theme parks riffing on existing intellectual property is certainly nothing new. Disney’s been doing it for decades, and over the years visitors to Universal’s parks have been able to go on rides based on everything from Jurassic Park to Twister. But the landscape shifted in 2010, when the Universal Orlando Resort opened The Wizarding World of Harry Potter. Instead of going for standalone rides, Wizarding World was about recreating the experience of being in J.K. Rowling’s fictional universe. It had rides and rollercoasters, but for many guests the thrill was just walking the recreated streets of Hogsmeade, wand in one hand, Butterbeer in another. Universal has long boasted that its parks let you “ride the movies,” but the selling point for the Wizarding World could be that it allows you to live in the movies.
As Wizarding World expanded its Orlando footprint and spread to California and Japan, the opportunity was obvious: the chance to visit the fictional world of the franchise didn’t just bring visitors into the park. It inspired them to buy in-world merchandise, to purchase costuming and props, and perhaps most importantly — to reengage with the source material itself. It was a new part of the Harry Potter ecosystem that encouraged and rewarded further engagement with every other part: a rising theme park tide that lifted all boats.
Avatar may not have the same cultural footprint that Harry Potter enjoys, but producer Jon Landau sees Disney’s Pandora park as a step toward that same grand concept as Wizarding World. “We're going to be building out our world in a whole series of publishing programs, including Dark Horse comics. We're doing 4 novels. And there's an Ubisoft game with [developer] Massive,” he tells me during a Pandora press event. “It’s all about expanding the story world of Pandora. What audiences can get here [in the park] is they can explore and discover.”
Bolstering that strategy is the way Pandora plays into the franchise’s larger lore. The park’s “Valley of Mo’ara” is set decades after Cameron’s fourth and final Avatar sequel, currently scheduled to hit theaters in 2025. The time frame sleight of hand lets the park exist without interfering with anything that may appear in the upcoming sequels — audiences won’t even see Avatar 2 for three more years — but more importantly, it creates a scenario where the park itself can freely become part of the franchise’s larger mythology. Landau says that kind of creative cross-collaboration has already begun, with ideas from the team at Walt Disney Imagineering making it into the upcoming sequels, and ideas tied to the upcoming films present in the park on opening day.
“Pandora is a large place,” he says. “We see stories that can take place in Mo'ara Valley, we see stories that can take place out in those waters that you saw [in Flight of Passage] with the crashing waves. The Shaman of Songs, that you'll see in the Na'vi River Journey — I can see her coming up in some of our publishing programs.”
Anecdotally, Pandora seems to have the desired effect; after touring the world my colleague James Bareham and I both commented that the first thing we wanted to do was watch the original movie again. But the trick for Disney is that it doesn’t actually own Avatar. Much like Universal did with Warner Bros. for Harry Potter, it licensed the theme park rights to the film, which was released by 20th Century Fox. The latter studio is moving forward with its own theme park ambitions internationally. 20th Century Fox World — featuring attractions based on Planet of the Apes, Alien vs. Predator, and Titanic, among others — is scheduled to open in Malaysia, Dubai, and South Korea over the coming years.
Disney was no doubt ing to make the Avatar deal because its parks are a vastly bigger business than its film division. In the 2016 fiscal year, Disney’s parks and resorts unit brought in $16.97 billion, dwarfing the $9.4 billion from the studio entertainment division. But as grand as Pandora may be, Disney is reserving its biggest bets for its own properties.
Toy Story Land, a theme park expansion based on the Pixar series,  be coming to Florida and Shanghai in addition to its current Paris and Hong Kong locations, but all eyes are truly on the company’s theme park plans for Star Wars. That 14-acre expansion, scheduled to open in both Orlando and Anaheim, California, looks to be the company’s most ambitious effort in immersive entertainment yet. According to a recent discussion at Star Wars Celebration, guests  be able to pilot the Millennium Falcon, and have their performance impact the way they’re treated by characters they run into at different locations throughout the greater venue. It sounds like a mini-Westworld, set a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, and if the success of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter is any indication — attendance at Universal Studios Hollywood grew nearly 14 percent after it opened in California last year — the upside is staggering.
Strategically, it couldn’t come at a more important time for movie studios — and their corporate parents. The theatrical distribution business is uncertain, with the time movies get to play exclusively in theaters potentially collapsing in favor of earlier at-home viewing, and the Blu-ray and DVD business continues to dwindle. With so much invested in ongoing, interconnected cinematic worlds, it’s not only logical to look for every possible way to monetize them; it’s essential. The issue becomes that immersive parks like Pandora and Wizarding World are very specific kinds of beasts, conceptually based upon visiting exotic worlds and universes, and not every property is suited to the approach.
The perfect example may be Guardians of the Galaxy: Mission Breakout! Disney’s new ride is essentially a reskinned version of the Twilight Zone: Tower of Terror attraction that used to dominate the skyline at the California Adventure theme park, and as an aggressive drop ride, it’s quite a bit of fun. The premise is that The Guardians of the Galaxy have been captured by The Collector (Benicio Del Toro) and put on public display. As guests filter into the attraction, they see various props and costumes from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, presented as parts of his collection, before learning that Rocket Raccoon has found a way to stage a massive jailbreak, with the help of those riding the attraction.
There’s a forced, awkward mechanic that involves everyone raising their hands in unison to get Rocket the security clearance he needs, but from there the music kicks in and the ride gets going. The gantry lift aggressively moves up and down, revealing brief cut scenes with Chris Pratt, Dave Bautista, and the rest of the cast, in between perilous free-falls. The ride has six different variations, each set to their own song — I got Pat Benatar’s “Hit Me With Your Best Shot” all three times I rode last week — but ultimately there’s not really any story or larger immersive aspect to Mission Breakout! It’s a roller coaster, executed with raucous, rock n’ roll swagger, but that’s all there is to it.
Coming on the heels of our visit to Pandora, it was shocking how noticeable the difference between an immersive theme park experience and a traditional park ride became. It started the moment I stepped off Mission Breakout! and headed to the gift shop. I was expecting trinkets and souvenirs from The Collector’s personal gift shop; instead, I was surrounded by a bunch of T-shirts and merchandise from The Avengers and every other Marvel character I could think of. Essentially, I was dropped back into my own cynical, commercial reality — and after having just tried the immersive alternative in Orlando, it made the idea of a standalone ride in Anaheim seem forgettable.
The shift provides a particularly interesting challenge for Disney. As reported by Variety, Disney Parks chairman Bob Chapek promised that more Marvel-inspired attractions  be coming to its parks, and with the Marvel Cinematic Universe’s continued dominance the company would no doubt like to do it sooner rather than later. But Marvel’s world seems almost antithetical to the larger immersive strategy that’s worked so well for Harry Potter, and has Star Wars fans salivating. The MCU continuity takes place in a mirror version of our own world, and there’s really no overarching place that an immersive “Marvel World” could logically be set in. A park dedicated to The Avengers would amount to simply recreating New York City — about as alluring as a studio backlot tour. It may mean that Marvel’s presence in the company’s parks remain simpler, standalone experiences — but that’s a far cry from the kind of overlapping, interconnected creative world that Landau envisions for the Pandora park, or that the team behind Star Wars land have been hyping.
It  raises the question of how much influence theme parks may end up having on the film business itself. As far as movie audiences are concerned right now, the world of Avatar might as well not exist. The original film came out eight years ago, and we’ll see countless more Marvel, Star Wars, DC, and even Universal monster movies before we see another Na’vi on the big screen. But that’s what makes Pandora such an intriguing experiment: it has the potential to jump-start interest in a franchise that has otherwise been sitting dormant. Should that prove successful, it creates a scenario where a theme park  have been responsible for driving interest in a new movie rather than the other way around. In that world, immersive theme parks — and the narratives that can be told within them — can be used to launch new story ideas and characters, just as easily as a comic or tie-in novel.
Movies may not even be at the top of the food chain in that scenario. But at least they’ll still be alive and breathing, one part of the self-contained entertainment ecosystems that major franchises seem determined to become.
Today, SpaceX is set to launch another one of its Falcon 9 rockets from Florida, sending cargo and supplies to the International Space Station for NASA. It’s an otherwise routine launch that  include one of SpaceX’s signature rocket landing attempts afterward. But it wouldn’t be a SpaceX mission if the company didn’t try something completely new: this launch  be the first time that SpaceX reuses one of its Dragon cargo capsules — one that’s already flown to the station and then landed back on Earth.
The Dragon that’s going up on this flight was the same one used for SpaceX’s fourth cargo resupply mission to the station in September 2014. After a nearly month-long stay at the ISS, the Dragon landed with the help of parachutes in the Pacific Ocean. SpaceX then inspected the vehicle and refurbished it to make sure it was ready to fly again. A few components have been swapped out, but the overall structure and the thrusters from the original vehicle are the same, according to Hans Koenigsmann, vice president of flight reliability at SpaceX. One notable upgrade, however, was the addition of a new heat shield, plus the replacement of few outside components that came in contact with sea water when the Dragon splashed down in the ocean.
If all goes well, Dragon  join a small group of vehicles that have orbited the Earth multiple times — the most notable of which was NASA’s Space Shuttle. And it  be the first time a private company has sent a vehicle into orbit a second time. Eventually, SpaceX expects to re-fly most, if not all, of its Dragon cargo capsules. Such a move could likely result in substantial cost savings. The company hopes that by reusing the cargo vehicles, it can focus on making the next version of the Dragon, according to a Space News report from last year. That upgraded spacecraft  soon carry people to the International Space Station.
SpaceX seems to be making the shift into reusing its flight hardware more frequently now. The company has successfully landed 10 of its Falcon 9 rockets since 2015, and one of these used boosters flew again for the first time in March — an important proof-of-concept in SpaceX’s pursuit of reusability. Now the company plans to use another previously flown booster during its next satellite mission in a couple of weeks, and CEO Elon Musk said that up to six used Falcon 9s could fly by the end of the year. Meanwhile, the company is  making moves to save the rocket fairings (the nose cones) that surround the payloads at the top of the rocket, which easily cost millions of dollars. On that same historic March flight, SpaceX successfully landed parts of the nose cone via parachutes, the first step toward reusing them in the future.
On Saturday, SpaceX   try to land the Falcon 9 after launch, the company’s 15th landing attempt. This time the target is the company’s landing pad, called Landing Zone 1, at Cape Canaveral, Florida. So far, SpaceX has attempted most of its landings on one of the company’s two autonomous drone ships in the ocean, but whenever the company has tried to land on land, it’s only seen success. All four of SpaceX’s previous landings at Landing Zone 1 have been perfect touchdowns.
But of course, the primary mission is not to land the rocket but to get nearly 6,000 pounds of supplies and science experiments to the ISS. Ironically, some of the most interesting experiments are riding up inside the Dragon’s unpressurized trunk, the expendable part of the spacecraft that provides support during launch and contains the vehicle’s solar panels. One such experiment is the NICER, an instrument that  eventually be mounted to the outside of the ISS to search for neutron stars. Another part of the trunk’s manifest includes the Roll Out Solar Array, or ROSA, a new type of solar panel technology that launches wound-up, and then rolls open in space. Meanwhile, fruit flies are headed up inside the Dragon to study how the heart responds to microgravity.
Whenever this flight does get off the ground, it’ll mark the 100th launch from NASA’s historic pad at LC-39A, which was used to launch the first astronauts to the Moon. The pad is now being leased by SpaceX to support flights of the Falcon 9 and the company’s future Falcon Heavy rocket. Saturday’s launch is currently slated for 5:07PM ET, and SpaceX has an instantaneous launch window this time — so it either has to launch right on schedule or move to another date. Originally, the launch was supposed to happen on Thursday at 5:55PM ET, but lightning in the Cape Canaveral area forced SpaceX to postpone the mission until Saturday. Weather isn’t looking too great for this weekend either. Right now, there’s a 60 percent chance that conditions  be favorable.
NASA’s coverage of the launch is set to begin at 4:30PM ET on Saturday, so check back then to watch the mission live.
Update June 1st, 5:35PM ET: This post was updated to include the scrub and new launch time.






Flipp is a Kickstarter project with a single goal: enable you to easily control your music. As the enthusiastic pitch video points out, there are plenty of smart home remotes that are packed with tons of features for controlling all sorts of things in your home — but sometimes, you just want a simple way to listen to music.
And things don’t get much simpler than Flipp. It’s a roughly palm-sized disc that does exactly four things: play / pause music, control volume, skip songs, and skip playlists. Each of those actions is tied to a specific motion based on which way you’re holding Flipp. Rotate it with the speckled white face up, and you control volume. Flipping (get it?) it over to the black side while rotating it signals the remote to skip through songs on a playlist. Press and rotate to switch between different playlists. And press the remote once toggle play / pause — no matter which side is up.
Flipp works by connecting to an included Flipp hub, which in turn connects to your speakers over Wi-Fi. It’s compatible with any Spotify Connect-powered speaker or a Sonos system, and you can configure multiple remotes to control different speakers or a group of speakers as you’d like. (You’ll still only need just the one hub.) The remote then connects to the hub over a 2.4GHz radio frequency, and is powered by a standard coin-cell battery that the company claims  last up to two years before needing to be replaced.
It’s admittedly a simple product from a functionality standpoint, but I really like the idea of Flipp. Sometimes, a single device that does one thing really well is all you need — assuming Flipp actually works as well as the video claims it does, anyway.
Flipp is the first product from a new Scandinavian company called Synt, a startup that’s dedicated to creating new connected device startups, like Flipp. That said, this is the first product from the group, and it’s  being crowdfunded. So the usual warnings do apply.
Synt is selling a Flipp set consisting of a single remote and hub for an early-bird price of $79, or $99 for later orders, with a planned November ship date.
Minnesota is grappling with 73 cases of measles right now — more cases than the entire country had last year. The outbreak is thanks to people who don’t vaccinate their children, according to the Minnesota Department of Health. These people wrongly believe a debunked theory that vaccination causes autism.
The Minnesota outbreak has exposed more than 8,000 people to the virus, mostly in schools and hospitals. “Many of the cases could have been prevented if people had gotten vaccinated," Kristen Ehresmann, director of the Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Prevention, and Control Division at Minnesota’s Department of Health told CNN. When fewer and fewer people are vaccinated, it puts everyone else at risk, too — especially those who aren’t vaccinated because they’re too young or sick.
Measles is a viral infection that causes high fever, a red rash, and, in more serious cases, blindness or brain inflammation. It’s highly contagious and can be spread through the air. Two doses of the MMR vaccine that protects against measles, mumps, and rubella is about 97 percent effective in getting rid of the disease, but that’s not much use if people aren’t being vaccinated. Measles was once declared eradicated from the United States, but it has since made a comeback. Last year alone, there were 70 measles cases in the country.
A National Institutes of Health study last year confirmed that growing fears of vaccination were partly to blame for the resurgence of measles. This is especially true among the region’s Somali community. In Minneapolis, fewer than half of Minnesota children of Somali descent have received the MMR shot because their parents believe it causes autism, according to NPR.
"It is a highly concentrated number of unvaccinated people," Michael Osterholm, director of the University of Minnesota's Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy, told NPR. "It is a potential kind of gas-and-match situation."

Tilt Brush is sort of like fancy MS Paint for virtual reality. It fosters creativity, allowing you to paint, smear, and dab beautiful (or in my case, sort of okay) works in a 3D space. Traditionally, artists use their hands to craft their VR art. But drones aren’t a bad option either.
On Twitter, Jaymis Loveday posted a video of himself navigating a drone to paint in the HTC Vive’s version of Tilt Brush. The video creates a mixed reality effect, wherein the physical drone appears to be painting beautiful swatches of color around midair.
IT FREAKING WORKED!@HTCVive Tracker on @DJIGlobal Mavic in @TiltBrush. Tracking is perfect!Drone = VR controller & Mixed Reality camera! pic.twitter.com/YlDrPNY5MJ
Loveday has played with drone paintings before with some pretty impressive results. This video, posted to Vimeo, has a higher quality demonstration than his tweet (though it would appear his painting skills have improved quite a bit).
The Tilt Brush community has created some truly terrific art you can find online, from re-creations of Iron Man and The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask to original work.
The seventh season of Game of Thrones (coming July 16th) was pushed back several months due to a production schedule that needed to revolve around winter, but the eighth season may be pushed back even further, for vaguer reasons.
In an interview with Entertainment Weekly, HBO programming chief Casey Bloys hinted that the eighth season (only six episodes long) might not air until 2019. Discussing why showrunners David Benioff and Dan Weiss aren’t going to be involved in any spinoff series in a major way, Bloys said, “By the time the final season airs, Dan and David  have been at this for 12 years.” Though Weiss and Benioff first met Martin in 2006, HBO didn’t order the pilot of Game of Thrones until November 2008, and production didn’t begin until October 2009. It’s not clear where Bloys is measuring from, but to me the math looks a little depressing.
The interviewer then asked, more explicitly, “So as of now, the final season could air in 2018 and / or in 2019 depending on their needs?” To which Bloys responded, “Yeah. They have to write the episodes and figure out the production schedule. We’ll have a better sense of that once they get further into the writing.” It’s pretty vague, but it certainly implies that HBO has given Benioff and Weiss permission to take their time.
Though a Westeros-free 2018 would obviously disappoint Game of Thrones fans who can no longer fathom a summer without the show (me, too!), it’s possible that it’s... a good thing. Bloys hinted that the network still hasn’t determined how many Game of Thrones spinoffs it’s going to make (there are five in the very early stages of development), or when they would air, but they aren’t concerned about moving quickly: “Making Game of Thrones as good as possible is the No. 1 goal, and then we’ll see about these scripts. You’re not going to see a situation where the next show in the Thrones universe launches off the back of this one.”
He frames this pacing as an act of deference to Game of Thrones, making sure it gets “the sendoff” it deserves. But pushing the final season back would  give HBO more time to get its ducks in a row there, avoiding having to rush something new to screen. As they learned the first time around, a fiercely devoted fan base is  an incredibly critical one.
There are obvious questions to ask about how George R.R. Martin’s still-unfinished A Song of Ice and Fire series plays into this decision as well. The showrunners have known the major story beats and the gist of the ending for years, and Martin has often made a point of saying that the show and the books are two separate works, meant to be enjoyed on their own merits — but would he really want HBO to get the first stab at presenting the most anxiously awaited conclusion of a fantasy series in recent memory?
Though many fans believed the penultimate, sixth book in the series Winds of Winter would be released before HBO got to air season 6, it didn’t happen. They then revised that estimate to a release date preceding season 7, but it’s obvious that’s not going to happen either, and Martin has confirmed it several times on his personal blog. But some fans have speculated that Martin is working on the sixth and seventh books simultaneously, so that the gap between their release dates might be significantly narrower than those between previous installments. (It’s been nearly six years since volume five, A Dance with Dragons.) Pushing season 8 to 2019 could allow at least one of the books come out before the show drops all its end-game bombshells. There’s absolutely no way to know, Martin hasn’t so much as hinted at it, but I’m just trying to offer you a small comfort here.
Anyway, you may be waiting until 2019 for the end of Game of Thrones. I’m sorry.
Nutella’s manufacturer Ferrero partnered with its advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather Italia to devise a plan to get people to buy more Nutella. Their idea? Have an algorithm design the packaging. The company provided the software with a database of patterns and colors that Ferrero felt fit with the hazelnut spread brand. It then created 7 million unique jars that were sold throughout Italy.
You can see some of the designs below. They look nice. I wouldn’t mind having them at home, although I don’t live in Italy, so that’s never going to happen. It was a limited project. Still, good job, software, you’ve got the mojo to make packaging for hazelnut spread. What a feat.
The new Wonder Woman film has most of what Wonder Woman fans would expect from a cinematic adaptation of her comics. There's Paradise Island, the distant utopia where women warriors live and fight together, sans men. There's the magic golden lasso which compels people to tell the truth. There are the magical bracelets that deflect bullets (and the occasional World War I shell, since the film is set in that era). Steve Trevor, brave airman in need of rescue? Yep. Etta Candy, jovial sidekick? She's there. Improbable CGI superfeats? Of course.
Fans of the classic comics may miss a few iconic bits of the Wonder Woman mythos, though. Wonder Woman has some funny repartee, falling in line with Marvel Cinematic Universe films: at one point, Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman archly explains to Steve Trevor (Chris Pine) that men are necessary for biological reproduction, but not for pleasure. But while there are jokes, the comics’ more whimsical elements have been shelved. There's no invisible plane. (At least not as far as audiences can tell.). And the Amazons in the film ride normal, everyday horses, rather than giant battle kangaroos.
Battle kangaroos haven't been part of the Wonder Woman mythos for some 65 years. But in the original 1940s comics, written by iam Marston and drawn with elegant stiffness by Harry G. Peter, kangas were one of the most visually distinctive — not to mention gloriously silly — aspects of life on Paradise Island. Amazons rode kangas in their Paradise Island military contests, and they even had special giant sky kangas that could take them to other planets.
Marston and Peter even had an origin issue for the giant kangaroos. In 1947, Wonder Woman #23 revealed that the kangaroos were brought to Paradise Island by cat-headed male aliens when Wonder Woman was a child. After some fighting, it turned out that the aliens were actually human-looking women. They joined the Amazons, and their giant kangaroos replaced the Amazons’ former mounts — giant bunnies. (Marston and Peter never got around to an origin issue for the bunnies.)
It's clear enough why Wonder Woman 2017 doesn't have giant kangas or bunnies: space-hopping kangaroos are silly. They're a fun concept for kids, but the movie is aimed at an older, more serious and sophisticated audience. Adults want a tormented Wonder Woman grieving for fallen comrades, not a cheerful Wonder Woman using her magic lasso to make dignified Amazon doctors stand on their heads. (The magic lasso was originally a lasso of command — much more broadly useful than the lasso of truth.)
The film's revamping of Wonder Woman's origin helps underline the difference in audience and tone. In the comic, Wonder Woman's mother crafts a child out of clay, and Aphrodite grants it life.
That's a child's story about how babies are made, the fantasy of an awkward parent who isn’t ready to get into the birds and the bees and the kangaroos. The film is mature enough to know better. In the movie version, the Amazon Hippolyta claims she crafted Diana — the future Wonder Woman — from clay, and Zeus animated her. But eventually, a character pointedly suggests that Hippolyta and Zeus made Diana the old-fashioned, biological way. Kids love kangaroos and don't know where babies come from. Wonder Woman 2017 is smarter than that.
But being smarter in this case feels a lot like being staid. The whimsical children’s version of Diana's birth is much more adventurous than the movie version. In Marston and Peter's comic, Aphrodite and Hippolyte make a child together, in an intentional vision of lesbian parthenogenesis. Marston lived in a polyamorous relationship with his wife, Elizabeth and their lover, Olive Byrne. He had children with both women. Elizabeth and Olive lived together for decades after Marston died; they were almost certainly bisexual. Marston was attuned to the possibility of unconventional family structures. He created a Wonder Woman origin story that cut out men, and refused the logic of patriarchy, whereby power travels from father to child. The film, in asserting that the facts of life must be the facts of life, and in attributing Wonder Woman's specialness to Zeus’ power as a god, dismisses Marston’s politics in order to tell a more conventional story. It’s supposedly more adult, but Marston might have considered it naïve.
Marston wasn't just a polyamorist, he was an academic psychologist and sexual theorist whose ideas seem daring even in 2017, and were more so in the 1940s. Marston's Emotions of Normal People (1928) argued, contra Freud, that children's erotic bonds with their mothers were normal and awesome, and if cultivated could save the world. He believed that everyone's erotic life was bound up (as it were) in dominance and submission, and he believed that female love leaders could use their erotic oomph to direct men and women alike to a utopia of peace, love, and bondage games.
The original Wonder Woman comics were whimsical and playful because they were for children — but  because they were sexual. Instead of massive CGI battles and explosions, the original Wonder Woman comics mostly featured stories where Wonder Woman and the villains alternated tying each other up and ordering each other around. Everyone got to top from the bottom and bottom from the top.
Marston very much intended for his playfulness to appeal to childish sensibilities and adult ones at the same time. He even wrote a comic about it: Sensation Comics #31, from 1944. In that story, Wonder Woman travels to Grown-Down Land, where children rule and force adults to take grown down medicine to make them children, too. Along the way, Wonder Woman is compelled to obey the dictatorial children, and she receives a sound spanking from toddlers while a mob of babies cheers. “It’s pretty tough being a grown down lady’s slave!” Wonder Woman exclaims. All in good fun, of course.
Sensation Comics #31 is pretty shocking even to the most jaded modern reader. Eroticized material involving toddlers, much less infants, remains taboo for most audiences. But Marston's comics aren’t out of line with other early children's literature. Peter Pan's innocence is so aggressive precisely because the sexual tension of a boy flying into a girl’s bedroom window is so overt. In her monograph Between Women, Sharon Marcus writes about Victorian doll stories for children, which often involved children spanking, beating, and tying up sentient animate dolls.
When people read such stories from a contemporary perspective, they tend to talk about repression and perversion. But Marston's goal was to encourage children not to be repressed. He wanted his readers (young and old) to embrace their imaginations, whether it took them to sky kangas or ritualized spankings. In Wonder Woman 2017, the Amazon games are all oriented toward battle preparation and the serious work of war. In Marston and Peter’s Paradise Island, the Amazons train for battle and athletic contests. But they  have a game where some Amazons dress up in deer skins while others hunt them, capture them, and pretend to eat them. Fighting and competing are fun, but so is goofy flirtation with your sisters. And if children got the message that lesbianism was acceptable, normal, and fun — well, Marston, Elizabeth, and Byrne would certainly approve.
Wonder Woman 2017 does occasionally channel the childish spirit of the original comics. Many superheroines on-screen, from Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow to Sarah Michelle Geller as Buffy, find their powers a burden and pine for normality. But Gal Gadot seems to genuinely enjoy her superfeats. In one scene, when she leaps across a ravine and grasps onto a ledge, she smiles gleefully, as if to say, "I am more awesome than I even knew!" Marston would approve; his Wonder Woman  really enjoyed her powers.
But in general, the more adult Wonder Woman is a more conventional superhero than Marston and Peter’s version. Gadot's Wonder Woman talks vaguely about the power of love, but mostly, her adventure involves beating the tar out of bad guys, and eventually slicing them apart with her sword — a phallic weapon added to her repertoire long after Marston died. Wonder Woman doesn’t lead Etta Candy and her sorority sisters to the stars to fight the evil Pluto. Instead, she and Steve recruit a pallid A-team of stock male mercenaries to fight, while Etta stays behind in London. Realism means that only Amazons and men have the adventures. Real women hang back at headquarters, and answer the phones.
Granted, few viewers would really want a fully Marston-derived Wonder Woman film, whatever that would look like. (Some sort of combination of Barbarella and Caged Heat?) Mainstream audience Wonder Woman fans, and moviegoers in general, want a heroine who overcomes personal tragedy, trades quips, and fights for rights — in sequences packed with lots of special effects.
I don't begrudge anyone their successful, badass Wonder Woman movie. But I think it's worth remembering that something is lost when you trade in the kangas for horses, and the whimsy for angst. Playfulness opens up possibilities for children of all ages. Marston and Peter were hopping about on distant planets decades ago. The new Wonder Woman, whatever its virtues, suggests we still haven't caught up with them.
Noah Berlatsky is the author of Wonder Woman: Bondage and Feminism in the Marston/Peter Comics.
By now, most smartphone users have experienced some form of augmented reality on their phones, whether they play Pokémon Go, use Snapchat, or actually remember the days of Yelp Monocle (from way back in 2009). But for the people who make the apps, AR isn’t quite as simple, particularly when the apps they’re building involve 3D or “volumetric” objects — stuff you can walk around and interact with through the screen of the phone.
Which is why Apple should start making that process a whole lot easier — especially if it is planning to release AR glasses in the future, ones that  need some sort of “killer app” or group of apps to justify their existence. Other companies, like Facebook, have now taken steps to let developers build AR experiences into their in-app cameras. You might not normally think of Facebook and Apple as direct competitors, but by doing this, Facebook has essentially set the stage for what is going to become an AR platform war on the phone. And Google already has its own AR platform, Tango. Amid the iOS, macOS, and potential Siri speaker reveals at WWDC next week, Apple needs to give due attention to AR.
Augmented reality refers to any kind of computer-generated image that appears on top of a view of the real world. For the sake of this argument, however, let’s focus on smartphones. There are 2D AR apps: ones that do a pretty basic job of slapping a flat, non-dynamic digital image over the stuff you’re seeing through your camera lens. Developers say this is the easiest kind of AR mobile app to build.
Then there are 3D AR apps, which usually require more advanced software development and image processing. Think: Snapchat’s filters like the digital flower crown hovering over your head as you move around in real time, or the virtual furniture you can examine and walk around in home-renovation app Houzz. These may seem like lightweight (or lighthearted) applications, but Snapchat’s lenses require a serious amount of engineering, and the Houzz 3D AR feature took months to build. Another home-renovation platform that offers 3D imaging, Modsy, does most of its image processing after you’ve taken smartphone photos, which can take anywhere from five minutes to several hours. Afterward, it sends the rendered 3D images back to you.
There’s another way to experience “true 3D” AR apps on a smartphone, and it’s a combo hardware-and-software solution. Google’s augmented reality computing platform, Tango, runs on smartphones that have a specific set of camera, infrared, and depth sensors. But right now there’s exactly one Tango phone model on the market. And some of the Tango apps are slow and low resolution.
Since we’re not expecting any sort of hardware update to the iPhone lineup for the next four months at least — no new cameras or depth sensors that would enable 3D AR — that means any Apple advancements around AR in the near term  come from the software side. Some have speculated that Apple could announce “ARkit,” a kind of framework that would integrate parts of the existing camera with new software in a way that would allow developers to gather more information from the camera.
Given that Apple chief executive Tim Cook has spoken so enthusiastically about AR in recent months, saying it’s a “big idea, like the smartphone,” this kind of framework makes a lot of sense. Currently, Apple doesn’t offer a specific API for virtual reality or augmented reality. There’s something called SceneKit, a kind of 3D-rendering engine for games, but no API for real-time object tracking. One developer, who spoke on background because of a pending AR app launch, told me that the one thing he has been hoping for is the ability to “hook into” the iPhone’s camera sensors and directly access the hardware in a way that developers currently can’t.
Plus, if Apple really does plan to introduce AR glasses at some point in the future (something that has been rumored, but not confirmed), it  need a healthy ecosystem of app developers who know how to make or have already embraced augmented reality apps. Releasing a suite of developer tools for AR on the phone  presumably make it easier to move those apps over to future AR hardware products Apple could make.
The last major pair of AR glasses to hit the market was the ill-fated Google Glass. Google Glass was awkward, made people uncomfortable in public, and even spawned the term “Glassholes.” But all of that may have been forgiven had the actual experience of having contextual information put right in front of your eyes been awesome. In other words: AR glasses are going to need apps so good and so useful that they justify whatever social awkwardness wearing a computer on your face creates.
 Apple be able to get major app developers to build AR apps for glasses, if and when it gets into glasses? Of course. But there’s  the very real possibility that the breakout app or surprise app for AR glasses would come from a less-established developer, one who wouldn’t have the resources to invest in true 3D AR if it’s as technically complicated as it is now.
Apple has had a long-standing tradition of waiting to jump into a market because of the premise that it  do it — whatever it may be — better. But the company shouldn’t wait any longer to show the world that it’s serious about AR as a platform.

AT&T has a new deal for customers on the company’s cheaper, $60-a-month Unlimited Choice plan: DirecTV Now for an extra $10 a month.
It’s a deal that the company has previously offered to customers on the $90 Unlimited Plus plan, which offers HD streaming, 10GB of tethering, free HBO, and no speed cap — unlike the cheaper Unlimited Choice plan.
The new $10 deal for Unlimited Choice customers comes in the form of a $25-per-month video credit that starts after three billing cycles. When applied to the base-level $35-a-month DirecTV Now plan, that credit works out to the promised $10-per-month price point. Unlimited Plus customers can  apply that credit to a pricier plan or AT&T’s DirecTV or U-verse TV services instead, should they prefer more conventional TV options.
The base $35-a-month “Live a Little” plan offers over 60 channels, including AMC, FX, SyFy, USA, CNN, Fox, ABC, NBC, TNT, and more. That isn’t a bad deal for $10 extra, assuming you’re looking for an over-the-top TV service.
Correction: Unlimited Choice customers can only use the $25-per-month video credit on DirecTV Now. Only Unlimited Plus customers can use the credit for other AT&T TV services instead of DirecTV Now.
There’s a good chance you’ve never heard of Vivo, a China-focused smartphone company that is similar to Xiaomi or Oppo. But unlike those other two companies, chances are that, unless you live in China (or more recently, India), you’ve probably never encountered a Vivo device, or even seen the company’s name before.
While Vivo may not have that much of a presence in European or American markets, the company has been still been building up a serious following when it comes to overall sales — it’s currently the fifth most popular smartphone manufacturer in the world, according to IDC, when it comes to devices shipped. And Vivo isn’t stopping there, either. The company just announced that it has signed a six-year deal with FIFA to be the exclusive smartphone sponsor of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups.
That’s a big deal, given how popular the World Cup is. According to FIFA, the World Cup is the world’s most watched sporting event. The 2014 World Cup reached 3.2 billion viewers, with over 1 billion viewers tuning in to the broadcast of the finals. And Vivo’s deal means that its brand  be introduced to millions of new potential customers around the world through billboards, stadium advertisements, and other tie-in opportunities. The company is  planning to release a special edition World Cup phone closer to the event that  offer a “one of a kind experience for Vivo consumers and football fans.”
This isn’t Vivo’s first foray into sports sponsorship: the company recently became the Indian Premier League’s official sponsor (succeeding Pepsi), something that IDC cites as an important contributing factor in Vivo’s growth in India. And since the World Cup takes place on a far larger international stage, it’s entirely possible the company could see similar success on a bigger scale through the new FIFA partnership. In other words: if you haven’t heard of Vivo yet, chances are that between now and the 2018 World Cup, you definitely .
Until recently, back issues of Omni Magazine were stored on the Internet Archive, for readers to page through at no cost. The collection of issues was taken down a couple of years ago, but it’s now back online on Amazon.com.
Earlier this week, Jerrick Media, owner of the Omni brand, announced that it was partnering with the Museum of Science Fiction to put the original issues of the magazine back online — this time in high-resolution. Instead of Archive.org, readers can find all 200 issues of the magazine on Amazon.
Each issue  cost $2.99 to buy, but it’s free for Kindle Unlimited subscribers. It’s a bit of a shame that the issues are no longer on the Internet Archive, but it is good to see that they’re back online once again. A portion of the proceeds from sales of the magazine  go to support the museum.
In addition to the magazine’s back issues, the company is  making episodes of a short-lived TV series based on the magazine available on Vimeo On Demand. Omni: The New Frontier originally aired in 1981 and was hosted by filmmaker and writer Peter Ustinov.
Omni Magazine was an enormously influential publication that ran from 1978 to 1995. Created by Penthouse publisher Bob Guccione and wife Kathy Keeton, it featured interviews with scientists such as Freeman Dyson, art from the likes of H.R. Giger and Chris Foss, and original fiction from established science fiction authors such as Isaac Asimov and newcomers like iam Gibson. The original magazine went digital in 1995, but shuttered in 1998. In 2013, Jerrick Media resurrected the magazine in an online format called Omni Reboot.

Airbnb hosts have already been found to discriminate against guests with "black-sounding" names, and now it sounds like host discrimination extends to guests with disabilities as well.
A study by researchers at Rutgers, highlighted in The New York Times today, found that guests who disclose a disability are less likely to be approved for a room and more likely to be outright rejected.
Guests who didn’t disclose a disability received “pre-approval” from an Airbnb host 74.5 percent of the time. But that number dipped sharply for guests who disclosed a disability. A person with dwarfism had a 60.9 percent approval rate, and a person who was blind had a 49.7 percent approval rate.
Those figures dipped further for guests with cerebral palsy and spinal cord injuries, falling to just 43.4 percent and 24.8 percent, respectively.
The researchers said that some of the gap between pre-approvals could be explained by hosts stopping to ask questions about what accommodations a guest  need.
But the researchers believe that doesn’t explain everything. If you look at outright rejections, there’s a clear difference: guests without disabilities were only rejected 16.8 percent of the time, while guests with the four disabilities the researchers studied were rejected anywhere from 20.1 percent of the time for guests with dwarfism, to 59.8 percent of the time for guests with spinal cord injuries.
The study was conducted over the course of six months, with more than 3,800 booking requests being made across the United States’ 48 contiguous states. All guests were given profile pictures depicting white men around 30 years old.
Halfway through the study, Airbnb introduced new anti-discrimination policies that guests were required to agree to. But the researchers say responses “did not vary significantly” even once the new policy was in place.
In a response first provided to the Times, Airbnb said that most bookings on its platform are made through the Instant Book feature, which doesn’t require host approval. It  said, “discrimination of any kind on the Airbnb platform, including on the basis of ability, is abhorrent, a violation of our anti-discrimination policy, and  result in permanent removal from our platform.”
It’s a strong comment, but it doesn’t mean much if Airbnb can’t actually spot discrimination and if the discrimination is rooted, in part, in how Airbnb’s platform is designed. Airbnb has begun releasing more detailed tools for hosts to let them better indicate the accessibility of their listings, which could help prospective guests browsing the site. Those tools have rolled out to half of all hosts so far and  expand to guests this summer.
Airbnb  says it’s already following some of the suggestions to resolve discrimination made by the authors of this study, including educating hosts on Americans with Disabilities Act standards.
This week’s Vergecast is recorded out of the studio. Nilay heads to the West Coast to reunite with Dieter, Lauren, and Casey at this year’s Code Conference. The gang discusses the speakers (in more than one way) at the event including Andy Rubin, Hillary Clinton, and Reed Hastings. They  chat a little about the news outside of the conference.
Back in New York, Paul reports on gadget week with his weekly segment “Let me hug your robot heart.”
There’s a whole lot more in between, so listen to get it all!
01:29 - The case for editing tweets
06:01 - The Essential Phone: a first look at the hardware
30:11 - Paul’s weekly segment “Let me hug your robot heart”
32:49 - Netflix CEO says net neutrality is “not our primary battle”
42:41 - Clinton says the Russians had to be “guided by Americans” in how they weaponized information
55:37 - Don’t buy the Chromebook Pro until Google fixes a critical bug
59:11 - Verizon says the Droid brand isn’t dead, but it sure looks like it
1:01:30 - Microsoft's new Skype redesign is a radical change that looks like Snapchat
1:04:55 - Samsung's Bixby voice assistant is reportedly still weeks away from US launch
1:07:11 - Apple’s “Siri speaker’”reportedly enters manufacturing as announcement nears
If you enjoyed this podcast, there’s kinda more you can listen to! There’s Ctrl-Walt-Delete with Walt Mossberg and Nilay Patel, which dives deep into tech. We have Verge Extras, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways. You might  want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts nowadays.
For some reason, Samsung is releasing a Pirates of The Caribbean-themed Galaxy S8. Spec-wise, the phone isn’t any different than the standard Galaxy S8, save for a fancy box, some wallpaper, and a case. But when Disney is trying to make a film with a $230 million budget a success... well, this is what you get.
The phone, which is currently on sale at JD.com, only comes in the 4GB of RAM + 64GB of storage version, and retails for $880. It  comes with a special phone ring holder.
Honestly, there’s no reason to buy this. But if you are a huge Johnny Depp fan (or, more likely, Johnny Depp himself) your dreams of a Pirates of the Caribbean-themed cellphone case and wallpaper can be fulfilled. Or you could just go to the flea market, buy a knockoff case, and wait until someone uploads the wallpaper to Reddit and save approximately $870.
Your call.
This past weekend Disney officially opened up Pandora: The World of Avatar. We’ve already taken a look at the rides, the landscape, and even some of the odd foodstuffs that can be found throughout the park — but Pandora is an immersive environment, and sometimes the best way to get a sense of what it’s like to visit is to just look at the glorious sights it has to show you.
Below, The Verge’s own Bryan Bishop and James Bareham take you on a guided photo tour of what it’s like to spend a day (and night) in Pandora.
Click images to enlarge.
James and I arrived just after 8AM at Disney’s Animal Kingdom park in Orlando. The first thing we noticed when we crossed the bridge into Pandora itself was this sign — a map of the “Valley of Mo’ara” that serves as the setting for the new land. Nearby, a massive plant known as a Flaska Reclinata spewed water and steam whenever visitors would touch its purple insides. Following the path further brought us past a community drum circle... and then those astounding floating mountains. —Bryan Bishop
THE FLOATING MOUNTAINS
Though I was decidedly underwhelmed by the plot when I first watched Avatar, I remember being utterly overwhelmed by the world that James Cameron had realized. For me, one of the most impressive scenes in the entire film was when Jake’s avatar joins the Na’vi in the vertiginous climb up the “Hallelujah Mountains,” the floating rocks that came to define the insanely otherworldly natural landscape of Pandora.
So I had some trepidation about the potential for disappointment in seeing the “real” floating rocks in Pandora: The World of Avatar for the first time. I even joked with Bryan that their initial impact may be more akin to the famous Stonehenge scene in the movie This is Spinal Tap, when the “enormous” iconic stone arch lowered onto the stage was actually smaller than the diminutive dancers gamely jigging around it.
Crossing the bridge and entering the park, I remember thinking that though the floating mountains were certainly big and definitely kind of impressive, maybe they were actually a letdown because they didn’t actually float. But as the day wore on, I found myself gazing up at the looming boulders and watching the vines sway in the breeze. I wondered just how in the hell the Walt Disney Imagineering team had made such an enormous structure hang in the air like... well, just like floating rocks. —James Bareham
PANDORA PLANT LIFE
After we finished gawking at those mountains, the next thing that caught our attention was the plant life. That massive pod near the entrance was just the beginning, because Pandora teems with vivid plants of all shapes and sizes. Purples, pinks, and blues contrasted sharply with the green foliage, while large, Alien-esque egg-shaped plants — known, unfortunately, as “vein pods” — littered the landscape
Tour guides from Alpha Centauri Expeditions, the company that is ostensibly behind the trips to Pandora, were nearby to educate us about various types of plant life, and fill us in on what had happened in the 100 years since the events chronicled in James Cameron’s 2009 film. Unfortunately, those tour guides were only part of the press event. Hopefully Disney sees fit to add them to the public experience as well. After all, the best way to believe you’re visiting an alien world is to talk to the people that live there. —Bryan Bishop
My last visit to Disney World was in 1997. Back then, I found Space Mountain and Epcot a little bit tired and sad, like the members of a once-great rock n roll band that knew their glory days were behind them. Riding Flight of Passage last week, on the other hand, was like watching U2 play their biggest, loudest, and most impressive gig ever — just for me. It was quite something.
I feel extremely fortunate to have ridden Flight of Passage four times — two of them back-to-back — all of them without having to spend much time waiting in line. (It’s a long line.) The ride is so intoxicating that by the fourth go I was both addicted and overwhelmed by the knowledge that no matter how many times I rode it, I would never recapture the insanely euphoric feeling I’d experienced “flying” over the staggeringly real world of Pandora that first time.
And for any of you who are thinking of filming your Flight of Passage to post on YouTube: don’t. Do yourself a favor and put your phone away. You’ll thank me afterward.
But before you embark on this epic — and admittedly rather short — adventure, you’ll take a leisurely stroll (or more likely a slow, step-by-step shuffle) along the meandering path that leads up to the Flight of Passage ride itself. The view from the queue is pretty impressive — which is a good thing because, in all likelihood, you’re going to be looking at it for quite some time.
Once you make your way past the rocks and fauna, you’ll eventually enter a cave system (complete with Na’vi paintings on the roughly hewn walls); a dark passageway (full of bioluminescent plant life); and on through huge, rusty doors that open into the “labs” belonging to the Pandora Conservation Initiative, current home of the Avatar program. The lab is basically the ultimate film set: lovingly art directed with rich detail, down to lab coats on chairs and mugs on desks. The avatar in the tank is the main attraction, but I  loved the little “aliens” blobbing about in smaller tanks. Shame you can’t buy one in the gift store.
THE LAB IS JUST A RESPITE; IT’S NOT THE END
Just when you think you’re finally about to enter the ride, you instead enter a cavernous hall with a life-sized Banshee and a pair of Na’vi stenciled on the wall. You  enter the long, dark, industrial passageways (that  most likely be filled with people) that you must navigate before you finally get to experience the ride.
Like so much of Pandora: World of Avatar, all of the richly detailed scenery that we passed by on our long walk(s) to the Flight of Passage chamber made us realize just how insane Star Wars land  be. Just look at that picture above and tell me you don’t see a Rebel bunker. —James Bareham
The entire premise of visiting Pandora is that guests are on a tourist expedition, which provides a convenient in-game rationale for doing silly tourist things — including buying tons of branded gear in gift shops. Pandora’s main merch option is a store called Windtraders, and as we exited Flight of Passage, the line led us straight to its doors.
The variety of merchandise was actually quite impressive. There were T-shirts and flip-flops, but there were  Na’vi tails, hair braid extensions, and miniature Banshee puppets that could sit on your shoulder. Guests looking to blow $100 could  purchase their own floating, twirling chunk of “unobtanium.” (Yes, I considered buying it. Don’t judge.) —Bryan Bishop
I should start here by admitting I made a massive mistake: I went on the Na’vi River Journey after riding Flight of Passage.
In retrospect, there was no way that this slow, serene, river cruise was going to live up to my expectations of what a ride through the bioluminescent nighttime jungle of Pandora would be like. And it didn’t.
Bryan’s view of the ride is a lot, er... fairer than mine. He makes a very good point about this being more of a traditional Disney ride than the cutting-edge 3D simulator that is Flight of Passage. Nevertheless, I found the Na’vi River Journey to be extremely disappointing: it seems small and claustrophobic, more like a ride through a cave with some fluorescent scenery (which it kind of is) than an epic exploratory journey through a deep, dark alien rain forest (which it most definitely is not).
Had I taken this ride before riding the Flight of Passage, I’m sure that my reaction would have been very different. I  feel that I am being slightly disingenuous about the obvious care and detail that has been put into the River Journey — particularly the animatronic Shaman of Songs which is creepily real. And I must  accept that I am hardly the target demographic. But having said all that, I still feel that the Na’vi River Journey could, and should, have been so much more. —James Bareham
The hidden creatures frolicking on the leaves are a nice touch.
After trying both rides, it was time to eat, so we headed over to the Satu'li Canteen. Like most of the structures on Pandora, it was built in the ruins of a building left over from RDA — the mining company that Giovanni Ribisi worked for in Avatar. Aside from the blueberry cheesecake, the menu was pretty straightforward: build-it-yourself bowls and bao buns stuffed with either vegetable curry or cheeseburger filling. (They tasted just like cheeseburgers.) While the food was by no means evocative of an alien world, the set decoration was impressive, giving everything the sense of being part of the world and narrative — including the cabinets in the room where dishes could be stacked.
Afterward, we headed to a drink stand nearby called Pongu Pongu (Na’vi for “party party,” we were told). That’s where we tried the Night Blossom, a sugary-sweet instant brain freeze beverage that was actually quite tasty. That’s  where we spotted a giant mech walker that looked like it was pulled straight from the movie. (James was annoyed we couldn’t climb inside — and rightfully so.) —Bryan Bishop
A smaller bridge nearby took us to a pond, where several small creatures floated. These weren’t animatronic animals; instead they just sat there by the waterline, looking sufficiently odd and Pandora-y. Judging from a sign nearby that warned of their reaction to arm movements, it seems like there  eventually be some sort of interactivity from these critters, but during our visit they were dormant. To get a glimpse of any other animal activity — or to see the Na’vi themselves, for that matter — guests  have to visit Flight of Passage or the Na’vi River Journey. —Bryan Bishop
After revisiting both Flight of Passage and Na’vi River Journey a few more times, we headed back to our hotel room for a break. When we returned to the park a few hours later, the sun had set and the entire landscape was transformed.
In the film, Pandora becomes a glowing, bioluminescent landscape at night, and with the power of black lights and I don’t want to know how much glow paint, the physical park does the same thing. The transformation is awe-inspiring; words simply don’t cut it. Even our pictures have a tough time conveying what it’s like to be surrounded by this kind of exotic world on all sides.
If Pandora by day delivers the sense of being on a different planet, Pandora at night made us feel as if we were on a truly alien world. We hadn’t seen anything like it before, and it’s one of the things I’m most excited about experiencing again when I return. —Bryan Bishop
All photography by James Bareham and Bryan Bishop / The Verge
I hate Slack. Not what it represents: unified, media-rich team communication across time and space. But how it's implemented: a slow, memory-hungry web app that hates my computer. , my boss banned novelty status emoji, so I'm still a little salty about that.
But I  admit that Slack has some really nice (non-customizable) keyboard shortcuts that make the whole experience slightly more bearable. A comprehensive list can be found on Slack's help site, but here are the three I use the most:
This is sort of like Spotlight for Slack, and I use it all day, every day. Hit the command, start typing into the search box that appears, and hit enter to jump to that conversation. You can jump to a DM with anybody on your team, or teleport to any channel, and you don't even usually have to type the full name — Slack's smart enough to bubble up people you're more likely to interact with, instead of the seventh Josh at your company who works in an entirely different department.
You can  do ⌘ + Shift + K to pull up the direct messages menu, which allows you to create new multi-person direct message conversations.
I don't like to typo in work chat, because it makes me look like a big ol' dummo. If I notice a typo in one of my messages, I can click the little "..." Show Message Actions button to edit it, of course, but did you know that you can press the up arrow in an empty message box to edit your most recent message?
I find this really intuitive, because you use the up arrow to cycle through your most recent commands in a typical command line terminal. I don't know if other people find it intuitive, but I do know that it's basically indispensable for anyone who hates typos.
This one's probably the easiest to discover, because when you hover over the "Mark as read" button in the blue unread message banner, it lets you know about the escape shortcut. One nice way to catch up on a Slack backlog is to using Alt + Shift + ↑ / ↓ to iterate through unread channels and DMs, and then hitting escape once you're sure you have the gist of the room.
There’s  a setting to automatically mark any room as read as soon as you visit it, if you prefer that method:
, let's not forget the nuclear option: Shift + Escape, which marks all messages read, in all channels, and is a great gift that I treasure in times of madness.
There are a bunch of Slack things that are so second nature now, or common enough UI paradigms, that I don't think of them as shortcuts anymore. Like tab to complete usernames, ":" to create an emoji, and the always-handy ⌘ + Q to save five hours on my laptop's battery life. There are  some things I'm trying to add to my workflow, like the Open All Unreads view (⌘ + Shift + A / Ctrl + Shift + A). I'm  a neophyte when it comes to the dozen or so bots that are available in my team's Slack, but I'm sure I'll familiarize myself eventually.
Let me know if you have any other favorite Slack moves that you've found helpful.
In the years after I graduated college, my primary tool for managing money was prayer. Pray that the $20 in my wallet would cover lunch through the week. Pray my friend waited a few days to cash the check I wrote him. Pray the dentist doesn’t find any cavities. My first newspaper job paid me $28,500, and while I never felt poor, an unexpected $500 expense would have more or less wiped me out.
I never learned to balance a checkbook — in my mind, the only relevant question was whether there was still money in my checking account — but I did employ a single piece of software: Microsoft Money, which was finally killed off in 2010. I remember being mesmerized by its chart of my anticipated cash flow, which showed my account rising and falling along with paychecks and bills. It was a basic tool, but it did its job: as best as I can recall, I only overdrafted my account once.
If you’re just learning to get your finances in order, or you’re ready to start giving them some more thought, you have a wealth of app options. You can get by with a single app for music, maps, notes, and calendars, but when it comes to managing your money, no one app  do. Your bank’s app  tell you how much money is in your account, but when it comes to getting a picture of your overall finances, or saving for a major purchase, or splitting the tab at a restaurant, you’re pretty much on your own.
The good news is that there are tools in your local app store to handle just about all of your everyday finance needs. The bad news is that there are hundreds to choose from. If you’re happy with your current setup, there’s no pressing need to change it. But if you’ve never examined your spending by category, or saved more than $100, there have never been easier ways to get started.
Here are our picks for the essential finance apps for planning your budget, tracking your spending, monitoring your credit, and paying your friends back. We  looked at apps that help to automate investing, but I’m not comfortable recommending one. Most people are better off maximizing their investments in a tax-advantaged retirement account, such as a 401(k) or an IRA. Until you’ve done that, you probably don’t need an investment app.
Plan your budget and track your spending
The first step toward getting your finances in order is getting some insight into your spending habits. You need to understand what you can afford to spend funds on, and then monitor your spending in real time. Your bank’s app  likely give you some basic insight into your checking account, but you have better options for getting a more holistic view.
If anything, you have too many options here — there are dozens of good-enough budgeting apps out there, but the best budgeting app  always be whatever works best for you. I’m going to suggest you consider two: Mint, a feature-packed personal-finance stalwart owned by Intuit; and Clarity Money, a beautifully designed up-and-comer that is currently available on iOS only. (An Android app is in development.)
Mint is easy to recommend for three reasons: one, it’s a trusted, venerable app in a space where lots of players come and go. Two, it has continually invested in new features since being acquired by Intuit in 2009, and it now offers tools for paying your bills, checking your credit score, and making progress toward your savings goals. And three, it’s ubiquitous — you can get it on Android, iOS, and the web.
Plug in credentials for your financial institutions and Mint  create a solid overview of your finances: recent transactions, upcoming bills, a breakdown of your monthly spending, and more. It’s all interspersed with ads for credit cards, life insurance, and other financial tools, which is how Mint makes money. Mint’s promotions can feel overly aggressive; its mobile app has an entire tab devoted to these “offers,” when most people I know won’t open a single new credit card all year.
Where Mint falls down is in its mobile design — which is a shame, since its original website won critical acclaim when it debuted in 2006. Mint’s tabs are redundant and confusing. (What is the difference between “updates” and “overview”?). It can feel as if the various financial widgets have been sprinkled throughout the app at random. You’ll get the hang of Mint eventually, and few apps can boast more or better free tools. It’s just a bit messy.
That’s why I’ve come to prefer Clarity Money, a venture-backed startup with an iOS app that launched in January. Clarity neatly organizes itself into four tabs: a home feed, an accounts page, a search tool, and your profile. The home feed is a marvel of charts, illustrations, and spending trackers, and each one is designed with genuine flair. (The top of the feed offers a charming daily quote about finances along with the local weather.) From the moment you open the app, you’ll see your current cash on hand and credit debt. As you scroll down, you’ll see your recent transactions and the amount of cash you have left to spend this month.
The spending tracker has a particularly clever design. Clarity  show you how much you spent on several categories by week, month, or year: Uber, Lyft, Starbucks, and Amazon are among the big expenses that Clarity can show you at a glance. I’m  taken with its colorful categorized spending charts: tap a section of the chart to examine the spending category and the chart  transform with new illustrations related to the category.
Clarity offers four other useful tools inside its home feed: a tool that monitors your subscriptions and offers to cancel them on your behalf; a tool to check your credit score; a tool to transfer money between accounts; and a tool to create an automated savings account based on rules that you set up. (“Save $5 every Monday for a rainy day,” for example.) The app is studded with useful cards telling you whether you’re using your credit responsibly or spending more than you should.
Clarity can’t do everything Mint can do — not yet, anyway. Mint is a better option for those who like to create budgets manually, or who want a little more hand-holding as they navigate through the month. (Immediately upon creating my Mint account, it began scolding me for being wildly over budget on several categories, even though I had never established a budget or told the app any of my goals.) But Clarity is calmer and friendlier — and once it’s available on Android, it might become my default recommendation for most people.
Alternative: PocketGuard, Spendee, Wally, Level, and Prosper Daily all have nice designs and accomplish many of the same basic functions that Mint and Clarity do.
Check your credit score
Credit Karma
Once you’ve got a handle on your spending, you’ll want to consider working toward making a major purchase: a car or a house, for example. A good credit score is essential for getting either, and  comes in handy when renting an apartment or even applying for jobs. Yet for too long, finding out your own score involved mailing separate requests to the major credit bureaus — and at your own expense. When they moved to the web, the bureaus began offering full credit reports for $1. They did this while noting, in much smaller print, that with your purchase you were simultaneously enrolling in expensive credit-monitoring services.
That’s why Credit Karma, which was founded in 2007, has been such a godsend. The company lets you check your credit score for free, making its money by suggesting credit cards that might be better for you based on your spending patterns. But you’re free to ignore those offers. In the meantime, you can check your credit whenever you like. If you’re struggling, the app  offer ideas on how you can improve your score. As of this year, it   offer to check government databases to see if you are owed cash, and even file your taxes. Few apps in this world are too good to be true, but Credit Karma consistently feels like one of them.
Alternative: Both Mint and Clarium allow you to monitor your credit score for free inside their apps.
Save money quickly and intelligently
Digit
Making a major purchase  requires saving money — something that Americans are generally terrible at. The majority say an unanticipated $500 expense would put them into debt. And banks have been essentially useless in helping them put any money away for a rainy day.
That’s why Digit’s arrival in 2015 was so welcome. Once you sign up, Digit creates a new savings account and manages it for you, socking away a few dollars at a time from your checking account. It learns when your bills are due and withdraws money only when it believes you wouldn’t miss the cash. The average user saves about 5 percent of their salary over the course of a year, not accounting for the savings that they later withdraw from their Digit account.
I used Digit to build a healthy emergency fund for myself, and I have recommended it enthusiastically ever since. Then this year the company instituted a $3 monthly fee, which it announced rather clumsily, and some Digit users began seeking a better alternative. I understand why: if you have no savings at all, paying $3 a month for the privilege of not spending money can feel counterproductive. Because of the fee, Digit is least useful to the customers who arguably need it the most.
But even with the fee, I still think Digit is the best automated savings tool available today. For your $3 a month, you’ll likely build a bigger savings account than you thought you were capable of — and reap the peace of mind that comes with it. The handful of free alternatives to Digit have unproven business models, making me wary of their long-term prospects. Digit has  started to introduce new money-management features that make it more valuable. You can tell it to sock away the money you’ll need to pay your monthly rent, for example, and it  inject the money back into your account just before the rent is due.
For me, there’s no arguing with the results — Digit has saved me serious cash. If it saves you at least $3,600, the 1 percent interest rate  cover the cost of its monthly fees. You’ll have more in savings than the majority of your fellow Americans — and feel far more capable of handling whatever life throws at you.
Alternative: Qapital is a free alternative that saves money based on rules you set up — rounding to the nearest dollar whenever you take a Lyft and transferring the change to savings, for example. Clarity offers a similar automated savings tool. Downside to both: they put the onus on you to determine how much you should save, and their business models are unproven.
Pay your friends back
Venmo
The last tool you need on your phone is something to help you split bills with friends, loved ones, and roommates — and easily pay the rando you just bought a couch from off Craigslist. Venmo is likely the best known app on this list, and the one most likely to already be on your phone. But the relatively simple peer-to-peer payments app, which is now a subsidiary of PayPal, is still far from ubiquitous. And that’s a shame, because there are few faster ways to transfer money. Just tap the new payments button, type in a friend’s username, and type in the amount of money you want to send or request. It’s all free to both sender and recipient.
Venmo took off among young people, thanks to a novel, counterintuitive gimmick: every payment has to be accompanied by an emoji, which then appears publicly in a feed by default. (The amount of the payment is never shared.) The format is ripe for joking around — sex- and drug-related emoji abound. But it  brings some levity, and humanity, to a genre of app that had never previously seen either. Venmo can be very silly if you’re browsing the feed of your friends’ payments, but it’s  a rock-solid way to move money around — and it has more than earned a place on your phone.
If you regularly split bills with friends or roommates, you should check out Splitwise, which offers more powerful tools for tracking who has paid you back and still owes you. The app lets you settle up using Venmo or PayPal, or you can record a cash payment.
Alternative: Square Cash is even simpler than Venmo, but lacks both the novel social feed and the size of Venmo’s network.
Police should be allowed to unmask anonymous callers who have made serious threats over the phone, the Federal Communications Commission has proposed.
The proposal would allow law enforcement, and potentially the person who’s been called, to learn the phone number of an anonymous caller if they receive a “serious and imminent” threat that poses “substantial risk to property, life, safety, or health.”
Specifics are still up in the air. The FCC is asking, for instance, whether unveiled caller ID information should only be provided to law enforcement officials investigating a threat, to ensure that this exemption isn’t abused.
The proposal is meant to solve a problem that popped up earlier this year when Jewish Community Centers across the country received a series of anonymous bomb threats that went on for weeks. The FCC granted a temporary exemption to law enforcement at the time, allowing investigators to find out the numbers these anonymous calls came from
But that waiver only applied to the JCC threats. With this proposal, the commission is now hoping to extend it to many future threats that are made over the phone.
At the same time, the commission is  considering another exception to the rules: it might allow private emergency services, like an ambulance company, to unmask anonymous calls so that they can provide help. A similar exemption already exists for public emergency services.
The proposal is still in its early stages. An initial vote  come later this month, after which there’ll be several months for the public to weigh in with comments. The FCC  then finalize its proposal based on that feedback and vote again to enact the rules.
FCC proposals always start out as a series of questions, and in this case, it has quite a few to answer. The commission  have to strike a balance between ensuring the privacy of legitimate anonymous callers and ensuring that law enforcement can access the phone numbers of people who truly are delivering threats.
“Threatening callers do not have a legitimate privacy interest in having blocked caller ID protected from disclosure,” the commission writes. It  notes that this proposal must recognize “the privacy interests of legitimate callers who may have valid reasons to block their telephone numbers.”
While being able to uncover the number behind an anonymous call  certainly be a help for law enforcement, it won’t entirely solve the problem of masked callers. Hackers have been able to hijack phone systems and use those to place calls, meaning the phone number wouldn’t actually link back to them.
Back in April, Verizon launched its prepaid unlimited plan, giving customers the option to talk, text, and use as much data as they want (with a few caveats) for $80 a month. Now it’s tackling the prepaid plans below that threshold, adding data and cutting prices for users.
Verizon’s new prepaid plans  get you 3GB for $40; 7GB for $50; or 10GB for $60. This is an improvement on the current plans which offer 2GB for $40; 5GB for $50; and 10GB for $70.
As with any price cut from Verizon, there are going to be losses for the consumer, and this time it comes in video stream quality. All of Verizon’s new prepaid plans  be limited to video streams of 480p, which isn’t great. The plans do allow for tethering, though, which the prepaid unlimited plan doesn’t offer.
Verizon says the new prepaid plans  be available on June 6th.
Every week, a slew of new music videos hits the web. Watching them at your desk is not time theft because you deserve it; think of it as a nice reward for surviving another work week. But what if you don’t have time to watch every video? Maybe you have a deadline, a hungry pet, or other grown-up concerns. In consideration of your schedule, Lizzie and Kaitlyn bring you a series called One Video. Each week we’ll tell you “one video” you need to watch, why, and for how long.
Lizzie: To earn the coveted One Video slot this week, Travis Scott had to compete with a Foo Fighters video, a Major Lazer lyric video filmed on a GoPro, the hype of this YouTube singer with two first names, and a meme of Scott and his girlfriend, Kylie Jenner. He did earn it, though, delivering us more than seven minutes of video footage and dozens of pairs of Adidas track pants to work with.
The song, “Way Back,” is off Scott’s 2016 album, Birds in the Trap Sing McKnight.
Kaitlyn: The Major Lazer video that Travis Scott beat out  featured Travis Scott, so it was a pretty fierce contest. “Way Back” won because, on top of serving as a visual companion to Scott’s excellent album (which features tunes you likely recognize no matter who you are, such as “goosebumps” and “pick up the phone”), it  functions as a compelling short documentary about the life of James Harden. The best thing about music videos is that they are the most versatile and important art form, and I love them. Happy Friday!
Lizzie: Travis Scott is a rapper who has released two studio albums and a handful of mixtapes. He’s from Houston, and this video’s special guest star, NBA player James Harden, is a point guard for the Houston Rockets.
Kaitlyn: Travis Scott and James Harden are  hanging out with dozens of children, some of them doing cheerleading routines, others of them watching old television sets in a warehouse. It sounds a bit sinister on paper, but if you watch the video you’ll see it’s nice. Scott reminds the children “don’t believe what’s on your TV,” and “don’t you sit close to the TV,” which is good advice, and “look boy, seeing is believing,” which is vague yet inspiring, and a reference to either the Bible or The Polar Express. Harden stands upside down on the ceiling, and everyone believes it because they can see it.
Lizzie: “Way Back” opens with Jimmy Harden watching six television screens at once, all airing coverage of a fan-favorite basketball player, Jimbo himself. He goes to the gym and considers life as a professional athlete, while a bunch of ghost cheerleaders cheer him on.
Kaitlyn: You’ll notice that one of the televisions is playing famous footage of California rapper Lil B, who is best known for following nearly every living person on Twitter, releasing an absurd number of mixtapes, believing in himself, and not getting enough credit for the Lil Yachty phenomenon. The footage in question is from an ESPN appearance from summer 2015, for which Lil B dressed up in a women’s sun hat and earrings to discuss the curse he had placed on James Harden (a punishment for stealing one of Lil B’s dance moves). Lil B has  placed the Golden State Warriors’ Kevin Durant under a curse.
To be clear — and I don’t mean to split hairs and slow you down on your way to watching this incredible music video — it’s actually Lil B’s alter-ego TheBasedGod who inflicts curses. According to Lil B, TheBasedGod is a higher power that only he has access to.
Lizzie: The “Way Back” video functions as a bit of a redemption tour for Harden, who, in Game 6 of a semi-finals series against the Spurs last month, played one of the worst games of his career. He scored only 10 points the entire game, prompting a reporter to ask him, at the post-game press conference, if he was injured. (*sad trombone noise*) The whole thing was so embarrassing Lil B said he was ing to consider lifting his curse.
Jim’s fine y’all! He’s just hanging upside down in a gym while lip-syncing Travis Scott lyrics. He’s fine!
I'm gone #Rockets pic.twitter.com/BzBMfLepCg
Lizzie:  You should watch this video for the amount of time it takes you to forget that Spurs player Manu Ginobili did this to Harden:
MANU! pic.twitter.com/L6IVoW2P3h
Kaitlyn: This video is long. I watched it all the way through out of a sense of responsibility to readers whose favorite website is https://www.theverge.com/one-video, but I  say that the only part I can imagine returning to in the future is 4:41 to 7:00. This is when Travis Scott rides around the city in the backseat of a convertible, wearing a pair of Adidas slide sandals with flames on the sides. I’ll never get tired of summer! Summer forever!
Ever since the DC Extended Universe launched with 2013’s Man of Steel, it’s been troubled and contentious. DC Comics’ attempt at a revitalized, unified superhero film franchise has faced nonstop comparisons with Marvel’s more long-running and critically acclaimed cinematic universe, and it’s consistently come out worse in comparison. Warner Bros.’ DC films (to date: Man of Steel, Batman v Superman, and Suicide Squad) have been dour, sullen, narratively messy, and heavily criticized for their particularly fetishized and unrestrained use of violence. They’ve  been distressingly obsessed with forcing their heroes through protracted existential crises instead of letting them be heroes. (Or, in the case of Suicide Squad, reluctant anti-heroes.)
So the impressive thing about the series’s latest installment, Wonder Woman, isn’t that it abandons this approach. It’s that it embraces and redefines it, making it clear that it’s possible to wallow in the emotional troubles that have defined DCEU movies, and still have fun. Wonder Woman has a lightness and wryness that none of its DC predecessors could claim, but it’s still about philosophical crisis and a hero trying to find an identity. It’s still exploring the DCEU’s favorite themes: whether mankind truly deserves heroes, and whether it’s possible for one person to justly wield immense power. Director Patty Jenkins (Monster) and screenwriter Allan Heinberg explore those themes with a humanity that the franchise’s previous films were lacking. They take their protagonist’s natural superiority for granted, making it a joy instead of a heavy burden. In their hands, Wonder Woman questions her place in the world, but not her inherent identity. And it makes all the difference to the story.
It helps that in this revival of iam Moulton Marston’s playful, bondage-obsessed heroine, Wonder Woman — or Diana, as she’s originally known — puts humanity first. Born to an all-female race of Amazons supposedly put on the Earth by Zeus to be a guiding light for humanity, Diana (Gal Gadot) knows from childhood that she wants to be a warrior, and she defies her overprotective mother Hippolyta (Connie Nielsen) at every turn in order to get the training she needs. Martial leader Antiope (Robin Wright) initially tutors her in secret, but Diana becomes a powerful, confident fighter, undermined only by Antiope’s constant insistence that she’s holding back, that she’s more powerful than she realizes.
Her crisis point comes when their magically hidden island of Themyscira is breached, first by fleeing British spy Steve Trevor (Star Trek’s Chris Pine), then by the German soldiers chasing him. Outside of Themyscira’s paradisiacal bubble of protection, World War I has been underway for four years, 25 million people have died, and an armistice is in the works. But an ambitious German general named Ludendorff (Danny Huston, playing an obscure but real historical figure) and his troubled pet scientist, Dr. Maru (The Skin I Live In’s Elena Anaya) are developing a weapon that may change the course of the war. Horrified by Steve’s reports of the war, Diana leaves the island, convinced that the combat was caused by the Amazons’ ancient enemy, Ares, the god of war. She believes if she finds and kills Ares, the Germans  suddenly “become good men again” and stand down.
Wonder Woman represents a number of delicate balancing acts: between humor and gravitas; angst and adventure; full-blown, unvarnished superhero fantasy and the DCEU’s usual unpacking of what those fantasies mean. But its most impressive balancing routine may be the one that plays out between Steve and Diana over whether the Ares myth is real, and whether the histories of gods, Amazons, and magical hidden islands have any place in the modern world. The movie’s opening act on Themyscira is outsized and mythic, but once the story returns to Steve’s familiar, grubby world, Wonder Woman seems like a surreal figure, a children’s story brought to life. The people who see Diana seem to recognize that she’s larger than life, no less startling than a unicorn walking through 1918 London. “I’m both frightened and aroused,” Steve’s buddy Sameer (Saïd Taghmaoui) grumbles, watching her casually respond to a bar fight.
And yet there are no heroes yet in their world, so the characters have a strong urge to treat Diana as just another strikingly beautiful woman — in other words, to protect her, sideline her, and politely diminish her. And without making a fuss about it, she is in no way ing to be diminished. She’s a fish out of water in 1918 London, which gives Wonder Woman a fair number of comedy pegs and opportunities for banter — and  its strongest feminist leanings, as Steve tries to control and contain Diana, and she shrugs him off and does whatever makes sense to her instead. But she’s  the ultimate home-schooled kid, confidently operating under assumptions that have never come up against real-world facts. Wonder Woman gets its philosophical bent from the conflict between her pure, untested idealism and the actual gruesome realities of war, and it finds rich ground in the gap between them.
It  gives the movie a fascinating yet low-key narrative tension, as Diana and Steve try to carry out a spy mission while operating under radically different worldviews: he wants to stop a German weapons program, she wants to stab a god. Wonder Woman continually finds the strain between a mundane worldview and a supernatural, superheroic one, and questions what that strain would do to the people trying to navigate it.
Jenkins has talked extensively in the media about the difficulties of directing a film with such high stakes for women filmmakers and female superheroes — Wonder Woman is being hyped as a litmus test for whether modern cinema audiences  pack theaters to watch a superhero movie with a woman protagonist, and whether a woman director can bring the blockbuster action. But while Wonder Woman is supremely calculated in its gender politics and its gender role reversals, the question of how a female hero sees the world winds up being less interesting than the question of how an entirely self-assured hero sees it. The DCEU’s Batman and Superman are both tormented by their solitude and their histories; as a one-of-a-kind being, Wonder Woman takes her solitude for granted, and her history is almost entirely of her own choosing. Her femininity is part of the story, for the way it makes even the other heroes in the movie underestimate and discount her. But her gender is never the story’s primary thrust.
Instead, Wonder Woman focuses on the horrors of war, the pleasures of camaraderie, and plain, old-fashioned superheroics. The DCEU’s Batman tortures criminals and tries to murder Superman, while Superman himself accidentally destroys cities, and is forced to murder villains. Wonder Woman simply fights injustice and saves lives. It is, frankly, a relief.
Wonder Woman has its inevitable faults. The villains often seem too distant and disconnected from the action, which is ultimately more about Diana coming to terms with war than coming to terms with specific warmongers. The film spends a questionable amount of time on bringing in Steve’s old war buddies, a collection of half-realized, colorful scoundrels who don’t add much to the story except extra voices, and who come across as a weirdly watered-down version of Captain America’s already vaguely sketched Howling Commandoes. Sameer, Charlie (Trainspotting’s Ewen Bremner), and Chief (Eugene Brave Rock) are so thinly drawn, they come across as franchise cameos, being set up for their own feature outing while not having enough to do in this one. They provide some opportunities for pathos and self-examination, especially when Chief admits that he’s a war profiteer because he sees no other choice for a Native American booted from his land. But they’re billed as a collection of special talents that barely come into play.
And Jenkins falls into the same traps that have plagued superhero movies since the beginning of the new millennium: no matter how much thought and humanity went into the bulk of the film, the ending ultimately replaces most of the characters with CGI avatars, and drops the nuance in favor of sheer volume, piled-on explosions, and some particularly silly shouting about love. When a movie this carefully considered suddenly leaps into Fifth Element territory, the nosedive comes hard.
But so much of Wonder Woman finds the potential the DC movies have always had in their heroes. The action is crisp and thrilling, but more importantly, it’s meaningful. It’s carried out in support of a cause the audience can appreciate, by someone trying to protect civilians instead of ignoring them. For once, the DCEU has a hero who’s expressing an ethos instead of fuming and suffering over it. In fierceness and sheer badass fighting prowess, Wonder Woman is a match for the other heroes in her franchise. But in courage and certainty, she tops all of them. She represents the direction her cinematic series should be taking. She isn’t leaving behind existential questions. She’s just playing out a story where those questions can be meaningfully addressed, not just with rage and suffering, but with courage, conviction, and even humor. Batman, Superman, and the Suicide Squad asked the questions about what heroism means. Wonder Woman finally answers those questions definitively, and it’s a tremendous win for a franchise that desperately needed one.
On November 13th, 2010, marine biologist Austin Gallagher was out on a boat in the Florida Keys, when he and his team pulled an 8-foot-long tiger shark on board to tag it with a satellite tracker. Gallagher was straddling the shark to take measurements, when all of a sudden, “I just saw a huge plume of feathers explode on the back of the boat,” he says.
The shark had just puked a bunch of 8- to 9-inch-long feathers. Gallagher couldn’t believe his luck. He’d heard of sharks vomiting when they’re in high-stress situations, but he’d never seen one before. “Oh my god, this finally happened to me,” Gallagher recalls thinking. “I probably had a huge smile on my face.”
See, when sharks are stressed out, they barf — and not just food. Sometimes they puke out their entire stomachs. That happened to a 6-foot-long blue shark that beached in Provincetown, Massachusetts, a couple years ago, for example — and this is what it looked like.
Why? Why do sharks do this? Well, some sharks — like tiger sharks — are voracious eaters that pretty much gobble down whatever they find, including things that aren’t very digestible, like bird feathers, turtles shells, or other bones. If a shark finds itself in a high-stress situation — hooked up to fishing gear, for instance, or stranded on a beach — its instinct reaction is to get rid of that foreign, hard-to-digest food right away.
It might be easier to escape on an empty stomach, says Neil Hammerschlag, a shark researcher at the University of Miami. (Snakes, for instance, are  pukers — they’re known for regurgitating big meals if put under sudden stress after eating.) It’s just a stress response, says Gregory Skomal, a senior scientist at Massachusetts Marine Fisheries, just like a pregnant shark tangled in fishing nets might abort its fetus.
Being lifted up on a boat and held down while someone’s taking measurements isn’t exactly your regular, laid-back swim in the ocean — it’s pretty stressful. So it’s not exactly unusual for biologists like Gallagher to encounter shark barf; in fact, he says he’s observed puke from a dozen to two dozen tiger sharks. One in the Bahamas hocked up “amazing stuff,” including huge lobster claws, king crabs, feathers, and the beak of a sea turtle. “That all came out of one tiger shark,” he says.
But why do sharks barf out their entire stomachs? (This has a scientific name, by the way, and it’s called stomach or gastric eversion.) Apparently, it’s just a way for the sharks to cleanse their stomachs. “It’s basically rinsing it out,” Skomal says. A 2005 paper describing such behavior in a Caribbean reef shark seems to confirm that, saying that sharks do this to remove “indigestible food particles, parasites or mucus.”
In fact, rays — which are closely related to sharks — are  known for hurling their stomachs to rinse them out, to remove “noxious material,” according to a 2000 study published in Nature. Don’t worry, both rays and sharks survive the procedure. In the case of the Caribbean reef shark described in the 2005 paper, the animal retracted its stomach back into its body in less than a second and seemed to be doing just fine. You can see it in this video, by the way:
Some sharks are not as lucky, however. Gallagher says he’s experienced some sharks throwing up their stomach while he was taking measurements. In those cases, he’s helped put the stomachs back into the animals using long objects like pliers, for instance. (Gallagher confirmed he would never do that using his own arm.)
Hammerschlag says he once experienced something even wilder: he was swimming in False Bay, South Africa, when he saw a white shark spew a seal it’d just eaten after being approached by a larger white shark from behind. Maybe the smaller shark was startled? Maybe it didn’t want to get into a fight with the larger shark? In any case, it decided to retch up the seal and then swim away. The larger shark then ate the seal.
“It’s pretty extraordinary, it’s nature in the raw,” Hammerschlag says. “It’s like watching the most amazing documentary, instead you’re kind of living it.”
White sharks have  been observed puking to make room for more food. This reminds me of the ancient Romans, who were (wrongly) thought to use vomitoriums to barf after a lavish meal so they could eat more. The white sharks — as described in a 2013 paper published in PLoS One by both Hammerschlag and Gallagher — were feasting on baleen whale carcasses off the coast of South Africa: they “would routinely regurgitate large chunks of whale blubber only to immediately return to the carcass and feed once again,” the study says.
The sharks’ motivation wasn’t gluttony, however. Instead, they were probably using the complex sensory structure inside their mouths to assess the quality of the food — if the whale part they’ve just eaten doesn’t meet their standards, they’ll disgorge it in favor of eating a better chunk of meat, says Hammerschlag. That’s pretty rad.
Unfortunately, this type of behavior is rarely spotted, and so it’s hard to confirm exactly why it happens. That’s why Gallagher was so excited when he first experienced the tiger shark puke the bird feathers. (“I guess I’m the shark vomit guy!” Gallagher says.)
“These really unique instances ... provide us insights into the secret lives of these animals,” he says. “I kind of felt honored that I’d finally been able to see something like that.”
Taking a decent photo on your smartphone is easier than ever, but if you want to graduate to the next level with a DSLR or mirrorless camera, there’s a lot more to think about. Factors range from focus to shutter speed, aperture to ISO, color range and more, and knowing how to balance them all requires practice. Now, though, a gadget named Arsenal — currently raising funds on Kickstarter — claims it can do all the hard work for you, taking the perfect photograph every time.
Think of it like a supercharged version of the “auto” mode in any point-and-click camera. These auto functions adjust just one or two settings (like changing the exposure based on how bright the scene is) but Arsenal examines far more — looking at 18 separate factors in total. Most significantly, it  uses neural networks to recognize the scene you’re looking at and compare it to a database of professional photographs. It then takes the camera settings used to capture these images and applies them to your camera. You can tweak them to your liking, then take the shot.
Ryan Stout, the creator of Arsenal, told The Verge over email that he thinks his product fills a gap in the market. Stout says camera companies have underinvested in auto modes as they’re usually disdained by pro photographers (for good reason, he notes). This means, Stout says, they haven’t kept up with the advances possible using AI and new hardware.
“Arsenal is one of those products that shouldn't need to exist, but the camera companies have left some really low-hanging fruit,” he says. Stout thinks the Arsenal  appeal to beginner and intermediate photographers who want to make the leap from phone photography, but are finding it difficult to get good shots with their DSLR. “Some of that is composition, obviously, but I noticed a while ago that settings played a big role in that as well,” Stout says.
To create the Arsenal, Stout trained a number of a convolutional neural networks (or CNNs) to analyze images. CNNs are  used by self-driving cars to scan the road, but instead of looking for things like pedestrians and road signs, the ones built in to the Arsenal look for features and scenery like waves, faces, and snow. Stout says he drew on a number of public datasets to train basic feature recognition for his neural nets, and then used high-quality photos taken from Flickr to teach the Arsenal what good camera settings looked like.
This information is combined with sensors built into the gadget, including a vibration-sensing accelerometer that can tell whether the camera is on a tripod or held in the hand. (For more information on the factors Arsenal examines, you can check out this blog post from Stout or watch this video demo using a prototype.) The gadget itself looks like a slim battery pack and clips into the hot shoe mount on top of a camera. It connects via Bluetooth to an iOS and Android app, which can  be used to create time-lapses and long-exposure shots.
Of course, when it comes to a gadget like this, the proof is very much in the pudding. We’ll have to see what type of shots the Arsenal can produce to find out if it’s worth the $150 price tag. But Stout certainly seems correct in suggesting that there’s an eager audience waiting for this technology. At the time of writing, his Kickstarter campaign has attracted more than $700,000 from backers — way over the $50,000 goal. It might not be long before mainstream camera companies  decide this sort of tech is worth a shot.
Do you want to keep your photos for a long time, and make some of them widely available? Or do you want them to be more ephemeral, something you can give to a friend and maybe never see again?
Consciously or not, we ask these questions a lot when trying to decide whether to use Snapchat or Instagram. But they're  swirling at the core of the new Fujifilm Instax Square SQ10.
In many ways, the $279 SQ10 is just like the Instax cameras that came before it. It captures and prints instant photos. It’s fun to use, and people love to interact with it. It still looks a bit like a toy, but it’s  the most polished Instax camera Fujifilm has ever made.
There are two big differences, though. One is that the SQ10 shoots on a new square format of Instax film. The other is that it’s now simultaneously a digital camera, too. These changes are supposed to help Fujifilm — which stands nearly alone in the instant film category — keep selling Instax cameras in the age of Instagram. But, if anything, the company might not have taken that second idea far enough.
First thing’s first: the new square instant film sits right in between Fujifilm’s other two options. It’s a little bit bigger than the Instax Mini, but not quite as big as the Instax Wide. Goldilocks would be proud.
I’ve always liked the cinematic look of Instax Wide, but Instax Square feels more familiar. It’s, perhaps obviously, reminiscent of its ancestor — Polaroid’s instant film. And, despite recently granting some wiggle room by finally allowing landscape and portrait uploads, Instagram is still all about squares, so Fujifilm is trying to cash in on a similar look. (Instax Square film is  Fujifilm’s most expensive format at $17 per pack.)
The SQ10 has a hard time nailing the exposure if you’re in a situation with extremely varied lighting, like in harsh, low sunlight with heavy shadows. Otherwise, the film is as good as it’s always been. It favors rich colors and lots of contrast over fidelity, which has always been the case with instant (and especially Instax) film. It doesn’t perform well in low light alone, but the camera’s flash is more than capable. It’s powerful, but it doesn’t overpower the scene, and it helped me catch some of my favorite photos with the camera. Coming from someone who typically never uses flash, it was a nice surprise.
The SQ10’s blockbuster feature, though, is that it’s  a digital camera, but don’t expect it to compete with the photography experience of a DSLR, or even your smartphone. It uses a 3.7-megapixel CMOS sensor, which is puny by today’s standards. And while the images it captures look good enough printed on a piece of instant film, the digital copies are low-resolution, flat, and often uninspiring. With a little work, they might look fine on Instagram — just know that you’ll have some trouble getting them there. (More on that in a minute.)
There are essentially two ways to shoot with the SQ10, which you pick by way of a toggle switch on the camera’s left side. “Auto” mode means the camera  operate just like all the other Instax — a print  pop out every time you click the shutter.
“Manual” mode is where the camera deviates from the typical Instax experience. It doesn’t mean manual focus, or manual exposure. Rather, the SQ10’s manual mode means you’re only shooting digital images. You can stuff about 50 photos into the small amount of onboard storage, or you can insert a microSD card. (The 32GB card I was using had room for well over 20,000 photos, thanks to the tiny 800–900KB files that the camera creates.)
The behavior of shooting in manual mode is totally new, and there are good and bad sides to it. What’s wonderful, if you’re a control freak like me, is that you now have final say on what the printed photo looks like — not just because you can take a shot over and over to get it right, but  because the camera has 10 creative filters plus an exposure and a vignette tool. You can return to any saved photo and re-edit it to your heart’s desire, which is a nice change of pace for Instax.
The most dumbfounding thing about the SQ10 is that it has no wireless radios. Because of this, you can’t print photos from your phone like with Fujifilm’s Instax Share printer, and it  means it’s a chore to get the camera’s digital files onto your phone. In order to do that, you have to take the microSD card out, stick it in an adapter, plug that into your computer, and then transfer them to your phone. For a camera that’s supposedly all about the Instagram generation, it’s awfully disconnected from Instagram.
Now, do I need digital photos from a camera like this? Definitely not, considering I have a smartphone and a plethora of other digital cameras. One bright side to the SQ10 is that you aren’t wasting moments worrying about which photos to post to Instagram that would otherwise be spent shooting with the camera. And considering people tend to use Instax cameras at parties or when hanging out with friends, that’s probably a good thing. We definitely don’t need another distracting connected device in those situations.
But I  don’t need another graveyard for my images. If the camera is going to save these photos, I’d like to do something with them at some point, and I’d like that process to be easier than it is now.
There’s a more elemental problem with the SQ10’s digital DNA, though. Once people know it’s digital, they react much differently than they do to other Instax cameras. They become more focused on fixing their appearance, and they want to approve the photo before you print it or make sure you delete it.
When you shoot with other Instax cameras, people are typically aware that their attention is precious. It’s like they inherently understand that they’d be half-assing their way through posing for a photo with real costs associated with it. Shooting digital-first with the SQ10, I found they tended to treat the process more like the pose / shoot / review / repeat way of casually photographing each other that has become the norm with smartphones. In this sense, Fujifilm really did make a camera that caters to the Instagram generation — just not in a good way.
Despite all this, the SQ10 can still delight. It generates the same joy that typically comes with shooting instant photos. People get genuinely excited every time the camera prints a picture. They all want to be the one who gets to keep the photo, too. The difference with the SQ10 is that it’s the first instant camera that can accommodate that desire.
It's  now easier than ever to try out creative shooting modes like double exposure or long shutter. Modes like these demand trial and error, and that typically means spending more money and film. But the SQ10 lets you try and try until you’re happy enough to print. The camera accommodates all this repeated shooting, too. I found the battery can get through days of shooting, editing, and printing before it needs to be recharged.
Because the camera’s digital files are so low-resolution, and so hard to access, these wind up being the real benefits of its hybrid nature. And since the digital side of the SQ10 is pretty low-tech, the performance is brisk. It’s not as fast as shooting and reviewing with a smartphone, but it boots up in about two seconds, the autofocus is fast (even in somewhat challenging light), and it shoots quickly, too.
I always thought adding digital components to an Instax camera would make me want to buy one. But Fujifilm didn’t take the idea far enough with the SQ10. It’s basically a bad digital camera with a less capable Instax Share printer attached. Sure, it offers a means for capturing relatively low-resolution backups of your instant photos. Digital functionality  means the SQ10 is the first Instax camera you can constantly use without going broke. That’s a step in the right direction. But the digital photos just aren’t as valuable if there’s no easy way for the user to do something with them.
Fujifilm got a lot right with the SQ10. The design is sharp, and I love the way it feels to grip and shoot. The interface is quick and fun, and the printed photos look just as good as ever. Those are largely the same things that already made Fujifilm’s analog Instax cameras great, though.
Until the company makes a connected version of this camera, the SQ10’s only real advantages are the ability to edit pictures and make multiple prints of the same photo. The idea of a digital / film hybrid camera is a fun one full of possibilities. But the camera won’t be able to bear those out as long as the execution is half-baked. Maybe future Instax cameras  be more connected or more powerful. For now, though, it’s still very much about the printed picture.

With fast cars, silly stunts, and a seemingly endless string of sequels, Need for Speed already had a claim to be the gaming world's Fast and the Furious, even going so far as to lend its name to a markedly similar movie. But new game in the series — Need for Speed: Payback, announced today — makes that connection even clearer.
Payback promises the kind of car fetishizing that previous Need for Speeds have delivered, but  adds a more significant story element, with the "blockbuster" plot apparently "fueled by a gripping story of betrayal and revenge." Rather than taking the wheel as unnamed racers, players of the new Need For Speed  squirm their hands into the driving gloves of three characters: Tyler, Mac, or Jess. (Or, "the Racer," "the Showman," and "the Wheelman," to give them their proper honorifics.)
This trio are up against "The House," a cartel that controls everything in the city of Fortune Valley, including its cops and casinos. The Fast and Furious link goes even deeper than just following a ragtag bunch of racers as they whizz through underground street races, though — Payback  has a renewed focus on car customization that EA says  let players "truly craft a personalized and unique ride," and turn an old banger into a supercar.
Need for Speed: Payback is due out on Xbox One, PS4, and PC on November 10th, but EA Access and Origin Access subscribers  get a headstart, with 10 hours of the game becoming available through the services on November 2nd.
It’s June again, so it’s time for Apple to give the world a look at what it’s been up to and what we should expect from the iPhone, the Mac, and everything in between in the months to come.
On Monday, Apple  kick off this year’s Worldwide Developers Conference with a keynote presentation where, like every year, the company’s top executives  take the stage to talk about their next big releases. Traditionally, WWDC has been a software show, with a heavy focus on iOS and macOS (and, recently, tvOS and watchOS as well). But this year, there have been rumblings that we should expect some hardware news too — including at least one brand new product — which could make the event even more interesting than usual.
The keynote starts at 1PM ET / 10AM PT on June 5th. The Verge  be reporting live from San Jose, so be sure to come back then for all the news.
For now, here’s our guide on what to expect on Monday. There haven’t been a ton of leaks this year, so while we have some ideas of what Apple’s planning, there should still be plenty of surprises in store.
Here’s something we can expect in pretty good confidence: Apple  announce the next iterations of iOS, macOS, tvOS, and watchOS. All four of Apple’s big platforms are on yearly release cycles, with announcements in June, developer previews shortly thereafter, and public releases in the fall. This year shouldn’t be any different.
But what should we expect from each of them? That’s where it gets a bit trickier.
iOS design updates: Bloomberg reported last month that iOS 11 would have “an updated user interface,” though it didn’t offer any details beyond that. One possibility: Apple appears to be working on a “dark mode” for the entire operating system, which changes most backgrounds from white to black. That wouldn’t just be for visual flair. If Apple introduces an OLED iPhone, as it’s rumored to this fall, a dark mode would save battery by letting the screen keep more pixels turned off — much like what the Apple Watch does.
More stylus support: Bloomberg  said we may see updates for the iPad based around the Pencil. Apple might update its apps, like Mail and Safari, to allow the stylus to be used for annotations. It could even go further, mimicking the kind of mark up anything-and-everything abilities that Samsung has given its S Pen styluses.
Pro iPad features: There’s a lot Apple can do to improve the iPad’s multitasking to really offer a pro experience on the iPad Pro; a native version of this this drag-and-drop feature would be a good start. I’m  strongly hoping this is the year we finally see support for multiple user accounts — it’s a frustrating omission, but Apple began laying the groundwork for the feature last year.
Lots of app updates: Apple’s other big story is likely to be app upgrades — looking back to last year, some of iOS’s biggest changes came through apps like iMessage and Photos. It’d be surprising not to see Apple continue that push this year, especially with how successful its changes to iMessage have been.
A way to pay your friends: A recent Recode report says Apple has been weighing a peer-to-peer payments service that would compete with the likes of Venmo and Square Cash, but it’s unclear whether that would be a feature of Apple Pay or whether it would exist as a cash-exchange feature in iMessage (or both).
Something to watch in Apple Music: Apple is typically dead quiet when it comes to what it’s working on. Jimmy Iovine, however, is another story. And it seems like Iovine may have let it slip to Bloomberg that Apple Music  be reworked this year to better feature video. That’s good timing, since Apple’s first original shows are coming out soon. Carpool Karaoke arrives August 8th, and we may hear about Planet of the Apps on Monday.
Siri gets smarter: Apple’s digital assistant has been getting one-upped and lapped and probably three other equivalent sports metaphors in the past couple years. If Apple wants to take on the Amazon Echoes and Google Homes of the world — and it sure sounds like it does — Siri is going to need to do a better jobs of connecting to third party apps and surfacing information for you. It seems likely Apple  start to make more of that happen this year.
Small changes to macOS: Apple hasn’t made big changes to macOS in years (aside from its name), but it’ll certainly keep polishing away and adding new features here and there, with many likely inside Apple-made apps like Mail. Siri was introduced last year, and it could get more powerful this year — last year, it was missing third-party support.
Improvements to watchOS and tvOS: Apple’s two youngest operating systems have been getting very useful and occasionally dramatic changes year to year. There’s no word on what to expect this time around, but it’d be a surprise if we didn’t see Apple keep iterating on the basic experience of using both operating systems. WatchOS still needs work on how it displays apps, and Apple is still figuring out how rework the classic TV guide with tvOS.
In an interview with The Verge in February, Apple TV executive Eddy Cue suggested that the future of web TV would be much more “interactive,” so it’s possible that any software changes could allow app developers to create more interactive apps. And according to a recent report from BuzzFeed News, Amazon Prime Video  finally run on Apple TV, something that Apple TV users have been wanting for years.
Apple talks hardware every now and then during WWDC, and it seems like 2017 is going to be one of those years. Potentially, a big one.
Siri speaker: Apple’s answer to the Amazon Echo and Google Home may well be announced on Monday. What’ll it do? What’ll it look like? Pretty much all of that is speculation for now — there’s even disagreement over whether or not it’ll have a screen.
The speaker is one reason to expect updates to Siri this year, as you can bet that Apple  want to let app developers take advantage of this new device. (It’s unveiling the product at a developer conference, after all.) You can imagine Apple adopting a similar model to how it distributes apps for watchOS, where developers can build Siri features into their core mobile app.
There are a few basic details we do know so far. Bloomberg said recently that Apple has started manufacturing the speaker and that it’ll feature “virtual surround sound” to provide better audio quality. It’ll  function as a hub for HomeKit, Apple’s smart home system. That’s likely to be a highlight for the product.
It’s not clear if Apple has any big features up its sleeve that make its smart speaker stand out from the competition. But tight integration with Apple’s ecosystem of products may be enough. If you already have an iPhone, Apple’s upcoming product may be the easiest smart speaker to get started with.
A new iPad size: This one seems a little bit less certain, but the reliable Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo says that Apple’s been working on a 10.5-inch iPad Pro and  likely introduce it at WWDC. The new model is supposed to be about the same size as the existing 9.7-inch iPad Pro, but it’ll be able to fit a larger screen by narrowing down the device’s bezels. WWDC would be unusual timing for an iPad Pro launch, but Apple released a surprise update of the standard iPad in March, so perhaps it’s just putting them out as they come.
Updated MacBooks and MacBook Pros: Nothing major here, but it’s time for Apple’s laptops to get some spec bumps. Intel has a new line of processors out — Kaby Lake — and Apple should update its laptops to support them, offering a little bit more power and little bit more battery life. There’s  rumors that the MacBook Pro could get an option for more RAM, though that might still be down the road.
A depressing update for the MacBook Air: It’s been two years since Apple updated the MacBook Air, and it certainly looks like the company would happily watch its former star wither away and die. But apparently, sales have remained strong — it’s Apple’s only laptop under $1,000 — and Bloomberg reports that it’s likely to receive an update to include Kaby Lake processors, too.
That won’t do much to modernize the laptop — the Air’s screen, in particular, is now low-resolution and outdated — but it’ll justify the laptop staying around and provide a bit more value for anyone who’s still interested. There’s been some suggestion the Air could get updated to USB-C too, but that’d require more work on Apple’s part, so it wouldn’t be a huge surprise to see everything but the processor stay the same.
What we (probably) won’t see: iPhones are off the table. iMacs could use new processors, but there’s no word on that yet. And while Apple has promised a new Mac Pro, that likely isn’t arriving until at least next year. It’s always possible Apple  talk about its plans for a new pro machine, but a release is a long ways out. The Apple Watch  likely be updated this fall; and while a 4K Apple TV is said to be in the works, there’s no sign it’s coming this month.
Facebook has ramped up efforts to combat hate speech in Europe and is now in compliance with voluntary guidelines agreed to last year, the European Commission (EC) said this week, but Twitter and YouTube are still lagging behind.
In a report published Thursday, the EC said tech companies have made “significant progress” in complying with a voluntary “code of conduct” to review the majority of hate speech complaints within 24 hours. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Microsoft signed on to the code of conduct in May 2016. European lawmakers are currently considering legislation that would require tech companies to block videos that contain hate speech or terrorist propaganda, as part of a broader effort to curb illegal speech online. Such proposals have raised concerns from digital rights groups who fear that they could infringe on free speech.
An EC evaluation published in December 2016 found that tech companies were still failing to comply with the code of conduct, noting that just 40 percent of reported material was reviewed within 24 hours, and just 28 percent of flagged content was removed. Six months later, the companies have reviewed 51 percent of reported content within 24 hours, and removal rates increased to 59 percent, according to the report released this week. The EC’s findings were first reported by The New York Times on Wednesday.
"The results of our second evaluation of the code of conduct are encouraging,” EU Justice Commissioner Vĕra Jourová said in a statement Thursday. “The companies are now removing twice as many cases of illegal hate speech and at a faster rate when compared to six months ago. This is an important step in the right direction and shows that a self-regulatory approach can work, if all actors do their part.”
Facebook is the only company that currently complies with the code of conduct, according to the EC. The company reviewed nearly 58 percent of flagged content within 24 hours — up from 50 percent in December — compared to 42.6 percent for YouTube and 39 percent for Twitter. Twitter has accelerated its moderation procedures since December, when the EC found that it reviewed just 23.5 percent of reported content within the 24-hour time frame. But YouTube has seen its rate fall; in December, the Google-owned site reviewed 60.8 percent of flagged content within 24 hours.
The report  highlights “a large disparity” in how social media companies provide feedback to those who report hate speech. According to the EC, Facebook provided feedback in 93.7 percent of reported cases, compared to 32.8 percent for Twitter and 20.7 percent for YouTube. Xenophobic and anti-Muslim content were the most commonly reported, accounting for a combined 34 percent of notifications, followed by content targeting ethnic origin (15.8 percent).
“Over the past six months, we've introduced a host of new tools and features to improve Twitter for everyone,” Karen White, Twitter's head of public policy for Europe, said in a statement to Reuters. “We’ve  improved the in-app reporting process for our users and we continue to review and iterate on our policies and their enforcement. Our work  never be 'done.'"
Juniper Downs, head of public policy at YouTube, tells Reuters that the company has “learned a lot from” the EC’s code of conduct “and  continue to invest heavily in people and systems to address these issues.”
Tech companies have been facing increased pressure to curb hate speech across Europe. Germany is currently considering a law that would impose fines of up to €50 million ($56.1 million) on companies that fail to quickly remove hateful content, while UK Prime Minister Theresa May expressed support for a similar measure following the Manchester terrorist attack last month.



It’s Friday morning and everyone’s already eager to clock off from work, including astronauts Oleg Novitskiy and Thomas Pesquet, who  depart the International Space Station and head back to Earth just before 7AM ET. You can watch them do so live in the stream above, with the undocking procedure of their Soyuz capsule expected to start around 6:30AM. If all goes according to schedule, the craft containing Novitskiy and Pesquet  perform its routine de-orbit burn at 9:17AM (firing the engines to slow the craft’s approach) before the pair land back on terra firma at roughly 10:10AM. How’s that for a commute home.
Pesquet (of the European Space Agency) and Novitskiy (of Russian space agency Roscosmos) have been on the ISS for a total of 196 days. They blasted up to the station along with NASA astronaut Peggy Whitson as the crew of Expedition 51 back in November 2016 and even celebrated Pesquet’s birthday on board (see below). But due to downsizing from Roscosmos (the agency is temporarily reducing the number of cosmonauts it stations on the ISS from three to two) Whitson  not be accompanying the pair on their journey back to Earth.
Instead, she’ll stay until September, extending her residency and furthering a record she set in April — spending more hours in space than any other US astronaut. In a statement in April she said: “I love being up here. Living and working aboard the space station is where I feel like I make the greatest contribution, so I am constantly trying to squeeze every drop out of my time here. Having three more months to squeeze is just what I would wish for.” Novitskiy and Pesquet would presumably feel similar, but I’ll bet they’re  happy to be heading back home. TGIF.
You know just from using a laptop that computers give off a lot of excess heat. For data centers containing tens of thousands of servers, this is a big problem, wasting energy and money. To try and mitigate this, companies have experimented with moving facilities to near the Arctic Circle and even submerging servers underwater. But Dutch startup Nerdalize has a different approach. Rather than trying to dissipate excess energy from servers, it wants to harness it, using it to heat people’s homes instead.
The setup is simple enough: you pay Nerdalize to install a server in your home; it heats your house for free; and Nerdalize makes money by selling the server space to other companies. Back in 2015, the company unveiled its first product — a standalone wall heater powered by a single server that was used in a year-long pilot in five households. The heaters were slow, taking about an hour to warm up, and fairly weak, only providing enough heat for a small room. But they worked. And Nerdalize is now moving on to a second pilot that integrates its sever-heat more tightly with customer’s homes.
Starting in August, Nerdalize plans to equip 42 Dutch households with servers to heat their water supply, providing, it says, hot showers using nothing more than data. (Well, data, and piping-hot silicon.) The company says its setup  save customers €300 a year ($336) while costing companies 50 percent less for data services. Each installation  takes three tons of CO2 away from a household’s carbon footprint. Nerdalize says it’s a “win-win-win” scenario, and has launched a crowdfunding campaign to expand the project. Its reached its initial goal of €250,000, and is now aiming to raise half a million euros.
It’s an ambitious project, and one that just sounds so clever, killing a number of inefficiencies at a single stroke. However, there are lot of unresolved questions about Nerdalize’s plans. Like,  companies be happy about having their data sitting in people’s houses? And how  customers feel when they need to let an engineer in to fix their malfunctioning servers? And, more simply,  the whole business plan even be sustainable at scale? It seems for Nerdalize that the proof is in the pudding, as it continues to put its technology in more houses.
If you work in technology there’s often a joke about someone tripping over the power cord whenever a server goes down. It appears that joke became reality for British Airways last weekend. British Airways flights were disrupted worldwide due to a power supply issue in the company’s main datacenter, with 75,000 passengers affected by canceled flights. The Times reports that the datacenter shutdown was triggered by a contractor accidentally switching off the power supply.
British Airways was forced to cancel all flights from Heathrow and Gatwick in London over a popular public holiday weekend, as all of the company’s IT systems were affected. An investigation  now take place, but  likely focus on human error rather than equipment failure. British Airways   have to answer why the company wasn’t better prepared for power supply issues, especially after being accused of cost-cutting and outsourcing IT jobs. The Guardian reports that British Airways now faces a compensation bill of more than £100 million ($128 million) for the chaos caused by the power supply problems.
US visa applicants may be required to disclose any social media handles, email addresses, and phone numbers used over the previous five years, under new procedures approved by the Trump administration. As Reuters reports, a new questionnaire for visa applicants was approved by the Office of Management and Budget on May 23rd, after receiving sharp criticism during a public comment period.
The procedures allow consular officials to request 15 years worth of personal information — including applicants’ previous addresses, employment history, and travel records — in addition to the social media data. More than 50 academic groups criticized the proposed screening procedures in a letter to the State Department earlier this month, writing that the protocol would fuel “uncertainties and confusion” that may discourage students and researchers from coming to the US.
The new questions are described as voluntary, though applicants who do not disclose additional information may see their processing delayed or halted, according to the questionnaire. A State Department official tells Reuters that the additional information  be requested if officials determine that it “is required to confirm identity or conduct more rigorous national security vetting.”
Previously, the State Department said that the questions pertaining to social media use, emails, and phone numbers would only apply to applicants “who have been determined to warrant additional scrutiny in connection with terrorism or other national security-related visa ineligibilities.” Earlier this year, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson ordered a “mandatory social media check” for all visa applicants who visited ISIS-controlled territory, as part of the “extreme vetting” that Trump vowed to implement when campaigning for president.
More than 200 people commented on the proposal during the public comment period, which ended on May 18th. The majority of comments were negative, Reuters reported last month.

Microsoft was forced to apologize late last night after a mistake led to some confidential and internal Windows 10 builds being released to the public. “Builds from some of our internal branches were accidentally released for PC and Mobile,” reveals Dona Sarkar, Microsoft’s head of its Windows Insiders program. “This happened because an inadvertent deployment to the engineering system that controls which builds / which rings to push out to insiders.”
Microsoft says it quickly reverted the issue and put blocks in place to ensure these development builds didn’t reach more people, but a “small portion” of Windows 10 users still received them. Worryingly, the accidental mobile build even reached retail devices outside of Microsoft’s Windows Insiders testing. If Windows 10 testers installed the mobile build it forced phones into a reboot loop and bricked the device. Testers  have to recover and wipe the device using the Windows Device Recovery Tool.
Windows 10 testers that installed the PC build, an internal Edge branch,  have to wait for Microsoft to publish a newer build or roll back using the recovery option in Windows 10 settings. “We apologize for this inconvenience and thank you for being a Windows Insider,” says Sarkar. Microsoft says it won’t be releasing any new builds this week, presumably as it’s working to ensure this surprising mistake doesn’t occur again.
Snap is bringing Spectacles to Europe nearly seven months after debuting them in the US. The camera-equipped sunglasses  be available online through spectacles.com or through the company’s Snapbot vending machines, which  be in London (under the London Eye), Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, and Venice starting today. A pair  cost  £129.99 / €149.99.
Snap says more than 55 million people use Snapchat daily in Europe for at least 30 minutes a day. I’m going to assume they all won’t rush out today to get a pair, thereby recreating the insane hype of the US release. But still, never forget that pairs once went for hundreds of dollars on eBay.
Snap hinted at releasing Spectacles abroad in February after it launched its US online store and filed with the SEC for its IPO. The company said at the time that it planned “to make substantial investments” in marketing and distribution this year. We’ll hopefully see how successful this strategy is when Snap issues its next earnings report.

Anything Uber can do, Waymo — Alphabet's self-driving car company that was spun off from Google — can apparently do, too. BuzzFeed News reports that Waymo is testing its own autonomous truck technology, a year after Uber purchased trucking startup Otto and kicked off its own self-driving semi venture.
BuzzFeed says it first spotted Waymo's self-driving truck in a photo, before confirming the project with the company. A Waymo spokesperson explained the company's efforts, saying that it was "taking our eight years of experience in building self-driving hardware and software and conducting a technical exploration into how our technology can integrate into a truck." Safety was the focus of the expansion into the sector, the spokesperson said, with the aim of reducing the "thousands of trucking-related deaths each year."
Waymo and Uber have rapidly become fierce rivals, but the Google spinoff isn't as far along in the self-driving truck sphere as the ride-sharing firm. Waymo confirmed that it was only testing one vehicle at the moment, and that it was still manually driving it on a public road in order to collect data. Uber, on the other hand, delivered its first shipment in a self-driving freight vehicle last August, a short time after it bought Otto. The company's had its problems with the project — the vehicles were accused of breaking California driving laws — but it has  had more time to test and plan for its own network of automated delivery vehicles.

Nintendo has shed more light on the paid online subscription service it’s planning to offer for its Switch console, confirming US pricing, and stating that it  launch in full at some point in 2018.
The company says it   launch a smartphone app alongside the service’s rollout next year that  let players invite friends, set up gaming sessions, or chat with friends during games on their second screens. We’ll get an early look at that software this summer, when Nintendo  put out a free, limited version of the app.
Online play for Switch games  be free until the full service comes online in 2018, at which point players  need to pay for membership in order to access online multiplayer. One month’s subscription  cost $3.99, with three months running to $7.99, and a year’s membership available for $19.99. In addition to multiplayer access, subscription  opens up eShop deals, meaning members  get money off new games bought through Nintendo’s digital download platform.
 included in that fee is access to classic games from Nintendo’s back catalog, updated with multiplayer support and playable on the new console. Nintendo had originally indicated that these games would only be available for download for a month at a time, similar to Sony’s PlayStation Plus service, but the company today confirmed to Kotaku that all the games under this umbrella would be available for all subscribers in a library. “Users can play as many of the games as they want, as often as they like, as long as they have an active subscription,” a spokesperson told the publication.
Nintendo won't give many more details on the Switch's Netflix-like classic library, but they did send me this: https://t.co/ZdTAPYw2Y2 pic.twitter.com/oWWDFNhtW7
It’s not clear exactly which of Nintendo’s retro games  be available down the line, but the company references Super Mario Bros. 3, Balloon Fight and Dr. Mario on its site. At launch, the classic library  only include NES games, but Nintendo says it’s considering bringing over SNES games too at some point in the future
Update June 1st, 10PM ET: Updated with Nintendo’s statement to Kotaku on classic game availability.
President Trump announced his plans to pull out of the Paris climate agreement today in a jazz-accompanied spectacle at the Rose Garden. He justified the decision by arguing that the terms of the accord “could cost Americans as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025.” Of those, he claimed 440,000 would be manufacturing jobs. “Believe me,” the president said. “This is not what we need.”
But experts say that there are some problems with the way Trump presented those numbers. “It’s not something you can cite in a presidential speech with a straight face,” says Yale economist Kenneth Gillingham. “It’s being used as a talking point taken out of context.”
The source for President Trump’s numbers is a report by the consulting firm National Economics Research Associates (NERA). The report was commissioned by the American Council for Capital Formation and the US Chamber of Commerce, two organizations that the Natural Resources Defense Council has described as “unabashed apologists for America’s biggest climate polluters.”
NERA modeled what might happen to the economy if the US were to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as promised in the Paris climate agreements. It reported that total “economy-wide employment losses amount to about 2.7 million in 2025” and that “the manufacturing sector alone could potentially lose 440,000 job-equivalents.” (NERA did not respond immediately to an emailed request for comment.)
But the model NERA used to come up with those numbers is unrealistically rigid, says Gary Yohe, a professor of economics and environmental studies at Wesleyan University. It assumes that businesses wouldn’t innovate to keep costs down in the face of new regulations — which isn’t how industry works. “None of the outfits that are modeled in this model would stay in business in the real economy for more than 10 or 15 years,” he says. That’s why even massive oil producers like Exxon and Conoco support the Paris climate agreement — they’re adapting to a changing economy.
As a result, 2.7 million lost jobs are probably an extreme, and unlikely, worst-case scenario. After all, the number of jobs in solar grew by 25 percent in 2016, and by 32 percent in wind. In fact, while 1.1 million people work in coal, oil, and gas, there are another 800,000 people whose jobs lie with low-carbon-emitting technologies like renewables, natural gas, and nuclear power, according to the Department of Energy. “Put simply, they’re not accounting for the jobs in the clean energy economy that are created,” Gillingham says.
The other problem the study itself acknowledges: “It does not take into account potential benefits from avoided emissions. The study results are not a benefit-cost analysis of climate change.” That means that these dire numbers aren’t being balanced by another model estimating the potential gains to the US economy by preventing climate change. “If you assume that there are no benefits and the costs are there, then of course things look bad,” Gillingham says. Trump asked us to believe him, but he’ll have to have to stop cherry picking stats first.
Essential, the new hardware outfit from Android co-founder Andy Rubin, may branch out from phones and smart home accessories into Google Glass-like smart frames. An old patent filing, dug up by the folks at Patently Apple and granted prior to its big phone reveal this week, show a concept device shaped like a standard pair of eyeglasses, but with camera and display hardware built in.
Much like Snapchat’s Spectacles, this theoretical Essential device would be used to capture eye-level photo and video with a built-in camera. However it would go further, more in the vein of Google’s ill-fated Glass headset, by adding digital information and images to real life scenes with some type of augmented reality tech. The filing describes the device working with prescription lenses, photo sensitive lenses, and standard sunglass lenses. There is  talk of a “dual-mode display,” which would present visual overlays and use an inward facing camera to perform eye tracking.
The patent  describes AR use cases like real-time price matching of products in a store. “Based on the environment that the user sees, and based on the direction of the user's gaze, the processor can display an image to augment the environment around the user,” the filing reads. “For example, if the user is looking at a barcode of an item, the processor can display cheaper purchasing options of the same item."
This is of course not a real product, at least not yet. Though from what we’ve seen from Essential, which starts shipping its new Essential Phone later this month or early July, it’s clear the company has serious hardware ambitions to take on the biggest players in the tech industry. We don’t know quite yet whether the Essential Phone can keep pace with the iPhone or its fellow top-tier Android competitors, nor do we know if the company’s Essential Home  be a viable smart speaker compared with offerings from Google and Amazon. But if Essential can arrive early to the smart glasses market, it could just gain an early edge in a sector not yet dominated by a big Silicon Valley player.
Google  introduce an ad blocker to Chrome early next year and is telling publishers to get ready.
The warning is meant to let websites assess their ads and strip any particularly disruptive ones from their pages. That’s because Chrome’s ad blocker won’t block all ads from the web. Instead, it’ll only block ads on pages that are determined to have too many annoying or intrusive advertisements, like videos that autoplay with sound or interstitials that take up the entire screen.
Sridhar Ramaswamy, the executive in charge of Google’s ads, writes in a blog post that even ads “owned or served by Google”  be blocked on pages that don’t meet Chrome’s guidelines.
Instead of an ad “blocker,” Google is referring to the feature as an ad “filter,” according to The Wall Street Journal, since it  still allow ads to be displayed on pages that meet the right requirements. The blocker  work on both desktop and mobile.
Google is providing a tool that publishers can run to find out if their sites’ ads are in violation and  be blocked in Chrome. Unacceptable ads are being determined by a group called the Coalition for Better Ads, which includes Google, Facebook, News Corp, and The Washington Post as members.
The feature is certain to be controversial. On one hand, there are huge benefits for both consumers and publishers. But on the other, it gives Google immense power over what the web looks like, partly in the name of protecting its own revenue.
First, the benefits: bad ads slow down the web, make the web hard and annoying to browse, and have ultimately driven consumers to install ad blockers that remove all advertisements no matter what. A world where that continues and most users block all ads looks almost apocalyptic for publishers, since nearly all of your favorite websites rely on ads to stay afloat. (The Verge, as you have likely noticed, included.)
By implementing a limited blocking tool, Google can limit the spread of wholesale ad blocking, which ultimately benefits everyone. Users get a better web experience. And publishers get to continue using the ad model that’s served the web well for decades — though they may lose some valuable ad units in the process.
There’s  a good argument to be made that stripping out irritating ads is no different than blocking pop ups, which web browsers have done for years, as a way to improve the experience for consumers.
But there are drawbacks to building an ad blocker into Chrome: most notably, the amount of power it gives Google. Ultimately, it means Google gets to decide what qualifies as an acceptable ad (though it’s basing this on standards set collectively by the Coalition for Better Ads). That’s a good thing if you trust Google to remain benign and act in everyone’s interests. But keep in mind that Google is, at its core, an ad company. Nearly 89 percent of its revenue comes from displaying ads.
The Chrome ad blocker doesn’t just help publishers, it  helps Google maintain its dominance. And it advantages Google’s own ad units, which, it’s safe to say,  not be in violation of the bad ad rules.
This leaves publishers with fewer options to monetize their sites. And given that Chrome represents more than half of all web browsing on desktop and mobile, publishers  be hard pressed not to comply.
Google   include an option for visitors to pay websites that they’re blocking ads on, through a program it’s calling Funding Choices. Publishers  have to enable support for this feature individually. But Google already tested a similar feature for more than two years, and it never really caught on. So it’s hard to imagine publishers seeing what’s essentially a voluntary tipping model as a viable alternative to ads.
Ramaswamy says that the goal of Chrome’s ad blocker is to make online ads better. “We believe these changes  ensure all content creators, big and small, can continue to have a sustainable way to fund their work with online advertising,” he writes.
And what Ramaswamy says is probably true: Chrome’s ad blocker likely  clean up the web and result in a better browsing experience. It just does that by giving a single advertising juggernaut a whole lot of say over what’s good and bad.
The ZTE Nubia Z17 may be the most powerful phone to come out of China yet. The phone — which is being touted by human statue and face of ZTE, Cristiano Ronaldo, in press images — is packed with high-end parts, including a ridiculous 8GB of RAM:
The Z17 is only the second phone to come with 8GB of RAM, and the first to support Qualcomm’s Quick Charge 4+, which  recharge the battery to 50 percent in 25 minutes. It’s  only the second Chinese phone to utilize the Snapdragon 835 after Xiaomi’s Mi 6.
It’s  water resistant, supports Dolby Atmos, comes with an IR blaster, and  be available in five colors: blue, black, gold, red, and black and gold. The Z17, which is currently only available in China,  start at CNY2,799 ($411) for a 6GB +64GB or storage version, and top out at CNY3,999 ($583) for the 8GB +128GB of storage option.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella all said today that they remain committed to the environment and clean energy initiatives in the face of Trump’s decision to withdrawn the US from the Paris climate coalition.
Though many voices around the world, including politicians and representatives from numerous corporations and countries, have expressed extreme concern over Trump’s decision, Pichai, Nadella, and Zuckerberg are three of the most powerful figures in the tech. Their opinions on political matters carry immense weight in the industry, suggesting many other members in Silicon Valley and beyond  speak up on behalf of the tech sector. Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk  confirmed today on Twitter that he would be stepping down from Trump’s economic advisory councils over the decision.
“Withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement is bad for the environment, bad for the economy, and it puts our children's future at risk,” Zuckerberg wrote on his personal Facebook page. “For our part, we've committed that every new data center we build  be powered by 100 percent renewable energy. Stopping climate change is something we can only do as a global community, and we have to act together before it's too late.”
Shortly after 5PM ET, Pichai tweeted, “Disappointed with today’s decision. Google  keep working hard for a cleaner, more prosperous future for all.” Slightly early in the afternoon, Nadella and Brad Smith, the company’s chief legal officer, both tweeted messages reiterating Microsoft’s commitment to reducing carbon emissions and preventing the devastating effects of climate change. “We believe climate change is an urgent issue that demands global action. We remain committed to doing our part,” Nadella wrote.
Disappointed with today’s decision. Google  keep working hard for a cleaner, more prosperous future for all.
Smith, who is known for penning lengthy and thorough blog posts on controversial political topics on behalf of Microsoft,  directed readers to a LinkedIn post that better explained the company’s reasoning for denouncing the withdrawal.
“We are disappointed with today’s decision by the White House to withdraw the United States from the landmark, globally supported Paris Agreement on climate change,” Smith writes. “We believe that continued U.S. participation benefits U.S. businesses and the economy in important and multiple ways. A global framework strengthens competitiveness for American businesses. It creates new markets for innovative clean technologies, from green power to smart grids to cloud-enabled solutions. And by strengthening global action over time, the Agreement reduces future climate damage to people and organizations around the world.”
Though Musk and the others remain the most prominent tech industry leaders to have personally voiced concern on the subject, other tech companies have been issuing statements denouncing Trump’s decision as well. Both Amazon and HP issued statements saying they  continue to support the agreement and to take actions to reduce emissions and mitigate the effects of climate change. “Climate change is one of the most significant and urgent issues facing business and society today,” wrote HP in its statement. “The science is clear, the impacts are serious and the need to act is essential.”
Here's Amazon's reaction to Trump pulling out of Paris Accords: pic.twitter.com/Mw2pwV49EF
Prior to Trump’s press conference today, tech leaders across the industry attempted to sway the president from following through on the withdrawal. Among those were Apple CEO Tim Cook, who called the White House on Tuesday to reportedly ask Trump to reconsider. A number of other companies signed a letter that was published today as a full-page ad in both The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times expressing the same concern.
According to Axios, Cook sent an email to to Apple employees today confirming his attempt on Tuesday to convince Trump to remain part of the accord. “Climate change is real and we all share a responsibility to fight it. I want to reassure you that today's developments  have no impact on Apple's efforts to protect the environment,” Cook wrote in the email. “Our mission has always been to leave the world better than we found it. We  never waver, because we know that future generations depend on us.”
Many corporate leaders like Cook tried, and apparently failed, to appeal to Trump’s nationalistic tendencies. They do so by trying to reiterate the damage the withdrawal could do to America’s business interests, as well as its ability to compete on the global stage with the nearly 200 other members of the Paris climate deal. Despite those efforts, Trump is now following through with his promise to try and renegotiate the agreement, a task some EU countries have already said is virtually impossible.
Update 5:50PM ET, 6/1: Added statement from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
Update 8:11PM ET, 6/1: Added excerpt from email Apple CEO Tim Cook sent to company employees today.
After President Donald Trump announced that the US would no longer honor the Paris climate agreement, three states have announced they’re rebelling.
New York governor Andrew Cuomo, California governor Edmund Brown Jr., and Washington state governor Jay Inslee said they’re forming a coalition of states committed to fighting climate change. The move basically formally shifts the responsibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the federal government to the local level.
“I am proud to stand with other governors as we make sure that the inaction in D.C. is met by an equal force of action from the states," Inslee said in a statement. "Today’s announcement by the president leaves the full responsibility of climate action on states and cities throughout our nation. While the president’s actions are a shameful rebuke to the work needed to protect our planet for our children and grandchildren, states have been and  continue to step up.”
Throughout the US, cities and states have already been at the forefront in the fight against climate change. Last year, California extended an ambitious law aimed at slashing emissions 40 percent below the 1990 levels by 2030. New York pledged to the same goals, according to Newsweek; it is  one of nine Northeastern states that’s part of a joint cap-and-trade program.
New York, California, and Washington represent 68 million Americans and over one-fifth of US GDP, accounting for at least 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the US, the press release said. The coalition, called the United States Climate Alliance,  convene states that want to uphold the Paris Climate Agreement. Under the deal, former President Barack Obama had pledged to reduce US emissions by 26–28 percent of 2005 levels by 2025.
These states have been taking charge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for years now. With the White House uning to take climate change seriously, they  have to continue to lead the way.

Walmart’s 200 “Walmart Academy” training centers are all planning to incorporate virtual reality by the end of 2017, after an earlier pilot program. The limited curriculum is being produced by Strivr, a company previously known for helping NFL players train through VR. New Walmart employees  put on an Oculus Rift headset and enter different real-world scenarios, during which they’ll be asked to make simple choices based on what they see. Eventually, Strivr and Walmart hope to expand the program to all stores, not just the academies.
Training simulators have been part of VR since the very beginning, but they’re more frequently associated with industrial labor or military training than with service work. The goal here, says Strivr CEO Derek Belch, is to put employees in scenarios that would be inconvenient to physically re-create — like dealing with spills, or preparing for a Black Friday shopping spree.
“We’re using computer vision to map scenes, so we literally know exactly where someone's looking,” says Belch. “If they don't look at [the right place] and press the button indicating that they have seen the stimuli that we're looking for, we know.” Wearers might look around an environment and find the spill, for example, then answer a multiple-choice question about what effect it could have on the store.
One of the biggest problems for Strivr and Walmart is that high-end VR headsets like the Oculus Rift are expensive and space-consuming. That’s why, for now, only one person  go through the training at a time, while other people watch on a flat screen. Everybody  eventually get to spend time in VR, but only over the course of their two-week training period, with each session lasting between 5 and 20 minutes. “In a perfect world, everybody has a VR headset,” says Belch. “VR is not there yet. Even the mobile devices, there's a lot of challenges in getting that much hardware out into people's hands at scale.” So for now, VR is a small, supplemental part of Walmart training.
But Belch thinks that we’ll see it expand rapidly. “This is something that we have talked openly with [Walmart] about, that very well could be at every Walmart store in a couple years,” he says. “You could imagine this area where there's a room in the back and there are three mobile headsets hanging on the wall, and employees have to go through continuing education every month, going through VR modules.” That’s right: if you work for Walmart, maybe soon you can enjoy Black Friday every month.
The race to be the first to deploy autonomous vehicles is on among carmakers, emerging startups, and tech giants. Amid this constant news cycle of deals and drama, the purpose of all of it can get lost — or at least a bit muddied. What exactly are these companies racing for?
A $7 trillion annual revenue stream, according to a study released Thursday by Intel. The companies that don’t prepare for self-driving risk failure or extinction, Intel says. The report  finds that over half a million lives could be saved by self-driving over just one decade.
The study, prepared by Strategy Analytics, predicts autonomous vehicles  create a massive economic opportunity that  scale from $800 billion in 2035 (the base year of the study) to $7 trillion by 2050. An estimated 585,000 lives could be saved due to autonomous vehicles between 2035 and 2045, the study predicts.
This “passenger economy,” as Intel is calling it, includes the value of the products and services derived from fully autonomous vehicles as well as indirect savings such as time.
This is hardly the first attempt to place value on autonomous vehicles, nor  it be the last. However, Intel’s study offers a few interesting predictions for autonomous vehicles and how a combination of mobile connectivity, population density in cities, traffic congestion and subsequent regulation, and the rise of on-demand ride-hailing and car-sharing services  be the catalysts in this new economic era.
Of course, Intel has a vested interest in rosy predictions about the future of autonomous transportation. The chipmaker has promised to spend $250 million over the next two years to develop self-driving technology, and recently acquired Jerusalem-based auto vision company Mobileye for an eye-popping $15 billion. And Intel is working with BMW to put self-driving cars on the road later this year. So when Intel pays for a study that predicts self-driving cars  cause cash to rain from the sky, it should be seen as equal parts industry analysis and wishful thinking.
Autonomous technology  drive change across a range of industries, the study predicts, the first green shoots of which  appear in the business-to-business sector. These autonomous vehicles  first appear in developed markets and  reinvent the package delivery and long-haul transportation sectors, says Strategy Analytics president Harvey Cohen, who co-authored the study. This  relieve driver shortages, a chronic problem in the industry, and account for two-thirds of initial projected revenues.
One of the bolder predictions is that public transportation as we know it today — trains, subways, light rails, and buses —  be supplanted, or at least radically changed, by the rise of on-demand autonomous vehicle fleets.
The study argues that people  flock to suburbs as population density rises in city centers, pushing commute times higher and “outstripping the ability of public transport infrastructure to fully meet consumer mobility needs.”
The pressures of mounting traffic congestion and the correlated emissions  drive regulators to include autonomous vehicles as a part of their larger public transportation plans. Some cities may choose to own the vehicle networks not unlike existing public transportation, the study says.
The bulk of the revenue generated in the new economy  be driven by this “mobility-as-a-service.”
By 2050, business use of mobility as a service  generate about $3 trillion in revenues, or 43 percent of the total passenger economy. Consumer use  account for $3.7 trillion, or 53 percent, the study predicts.
The remaining $200 billion in revenue (of the $7 trillion total)  be generated by new applications and services as driverless vehicle services expand. A key opportunity  be how to capitalize on all of this saved time people  have once they no longer have to drive a car.
Self-driving vehicles are expected to free more than 250 million hours of consumers’ commuting time per year in the most congested cities in the world, the study says. That’s a lot of time that could be filled with streaming video, news, and other content delivered to a captured audience.
It could  change the way cars are used. Vehicles could become “experience pods,” places where people can have their hair styled and cut, conduct a meeting, or receive a health screening.
Keep in mind, that this reimagined future doesn’t mean people  necessarily spend less time in cars. One of the great promises of self-driving cars is a reduction in congestion because these vehicles  be able share real-time traffic data and optimize tasks like finding parking.
However, in a more densely populated world, where cities rely on shared autonomous vehicles for public transit, there  be more traffic than ever before. The question is: how do people want to spend their time?
Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk is stepping away from his roles on two of Donald Trump’s advisory councils following the president’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. Musk announced the news in a Twitter post shortly after the president’s statement at the White House.
“[I] Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world,” Musk wrote. He had previously been a member of Trump’s Manufacturing Jobs Initiative and the Strategic and Policy Forum.
As early as last week Musk had stated that he was “cautiously optimistic of a positive decision.” But yesterday, as rumors swirled that Trump would begin the process of withdrawing the US from the agreement, Musk threatened to sever his connection to the president. “[I] don't know which way Paris  go, but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH & via councils, that we remain,” he tweeted.
This prompted another Twitter user to ask him what he’d do if Trump pulled the US out of the accord. Musk responded that he’d “have no choice but to depart councils in that case.”
Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world.
Musk had spent months swatting criticism for keeping his connection with Trump, especially because his companies — Tesla and SpaceX — benefit from government tax credits and contracts. He first explained the decision in February at the height of the controversy surrounding Trump’s proposed travel ban.
“My goals are to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy and to help make humanity a multi-planet civilization, a consequence of which  be the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and a more inspiring future for all,” he wrote at the time. Musk then claimed that maintaining a relationship with the president would allow him to engage Trump on issues like climate change, which would “on balance serve the greater good.”
Later that week, he wrote that he had used one of the council meetings to raise climate change as an important issue. “I believe this is doing good, so  remain on council & keep at it. Doing otherwise would be wrong,” he added.


President Donald Trump just announced the United States  pull out of the Paris climate agreements, though it  try to negotiate for a new climate deal. Withdrawing from the agreement — a landmark deal that commits almost every country in the world to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to fight global warming — was one of Trump’s signature campaign promises. In recent months, however, it seemed less clear whether he would go through with it.
“We’re getting out, but we’re starting to negotiate and we  see if we can make a deal that’s fair,” Trump said from a press conference in the White House Rose Garden.  “If we can, that’s great. If we can’t, that’s fine.” After the conference, France, Germany, and Italy issued a joint statement saying that the agreement can’t be negotiated, according to the Associated Press.
Reached at the end of 2015, the Paris deal was one of the most comprehensive climate change agreements ever passed; it is notable because it included countries like China, which pollute heavily but have not signed on to climate deals before. Under the agreement, former President Barack Obama had pledged to reduce US emissions by 26–28 percent of 2005 levels by 2025. But since his inauguration, Trump has initiated the roll back of several regulations, like the Clean Power Plan, meant to achieve those goals.
Advisers had been telling the president that he would benefit from staying with the agreement, according to The Washington Post. Foreign leaders lobbied him during his trip abroad. Apple CEO Tim Cook urged him to reconsider, while Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk tweeted that he’d spoken to Trump weeks ago about the agreement and was “cautiously optimistic.” (Upon hearing that Trump had decided to withdraw from the agreements, Musk tweeted that he was quitting the president’s advisory councils.)  Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner, as well Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, a former chief executive of ExxonMobil, all suggested that he keep the United States in the deal.
Still, a group of 22 Republican senators recently sent a letter to the president urging him to keep his promise. And signs weren’t looking good at the end of the foreign trip, when he refused to publicly support the agreement. (The six other nations then reemphasized their own commitment in a joint statement.)
By pulling out, the US  join two other nations in the UN climate group — Nicaragua and Syria — that don’t take part in the agreement. (Nicaragua didn’t sign the agreement because its leaders thought it’s not strict enough; Syria has been embroiled in a civil war for six years.) China, the world’s top polluter, has vowed to go ahead with the deal regardless of the US’s inclusion, but there’s little doubt that the US pulling out  have big consequences. The United States is the world’s second largest greenhouse gas polluter and  the world’s largest economy. By dropping the deal, it could encourage other countries to leave as well, or perhaps simply not regard the guidelines.
In a statement, Obama said that he believes the United States should “be at the front of the pack” of nations working on curbing climate change. Still, he said he remains confident that despite the withdrawal of the US, “states, cities, and businesses  step up.”
Reactions from business leaders were largely negative. Amazon stated that it continues to support the Paris agreement. HP  affirmed its support for the agreement, adding that “the science [of climate change] is clear, the impacts are serious and the need to act is essential.” Similarly, Brad Smith, the president of Microsoft, tweeted that he was disappointed with Trump’s decision.
Even if fully implemented, the Paris agreement was never going to be a magical solution. The plan would still only reduce emissions by half as much as necessary to prevent a global temperature increase of 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, scientists say. (It is considered crucial to avoid the 3.6 degree temperature increase in order to protect the planet.) But without the cooperation of the US, it now looks weaker than ever.

YouTube is taking new steps today to get a handle on content that might offend advertisers or, conversely, prevent a YouTube creator from monetizing their videos. Several major brands left the platform’s ad program recently to avoid being linked with hateful and offensive videos. And many creators were upset when videos they saw as benign started to be de-monetized.
YouTube has promised to give advertisers greater control over where their ads appear and to give creators a better sense of what they need to avoid if they want their videos to make money. Today the video service is expanding its creator guidelines on what constitutes an “ad-friendly” video, offering up more details about dos and don’ts, and, importantly, adding three new categories of videos that won’t be eligible for advertising.
YouTube is trying to walk a careful line with these new guidelines. The company needs to give brands more assurance that their ads won’t be placed before objectionable content, while  minimizing any negative reaction from popular creators who depend on ad revenue. It’s a necessary dance as YouTube tries to balance the freewheeling nature of creation with all the ad money flowing through its business.
The new guidelines, according to YouTube VP of product management Ariel Bardin, “take a tougher stance” on:
Hateful content: Content that promotes discrimination or disparages or humiliates an individual or group of people on the basis of the individual’s or group’s race, ethnicity, or ethnic origin, nationality, religion, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or other characteristic associated with systematic discrimination or marginalization.
Inappropriate use of family entertainment characters: Content that depicts family entertainment characters engaged in violent, sexual, vile, or otherwise inappropriate behavior, even if done for comedic or satirical purposes.
Incendiary and demeaning content: Content that is gratuitously incendiary, inflammatory, or demeaning. For example, video content that uses gratuitously disrespectful language that shames or insults an individual or group.
The first and second points are straightforward enough. For one, YouTube is getting much stricter about discriminatory content and making an effort to be transparent about it. The second section  makes clear that YouTube plans to crack down on videos that feature recognizable family entertainment characters in unseemly situations.
That third area, though — “incendiary and demeaning content” — might be the hardest for YouTube to incontestably define for both creators and brands. There’s plenty of room for debate over where the “gratuitous” line falls. To that end, YouTube says it’s working to improve the appeals process for creators who object to having a video marked as “not advertising friendly.”
To be clear, many videos that fall under the above descriptions  still be permitted on YouTube — they just won’t be allowed to receive advertising dollars. “We hope this additional information  provide you with more insight into the types of content that brands have told us they don’t want to advertise against and help you to make more informed content decisions,” said Bardin.
For a few minutes on August 21st, the Moon  completely block the Sun for anyone watching the skies along a 70-mile-wide swath of North America from Oregon to South Carolina. The rest of the continent  get to see a partial eclipse lasting a few hours. The big event is being called the Great American Eclipse. But, for anyone looking to not actually be on American soil for it, well, you can apparently watch it from sea.
The Royal Caribbean cruise company is pitching a “brag-worthy adventure to idyllic islands in the Caribbean” where “guests on Oasis of the Seas  be treated to a full slate of eclipse-themed activities.”
Although the partial eclipse  only last for two to three hours, die-hard eclipse fans can extend the experience with an entire week aboard the Oasis of the Seas. There  be “interactive science fun for kids.” You won’t even be able to get away from all the eclipse enthusiasm in the bar: there  be “tasty cocktails” named Cosmic Cosmo and Planetary Punch.
Royal Caribbean promises that the ship  navigate to the “optimal spot” to view the eclipse, which is identified in the press release as the Caribbean Ocean, which isn’t in the eclipse’s direct path. A spokesperson with the cruise company told The Verge that they actually meant the “ship plans to be along the path of the totality during the Eclipse” — where the Moon  completely obscure the Sun for a few minutes. So, as long as the weather cooperates, cruise passengers could get a good look. But, honestly, you could probably see it just as well from land.
Lyft published its first diversity report today, revealing numbers that were slightly better than its rival Uber and the tech industry as a whole. The numbers come as Silicon Valley is facing criticism and numerous lawsuits concerning rampant sexual harassment and an overall lack of gender and ethnic diversity. But does it support the recent claim by Lyft’s president that the app company is “woke?”
Not exactly. Lyft published its report as part of an Obama-era White House pledge signed by 30 tech companies in June 2016 to release annual diversity reports. Uber released its diversity report in March under a cloud of allegations concerning its toxic workplace. Today, Lyft’s numbers show a company that is barely more balanced in terms of gender and racial diversity.
In terms of gender identity, 42 percent of Lyft’s workforce identifies as female, including 36 percent of its leadership team. But those numbers drop precipitously when you look at Lyft’s technical staff: only 18 percent of Lyft’s engineering division identifies as female, including 13 percent of its technical executives.
Overall, 63 percent of Lyft’s staff is white, 19 percent is Asian, 7 percent is Latinx, and 6 percent is black. In the engineering field, 51 percent is white, 38 percent is Asian, 4 percent is Latinx, and 2 percent is black. Lyft’s top executives are overwhelming white: 70 percent, versus 18 percent that is Asian, 5 percent that is Latinx, and 1 percent that is black. Lyft’s engineering leadership is mostly white and Asian: 59 percent and 34 percent, respectively. None of its head engineers are Latinx or black.
Still, Lyft is doing better on gender diversity than its crosstown rival Uber. Only 36 percent of Uber’s workforce identifies as female, compared to Lyft’s 42 percent. But both companies are pretty much overwhelmingly white and Asian. Black and Hispanic employees only make up 13 percent of Lyft’s staff, compared to Uber’s 15 percent. Of course, Lyft’s workforce is a fraction of Uber’s: 1,600 employees, compared to Uber’s 12,000. (Uber is in over 60 countries worldwide, while Lyft only operates in the US.)
In a blog post, Lyft admits that it “has a lot of work to do,” noting that its newly hired head of diversity Tariq Meyers was working with strategy firm Paradigm “to identify opportunities for positive change.” The company says it’s “investing more in programs,” without specifying exactly which programs and how much it plans to spend.
“Releasing our data  hold us accountable, but it’s the actions we take that  make a difference to the people who come to work every day at Lyft,” the company says. “Our diversity data exposes gaps in important areas. So we’re doing something about it.”
Notably, Lyft’s numbers do not include its drivers, who — along with Uber drivers — have been accused of discriminating against female and black customers.

Scientists can now move a mouse’s whiskers, ears, and a paw using just electrodes on the outside of the animal’s head. This new method can stimulate deep parts of the brain without surgery and — if it pans out in humans — it could be very helpful for people with neurological conditions like Parkinson’s, depression, or epilepsy.
The brain has surface regions located near the skull and deep regions further inside, such as the motor cortex, the area of the brain that controls movement. Until now, the only real way to stimulate the regions deeper inside the brain was to cut open the skull and directly implant electrodes. (This is called deep-brain stimulation.) But surgery can be dangerous and the electrodes can cause damage inside the brain. In a study published today in the journal Cell, a team of scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology showed a way to sidestep the dangerous surgery and stimulate the motor cortex from the outside.
To do this, the team took advantage of how neurons process electrical signals. Neurons only activate when they receive low-frequency electricity signals. If high-frequency signals are applied to the brain, the brain just ignores them. “It can’t keep up,” says study co-author Ed Boyden, a cognitive scientist at MIT.
But something interesting happens when you send two high-frequency signals that are just a little bit different, like 3000 hertz and 3001 hertz. Most parts of the brain ignore the signals. But when the two frequencies meet at the target site — in this case, the motor cortex — and interfere with each other, the neurons pay attention. They interpret the difference in frequency as if it were a low-frequency wave. This technique, called “temporal interference,” makes it possible to stimulate just one part of the brain and not all the other parts on the way there.
That’s exactly what the team did. After calculating the right frequencies to target the motor cortex, they sent the two frequencies to the mouse brains. In this way, they made the animal wiggle its ears, whiskers, and a paw.
The technique could potentially help humans with certain conditions. In a disease like Parkinson’s, for instance, the motor cortex sends and receives abnormal electrical signals. This causes people to have tremors and their muscles to weaken. With traditional deep-brain stimulation, the electrode implanted in the brain blocks these abnormal signals, which helps control the tremors for up to five years. Ideally, says Boyden, with the new technique one day you could stimulate a human brain from the outside for a brief amount of time, and have the effects last for the rest of the day or the rest of the week.
“This technique has potential to be an extremely useful tool to both probe and potentially change the functioning of brain regions and brain circuits that are very important to a lot of human illnesses,” says Ben Greenberg, associate director of Providence VA Hospital’s Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology, who was not involved in the study. But he notes that it’s simply “too soon to say” how this stacks against deep-brain stimulation, which has been researched since the 1980s.
There are many questions that need to be answered. We don’t know yet how precise this new method can be; for now, we just know it’s nowhere near as precise as implantable devices. Safety is another concern: early tests showed that this type of stimulation didn’t harm the animals, but more research needs to be done, according to Boyden.
And, of course, the big question is how useful this could be in humans. For one, the human skull is thicker than a mouse’s, which  change the types of frequencies needed. Plus, different people might respond to frequencies differently, says Greenberg. “Even in the mice, there were differences in how responsive their cells were.”
Boyden’s team is already doing more safety experiments with animals, and early studies with human volunteers. “We want to be as careful as possible, of course,” Boyden says, “but the good news is that since we’re building from decades of research on electric fields, so it’s not like we’re starting from scratch.”


My Neighbor Totoro, Hayao Miyazaki’s animated classic about two young girls and the friendly spirit-monsters near their new home, is getting turned into a theme park. Chunichu Web reported yesterday (in a piece translated by Anime News Network) that Studio Ghibli plans to let fans explore Totoro’s world in a park set to open in Japan in 2020.
The attraction  be built in Echo Park, located in Nagoya, Japan’s Aichi prefecture. According to Variety, Studio Ghibli producer Toshio Suzuki and Aichi governor Hideaki Omura made the public statement about plans for the park. Those plans are reportedly an expansion of a previous collaboration that brought a recreation of Satsuki and Mei’s house to the park in 2005 for the World’s Fair.
My Neighbor Totoro, released in 1988, is easily one of Ghibli’s most beloved properties — the studio has taken the Totoro character as its mascot, and incorporated him into the studio’s logo. Totoro is  one of Ghibli’s most consistent sources of profit. Merchandising for the film has become a long-lasting international phenomenon, and sales of Totoro products supported the studio during its early years, according to an official history originally posted on Ghibli’s website.
There’s no word yet on whether any other of the studio’s properties  become attractions, but it’s probably safe to say park visitors won’t see the demons from Princess Mononoke recreated in real life anytime soon.
The Wachowskis’ Sense8 has been canceled by Netflix after two seasons and one holiday special. Cindy Holland, VP of original content at Netflix, confirmed the cancelation in a statement published on the platform’s press blog.
This marks Netflix’s second major series cancelation in as many weeks, with Baz Luhrmann’s incredibly expensive musical drama The Get Down (season 1 had an estimated budget of $120 million) canceled last week. Luhrmann cited a personal conflict between his status as showrunner and a preexisting film directing contract with Sony for that cancelation, but Netflix CEO Reed Hastings implied at Code Conference yesterday that the show had  fallen short of viewership expectations. There has  been speculation that the relationship between Netflix and Sony Pictures Television has somewhat soured.
Sense8’s budget was  pretty massive, estimated at about $9 million per episode for its second season. (For comparison, Game of Thrones’ early episodes were estimated at $6 million, and it wasn’t until season 6 that it broke an average of $10 million per episode.) The statement from Netflix does not cite a specific reason for the cancelation, stating only “[Sense8] is everything we dreamed it would be: bold, emotional, stunning, kick ass, and outright unforgettable. Never has there been a more truly global show with an equally diverse and international cast and crew[.]”
Statement from Netflix on the cancelation of #Sense8 pic.twitter.com/w42kvlWypF
Though unexplained, the cancelation doesn’t come as a total surprise, as fans have speculated about the lack of a season 3 pickup announcement for weeks. Until recently, however, cancelations of Netflix original series were few and far between, with the only notable examples being Hemlock Grove, Marco Polo, and Bloodline. It seems Netflix is getting more aggressive about cutting its losses when shows don’t become major hits, in keeping with Hastings’ comment yesterday that he has been personally pushing Netflix’s original content team to take bigger risks and let things fail.
We’ve reached out to Netflix for comment and  update if we hear back.
After a lot of speculation, Korean automaker Hyundai finally pulled the wraps off of its first mass-produced electric bus this week. It’s called the Elec City. It has a range of 180 miles, thanks to a 256kWh battery pack, according to Hyundai. A report from the Yonhap news agency says the bus can  be fully charged in just over an hour. The company plans to launch the bus in 2018.
While that’s more than double what had been rumored for Hyundai, it’s still a far cry from the massive 660kWh capacity of the Catalyst E2, the newest bus from American manufacturer Proterra. The Catalyst E2 supposedly gets 350 miles of street driving on a single charge, and maybe more with some highway driving mixed in. Plus, Proterra’s new bus  hit the road in 2017.
It’s not clear if Hyundai would ever bring its bus to North America, but if it did, Proterra wouldn’t be the only competition. Chinese manufacturer BYD has sold buses in California. Canadian company GreenPower has a small foothold as well. Tesla CEO Elon Musk even flirted with the idea, though it appears that the project could be on hold while he works on tunneling under Los Angeles. Adoption rates could go up as electric buses get better and cheaper, too. Despite the fact that they’re about twice as expensive as their diesel counterparts in the early going, a recent study from Columbia University estimates that they could save cities money over the long haul.
Hyundai, like many other automakers, has been slowly increasing the number of electric (and hydrogen) vehicles it makes in recent years. Its most visible offering is the Ioniq, a sedan that Hyundai sells in three variants: hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and all-electric. The company has  promised that a long-range electric vehicle is coming in 2018.


Once upon a time on Mars, there was a crater that had a massive lake that may have hosted life. Now researchers are saying that a whole variety of organisms could have flourished there. Sure, that life was probably just microbial, but this is another exciting step toward understanding just how habitable Mars may have been around 3.5 billion years ago.
Petrified mud that was once at the bottom of the lake suggests that, at the time, the lake had different chemical environments that could have hosted different types of microbes. The rocks  show that the Red Planet’s climate may have been more dynamic than we thought, going from cold and dry to warm and wet, before eventually drying out.
We still don’t know whether life once existed on Mars when the planet was warmer and had liquid water. But today’s findings, published in Science, give a much more nuanced and detailed picture of what this area of Mars could have looked like through time. The paper’s results  have to be tested by analyzing more rocks in the crater. But it could have big implications on how we think about the Red Planet’s climate and how habitable Mars was.
“The data and interpretations presented here provide necessary clues to answer the big open question: ‘What happened to the water on Mars?’” Isaac Smith, a postdoctoral researcher at the Planetary Science Institute, who was not involved in the research, writes in an email to The Verge. Smith called the findings "impressive."
Since landing inside the 93-mile-wide Gale Crater in 2012, NASA’s Curiosity rover has been drilling and analyzing rock samples. The rover has discovered the chemical ingredients — like carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, and sulfur — needed for life as we know it on Earth. “The lake had all the right stuff for microbial life to live in,” says study co-author Joel Hurowitz, a geochemist and planetary scientist at Stony Brook University.
Curiosity is currently climbing up a three-mile-high layered mountain inside the crater. This mountain, called Mount Sharp, is believed to be the result of mud and sediments carried through time by rivers into the lake, where it eventually petrified into mudstone. Once Mars dried out, wind carved those layers of mud into the shape of a mountain, says study co-author Ashwin Vasavada, a Mars Science Laboratory project scientist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
The authors of today’s study analyzed the chemical and mineral composition of the mudstones that were drilled by Curiosity, to see what they could reveal about the lake and the ancient Martian climate. Certain minerals in certain rocks were shown to have interacted with oxygen, while others much less so. This is because some sediments were in shallow waters, where there was more oxygen, while others were in deep waters, where there was very little oxygen, according to the authors. The same happens in deep lakes on Earth, Vasavada says — deep down, there’s not much oxygen.
“This is a new level of detail in terms of our understanding of the chemical environment in this lake on Mars,” says Hurowitz. “It gives us a much more complete picture of the habitability of this lake.”
The findings basically show that the lake in Gale Crater had different areas — some rich in oxygen, some not — that could have supported different types of microbes. Some microbes thrive in low-oxygen environments, while others require more oxygen to survive. Reactions between oxygen and other chemicals  provide forms of energy certain microbes can feed off of. It’s further proof that, billions of years ago, the lake could have hosted life.
“Liquid water is important for habitability, but providing an energy source is  important,” Janice Bishop, a chemist and planetary scientist at the SETI institute, who was not involved in the research, writes in an email to The Verge.
By analyzing the mudstones, the researchers were  able to figure out the types of climate in which the rocks formed before being transported to the lake. The chemical composition of the older sediments was altered less than in the younger sediments. That means that the older sediments were formed at a time when the climate was cold and dry, while the more recent ones were formed when the climate was warmer and wetter. This suggests that Mars’ climate — at least in this region of the planet — was changing over the years, going from cold and dry to warm and wet.
That seems counterintuitive, since the current idea we have of Mars’ climate is that it went from being warm, with liquid water, to cold and arid, as it is today. The findings suggest the story is more complicated than that, with wet and dry periods that possibly fluctuated through thousands or even millions of years. “This is going a step further, saying that yes... the climate transitions are more complex than we thought,”  says Kristen Bennett, a postdoctoral research associate at Northern Arizona University who studies Martian sedimentary geology, who was not involved in the research.
The study has some limitations. It’s only about roughly 330 feet of sediment layers in one corner of Gale Crater, says Bennett. It  represents one interpretation of what could have happened to the sediments, but it’s definitely not the final word. As the study points out, rocks and sediments are altered by many things — like where they’re from, how they interact with the river water that’s transporting them, and how acidic the lake water is, says Bethany Ehlmann, a research scientist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, who did not take part in the research. So there are many ways we can interpret, say, why certain minerals in the sediments show interaction with oxygen. Maybe it doesn’t have to do with the lake water, but with groundwater infiltrating the rocks, Ehlmann says.
So more research  need to happen to prove that the lake had different chemical environments and that Mars’ climate fluctuated as widely as today’s findings suggest. But as Curiosity keeps going up Mount Sharp, it is collecting more sediment samples. Several tens of meters of layers  be analyzed in the new few months by the rover, so within a year, “we’ll have a chance to test the conclusions of this paper,” Ehlmann says.
Still, if confirmed, today’s findings could change how we interpret the planet’s climate and just how habitable ancient Mars was. In fact, one suggestion from the paper — that Mars had warmer and wetter climates that permitted liquid water in lakes as recently as about 3 billion years ago — is pretty significant, since that’s later than some scientists thought. “It pushes the existence of liquid water closer to the present,”  Ehlmann says. And the closer we get to understanding what ancient Mars was like, the closer we come to answering the big question: whether the Red Planet actually hosted life.
Facebook is overhauling how its photo albums work to let users drop in virtually any post from the social network to save for posterity. This includes of course photos and videos, but now text posts and check-ins as well. The company is  making it easier to add friends as contributors to create shared albums, and adding the ability to display a “featured album” prominently on your profile. The idea is to turn the sometimes forgotten photo albums feature into a way to store memories of all types.
Some users may be hesitant to store photos on Facebook that are not being deliberately edited and shared to a wider audience, as opposed to somewhere slightly more private like Google Photos or more curated like Instagram. Facebook it seems recognizes this, and the company wants users to think of albums as a place to dump scraps of daily life with a focus on which friends were involved and what you were doing with them.
This could  be seen as a way to make Facebook sharing more casual, in the vein of Snapchat, especially given the success of the more lightweight and well designed Instagram Stories feature that disappears photos and videos after just 24 hours. With these updates, Facebook  now even let you subscribe to a friend’s album to receive notifications when updates are added, making it more of a personalized feed within the broader app itself. The company says the feature  be rolling out on the Android and desktop versions of Facebook starting today, with iOS coming later.

Qualcomm loves its charging standards, which have become just as much a selling point for its Snapdragon chipsets as the processor power. Now, just a mere six months after announcing Quick Charge 4, which boosted charging times and safety considerably over its predecessors, Qualcomm is introducing the new Quick Charge 4+ standard.
Unlike previous standards, which required a new chipset, 4+ is something device and accessory manufacturers can implement by adding three enhancements to Quick Charge 4-compliant devices:
Qualcomm claims devices that implement this standard can get charging times up to 15 percent faster than Quick Charge 4, and  charge up to 30 percent more efficiently — an especially nice perk if you're charging from a battery pack. Charging   be up to 3 degrees Celsius (about 5 degrees Fahrenheit) cooler.
Unfortunately, you most likely won't get these features with a software patch to existing devices, since these are mostly hardware enhancements. So far there's one device confirmed to include 4+: the just-announced Nubia Z17, a Snapdragon 835 phone with a 3200mAh battery.
Lego just opened preorders for Lego Boost, the simple programmable robotics kit it announced early this year. The $159.99 kit includes two motors, a color and distance sensor, and the parts needed to build a Lego cat, robot, guitar, vehicle, or imitation 3D printer. Kids can control their creations with an Android or iOS app, using a basic drag-and-drop programming system. Preorders  begin shipping in late July.
Boost is one of several options for programmable Lego. Outside the well-known Lego Mindstorms, there’s  the educational WeDo platform, as well as newly announced support for Apple’s educational programming app, Swift Playgrounds. Boost’s text-free drag-and-drop programming is designed for younger children than Mindstorms is, and it’s meant to be more for play than education. We tried it at CES, and while it’s far more limited than something like Mindstorms (and costs a lot of money), it’s  pretty fun!
This new LEGO set makes it dead easy to program a robot cat.
Google is issuing an update to Sheets today that’ll make it easier for users to visualize their data. People can already use Explore in Sheets to ask questions and receive data in return, like “which person has the top score?” Now, you can ask Google to make a chart or graph. So, for example, you could type “histogram of 2017 customer ratings” or “bar chart for ice cream sales” and receive that visual image in return. You can then instantly insert it into your sheet.
Today’s update   let you sync data to tables from your Sheets to Google Docs or Slides. You can copy and paste your Sheets data to Docs or Slides and tap “update” to keep it synced. A new charts sidebar is launching, too, that allows for the creation of 3D charts. It’s available on iPhones and iPads, as well.
The print interface is  being refreshed so you can adjust margins, select scale and alignment options, or repeat frozen rows and columns before sending to the printer. Spreadsheet updates aren’t always the most exciting, but honestly, less time spent making charts is a positive for everyone.
This should have been a big launch for Google.
The release of the Samsung Chromebook Pro was going to be the opening salvo in 2017's battle of the cheap computers. It went on sale on May 28th, priced at $549.99. It's a handsome and thin touchscreen laptop that looks like it costs twice as much as it does. Because it  comes with a stylus and performs at speeds you don't usually get on Chrome OS, it should have been an inexpensive flagship that can prove that Chromebooks aren't just for students and couches, but could be your main computer.
The operative word there is "should." Because after a grand unveiling at CES, reality hit: the hardware wasn't finished in time, and the software still isn't finished. Even though it's now on sale and shipping to customers, the software has a memory bug that crashes the computer if you push it too hard. Until Google fixes it, you should hold off on buying this laptop. I’m holding off on reviewing it, too.
I found that if I open more than a dozen or so tabs or web apps, the Chromebook Pro can become unstable — the whole device  freeze or even restart. The problem is intermittent and seems worse if you happen to open an Android app or had opened and closed one since you last rebooted.
Although Android apps are still in beta, they’re available for regular users out of the box. In fact, one of the core features of the Chromebook Pro is annotating images in the Android version of Google Keep. That means you can’t use the key differentiating feature of the Chromebook Pro without causing crashes.
To be clear, the bug rears its head even if you never open an Android app — it just seems to be worse when you do. Until Google solves these problems, you can only use a fraction of the Chromebook Pro's capabilities without risking a freeze-up. Google says it’s working on the software fix.
What I should have been doing this week is judging this laptop by a new standard: standing toe-to-toe against Windows 10 S and the iPad as a complete vision for the next generation of simplified, secure, yet nevertheless powerful computing.
Instead of doing that, I’m doing this: telling you that the Chromebook Pro was delayed, that the main thing we were hoping it would do (Android apps) is still months away from being any good, and the people who ordered it on day one are going to experience a critical bug that breaks their experience until Google issues a patch.
Earlier this month, I wrote that Google prefers slow and steady iteration to flashy, change-the-world product releases. That slow and steady approach is admirable in its way and may ultimately win the race for Chrome OS. But if you're going to take a measured approach to releasing products, you absolutely shouldn't be tripping over your own feet as you do it.
We’ll update this article and post a review of the Chromebook Pro when Google issues the patch.
Grado, a Brooklyn-based headphone manufacturer, has been pleasing audiophile ears for decades now with clean, unsweetened audio. To support the kids these days with their fancy iPods and Walkmans, the company has released a few lower-end and even in-ear models that are competitive on price while staying true to Grado sound priorities — even if build quality is a bit suspect at times.
But now it's time to return to Grado's roots: all the sound that money can buy. The PS2000e are Grado's new "flagship" headphones, and they’ve been in development at the company for two years. Unlike their predecessor, the PS1000e, which wrapped an inner chamber of mahogany with metal, the PS2000e have a maple wood core. This $2,695 beast  has a new driver design and a new diaphragm geometry, all with the purpose of making the music as uncolored as possible.
Grado claims it put "all the best stuff" in its new flagship, and leaned on "three generations of Grado family" to make its best pair of headphones yet.  they sound $1,000 better than the PS1000e? I wouldn't mind finding out.
The PS2000e are available now.
Niantic says it’s making lots of money off sponsored Pokémon Go stops and particularly cashed out during the height of the game’s popularity last year. In interviews with Brazil’s Globo paper and TechCrunch, Niantic said that it charges anywhere from 15 to 50 cents for each visitor that the game draws to a sponsored location. There’s some uncertainty about the exact cost of a visit, but the figures imply that Niantic could be making millions of dollars off players.
Niantic VP of strategic partnerships Mathieu de Fayet told Globo that its partners pay 15 cents for every visitor, and that the company has already attracted 500 million visitors around the world. Every activated McDonald’s store in Japan attracted up 2,000 visitors a day, he says.
When Techcrunch double-checked these numbers with the company, Niantic said that in actuality, sponsorships cost up to 50 cents per unique visit. Using Fayet’s 15 cent pricing and his 500 million visitors figure, that could translate to $75 million in revenue. At 50 cents per visit, that revenue would jump to $250 million.
In December, Niantic announced that it was partnering with Starbucks to turn 7,800 stores across the US into pokéstops or gyms. That deal coincided with the debut of a Pokémon Go-themed Frappuccino, which was designed to entice players. Sprint is  partnering with Niantic to turn 10,500 stores into gyms and pokéstops.
It isn’t clear how popular the game is following its viral release last summer, but still, over the past few months, Niantic launched new pokémon, debuted the game on the Apple Watch, and expanded to new markets. Pokémon Go’s publisher, The Pokémon Company, says following the release of this game and Game Freak’s Pokémon Sun and Moon, its profits rose to $143.3 million — nearly 26 times the profit it made the previous year. Clearly neither Niantic nor The Pokémon Company are going to let Pokémon Go die yet, especially if everyone’s still profiting big time.
Tesla fired the female engineer who earlier this year publicly made claims about “unwanted and pervasive harassment” at the electric carmaker, according to The Guardian. Tesla says it was justified in firing the engineer, AJ Vandermeyden, because her accusations were false, but Vandermeyden’s lawyers allege that it amounts to retaliation.
Vandermeyden, who was hired by Tesla in April 2013, said she found herself the subject of “unwanted and pervasive harassment” by the mostly male staff, including “inappropriate language, whistling, and cat calls,” according to the lawsuit. Despite performing work “equal in skill, effort, and responsibility,” Vandermeyden claims she was paid less than her male colleagues. Vandermeyden alleges she raised concerns about “inadequacies in the quality testing of cars,” but that she was ignored by her male superiors, and her attempts to implement solutions were thwarted.
Vandermeyden filed her lawsuit against Tesla last fall, but only spoke out publicly last February in an article published in The Guardian. At the time, she said she was concerned that the lawsuit would result in her eventual dismissal.
Tesla confirmed Vandermeyden’s firing in a statement to The Verge, saying it had conducted an independent, third-party review of her claims and determined that they were false. “Despite repeatedly receiving special treatment at the expense of others, Ms. Vandermeyden nonetheless chose to pursue a miscarriage of justice by suing Tesla and falsely attacking our company in the press,” a spokesperson said. “After we carefully considered the facts on multiple occasions and were absolutely convinced that Ms. Vandermeyden's claims were illegitimate, we had no choice but to end her employment at Tesla.”
But the story is unlikely to end there for Tesla. Vandermeyden’s lawyer told The Guardian that the automaker’s decision to fire her client “proves our case. It’s clear retaliation.” She added: “Somebody is trying to instill in employees that when they speak out about matters they are legally allowed to speak out about, they too  be fired.”
Gabrielle Toledano, Tesla’s new global head of HR, informed Vandermeyden of her termination personally. Vandermeyden was fired because she was “behaving in what the evidence indicates is a fundamentally false and misleading manner, not as a result of retaliation for the lawsuit,” the spokesperson said. “It is impossible to trust anyone after they have behaved in such a manner and therefore continued employment is  impossible.”
Vandermeyden’s story came to light at a time when Silicon Valley was reeling from numerous allegations of sexual discrimination and gender inequality. An ex-Uber engineer’s claims of sexism and harassment went viral in February, prompting Uber to launch an internal investigation. And in a separate lawsuit, the Department of Labor accused Google of systemic underpaying of its female employees.


I have a confession to make: I like books. This shouldn’t be a surprise to anyone who’s followed this monthly list, but I don’t mean just reading them. I’m fascinated by the form of a book, the book as a technology, and an object that’s changed how we transmit information from one person to another.
Recently, I came across a really interesting book put out by the Library of Congress: The Card Catalog: Books, Cards, and Literary Treasures. It’s a history of the card catalog, and it proves to be a really interesting look at not only the system itself, but  the history of public libraries in America. Plus, there are lots of really gorgeous pictures of catalog cards, which makes this book a delight to flip through if reading about the history isn’t your thing.
The card catalog system is one of those things that you don’t ever really think about, but while it seems like an obvious organizational method today, its creation was somewhat controversial at the time. More than that, it helped to cement the purpose of the Library of Congress as a resource for the nation’s libraries, not just a repository for the nation’s books.
The summer is the busy time for publishing, and accordingly, there are a ton of new books that  undoubtably end up in the Library of Congress — or at the very least, on your bookshelf.
Valerian: The Complete Collection, Vol 1. by Pierre Christin and Jean-Claude Mezieres
Luc Besson is set to release his adaptation of Pierre Christian’s French comic Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets in July, but if you’ve been intrigued by the trailers and can’t wait to check it out, the entire comic series is being rereleased in a series of omnibus editions, the first of which comes out today. This volume contains the first two books: The City of Shifting Waters and The Empire of a Thousand Planets. The book  includes some bonus features: interviews with the author, artist, and Besson.
Beren and Luthien by J.R.R. Tolkien
Tolkien’s estate has been steadily releasing new material from his papers, and the latest is one of the earliest stories in his Middle-earth series: Beren and Luthien. It’s a romance between two characters, Beren and Lúthien, and it is based loosely on Tolkien’s own relationship with his wife Edith.
A Peace Divided by Tanya Huff
In this second installment of Tanya Huff’s Peacekeeper series, Gunnery Sergeant Torin Kerr has walked away from the Confederation Marine Corps after learning what she was fighting for. But she’s not abandoning her mission: she’s assembled a group of loyal friends to take on missions that the Corps wouldn’t. When an archeological team is taken hostage, Torin’s team is sent in, only to find that their mission is far more complicated than previously thought. Publisher’s Weekly calls the book a “fast-paced thriller bristling with treachery and intrigue.”
Necessary Monsters by Richard A. Kirk
A convicted thief and bibliophile, Lumsden Moss, escaped from prison, and found an opportunity to steal a rare book from the man who put him away. Unfortunately, that’s painted a target on his back from some very bad people, and he’s now on the run. The book contains some secrets from a cursed and long-lost island, in a world where magic and technology are inseparable.
The Rebellion’s Last Traitor by Nik Korpon
Decades of war has shattered Eitan City, and to help restore order, the Tathadann Party rewrites history by outlawing the past. One man, Henraek, is a memory thief, stealing memories from civilians, until he harvests a memory of his own wife’s death. Now, he’s going to do whatever it takes to discover the truth about her killing, even if it means turning on the people he was most loyal to.
Supreme Villainy: A Behind-the-Scenes Look at the Most (In)Famous Supervillain Memoir Never Published by King Oblivion and Matt D. Wilson
King Oblivion, PhD is the most famous supervillains in the world, and as the CEO of the International Society of Supervillains, he’s responsible for Nixon’s election, the theft of Japan (the entire country), the Star Wars prequel trilogy, and quite a bit more. Author Matt D. Wilson discovered Oblivion’s moldering manifesto in one of his lairs, and with a bit of editing, has published them into a tell-all about the late author’s life.
The Sandcastle Empire by Kayla Olson
Eden’s life was easy before the war. But in 2049, the militant Wolfpack gang controls the Earth and its resources, and Eden knows the location of the last neutral place left, Sanctuary Island. She escapes a labor camp and travels to the island, where she meets others who resist the Wolves. But when her friend goes missing, she discovers that the Sanctuary is more dangerous than it appears. The film rights for the book have already been snapped up by Leonardo DiCaprio.
The Refrigerator Monologues by Catherynne M. Valente
Catherynne Valente has written a number of really unique and interesting novels, and in this latest, she turns her attention to the women of superhero comics. This book is a series of linked stories from the wives and girlfriends of superheroes, as well as female heroes and sidekicks, who have been kicked out of the way to help their male counterpart’s story move forward.
The Sacred Era by Yoshio Aramaki, translated by Baryon Tensor Posadas
In the 1970s, Yoshio Aramaki wrote one of the best-known works of Japanese science fiction, The Sacred Era. Set in a post-apocalyptic world, a student named K journeys to the capital of the Holy Empire to take The Sacred Examination, which  qualify him for metaphysical research service in the court. He’s assigned to a secret department, which sends him on the path of an executed heretic on an interplanetary journey.
The Black Elfstone by Terry Brooks
Terry Brooks is bringing his epic Shannara series to a close with a four-part mini-series, The Fall of Shannara. The Black Elfstone is the first installment, and sees an unknown enemy threatening the peace that has lasted for generations. A party is dispatched to investigate this threat and to figure out how to save the Four Lands.
Wilders by Brenda Cooper
The first installment of the new Project Earth series, Wilders follows Coryn iams, who grew up in the megacity of Seacouver. While everything is provided in Seacouver, she’s unhappy. So when her parents commit suicide, she decides to search for her sister, who left the city to join a “rewilding” crew that works to restore the land. When she leaves the city, Coryn finds that life is far more dangerous than she expected, and discovers a plot that could threaten her home.
The Space Between the Stars by Anne Corlett
In this debut novel, Jamie Allenby just wants to go to space. She emigrates from Earth and finds work on a distant frontier planet, coping with the loneliness of space when a virus decimates the local population. A garbled message from home gives her some hope that someone from her past might still be alive, and along with a band of survivors, they return home to find that in their absence, they’ve changed just as much as Earth has.
Prey of the Gods by Nicky Drayden
South Africa has a promising future in Nicky Drayden’s debut novel, Prey of the Gods. People have personal robots, the poor are helped by renewable energy initiatives, and genetic engineering has opened up a huge industry in the region. There are some problems on the horizon, however, such as a new hallucinogenic drug and an AI uprising. It’s up to a powerful Zulu girl, a mind-reading teenager, a pop singer, and a politician to help save the country.
Soleri by Michael Johnston
Michael Johnston’s new epic fantasy draws from Egyptian history. In it, the ruling family of the Soleri Empire hasn’t been seen for centuries, but they rule the four kingdoms with a tight grip. When an expected eclipse doesn’t occur, political infighting  begin to tear apart a dynasty that’s stood for millennia.
The Changeling by Victor LaValle
Victor LaValle made a splash recently with horror novella The Ballad of Black Tom. His latest novel begins with a new father, Apollo Kagwa, dreaming of his childhood. When his wife abruptly vanishes, he goes on a quest to find her, which leads him to fantastic places that connect back to his own missing father. Kirkus Reviews gave it a coveted star rating, saying that “LaValle has successfully delivered a tale of wonder and thoughtful exploration of what it means to be a parent.”
Raven Stratagem by Yoon Ha Lee
Yoon Ha Lee’s debut novel Ninefox Gambit earned a pair of Hugo and Nebula nominations, and its follow-up, Raven Stratagem, picks up right after its end. Captain Kel Cheris has summoned Shuos Jedao, a long-dead general, to put down a rebellion, only to be possessed by the ghost. At the same time, aliens known as the Hafn are invading, and Jedao might be the only person who can stop them. Lee’s take on space opera and military science fiction was intriguingly different, and this new book looks just as exciting. Publisher’s Weekly awarded the book a star rating, calling it “a stunning sequel,” saying that it “contains a satisfying mixture of interstellar battles, politics, intrigue, and arcane technology.”
Down Among the Sticks and Bones by Seanan McGuire
McGuire recently earned a Nebula Award and a Hugo nomination for her novella Every Heart A Doorway, which is part of her Wayward Children series. This is the story of what happened to Jack and Jill before they arrived at Eleanor West’s Home for Wayward Children. Jacqueline is quiet and police, while Jillian is a thrill-seeker. As children, they discover an impossible staircase and step into a fantastic world complete with vampires and mad scientists. The novella earned a star rating from Publisher’s Weekly, which described the novel as an “exquisitely written fairy tale ... about the choices that can alter the course of a life forever.”
Want by Cindy Pon
Set in a near-future Taipei, Jason Zhou lives in a world where only the wealthy can afford to stay alive, protected by suits from pollution and disease. He’s resolved to change things after his mother dies. Along with a group of friends, he infiltrates the ranks of the wealthy in an attempt to destroy the Jin Corporation, which manufactures the suits that the rich rely on. Along the way, he falls for the daughter of the company’s CEO, Daiyu, and he’s forced to choose between his heart and his values.
Cormorant Run by Lilith Saintcrow
Years ago, there was an event — something that opened up a void, killing everyone inside of it. Those who enter are known as Rifters, who often come back with fantastic technologies. Svinga is one such Rifter, and she’s hauled out of prison to search for a legendary piece of technology, the Cormorant. It’s a dangerous mission, but she has plans of her own.
Slaves of the Switchboard of Doom by Bradley W. Schenck
This novel imagines the future as predicted in the 1939 World Fair, complete with mad scientists, robots, rocket engineers, and space pirates. It’s an homage to the era of pulp fiction, and when the Info-Slate switchboard operators are abruptly fired, Nola Gardner hires freelance adventurer Kelvin “Dash” Kent to find out why. When they dig deeper, they find that there’s a plot in play that threatens the entire city of Retropolis.
Our Dark Duet by Victoria Schwab
In this sequel to Victoria Schwab’s novel This Savage Song, Kate Harker is a monster hunter who was thrown together with a monster named August Flynn. Six months later, the war between humanity and monsters has come, and the two are pitted against one another. However, there’s a new, terrifying monster that’s emerged from the shadows, one that  test them all.
The Witch Who Came In From The Cold by Lindsay Smith, Max Gladstone, Cassandra Rose Clarke, Ian Tregillis, and Michael Swanwick
Serial Box is a publisher that’s been releasing serialized stories online for a couple of years now, and their latest, The Witch Who Came In From The Cold, is an intriguing spy thriller set at the height of the Cold War. Now collected into a single volume, the story follows spies and sorcerers in 1970s Prague, holding the balance of the East and West in their hands. Publisher’s Weekly gave the book a star rating, noting that the individual “installments are easy to read one at a time, but the tangles of alliances, secrets, and shocking double-crosses  have readers up all night mumbling, ‘Just one more.’”
The Rise and Fall of D.O.D.O.: A Novel by Neal Stephenson and Nicole Galland
Neal Stephenson has teamed up with historical novelist Nicole Galland (they previously worked on Mongoliad) for a new novel: The Rise and Fall of D.O.D.O. Set in the near future, Melisandre Stokes, a linguistics and language expert, is approached by the military to translate some old documents. What they contain is earth-shattering: they prove that magic existed before the scientific revolution, and that the industrial revolution essentially weakened magic. The Department of Diachronic Operations has a plan and a device: they want to bring magic back, and to send an operative back in time to ensure that magic never went away in the first place. Kirkus Reviews gave the book a star rating, saying that the book is a “departure for both authors and a pleasing combination of much appeal to fans of speculative fiction.”
Virology by Ren Warom
In this follow-up to Ren Warom’s Escapology, Shock Pao opened up the virtual world known as the Slip, and with some stolen tech, he’s the one in charge of the world’s systems. That’s put a target on his back, and he’s running out of places to hide.
The Strange Case of the Alchemist's Daughter by Theodora Goss
Theodora Goss is an acclaimed short story writer, and in her debut novel The Strange Case of the Alchemist's Daughter, she mashes up a bunch of classic science fiction characters. Mary Jekyll, daughter of Dr. Henry Jekyll, is orphaned, and she decides to go after her father’s murderer, Edward Hyde. She comes across Hyde’s daughter Diana, and with the help of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, she finds other women who were created through experiments: Beatrice Rappaccini, Catherin Moreau, and Justine Frankenstein. Along the way, she comes across a secret society of mad scientists, and it’s time for the monsters to take on their creators.
Transformation by James Gunn
James Gunn (not the director of Guardians of the Galaxy) is one of the last authors from the original golden age of science fiction, and with Transformation, he brings to a close a trilogy that he opened with Transcendental and Transgalactic. Riley and Asha crossed the galaxy, discovered the Transcendental Machine, and have been turned into something more than human. The worlds at the end of the Federation have gone quiet, and they’re dispatched to investigate. Along with a planetary AI, a Federation agent, and a member of a group bent on destroying the AI, they have to come together to fend off a more powerful threat than the Transcendentals. Clarkesworld Magazine spoke with Gunn about the series last year, if you want to know more.
Indigo by Charlaine Harris, Christopher Golden, Jonathan Maberry, Kelley Armstrong, Kat Richardson, Seanan McGuire, Tim Lebbon, Cherie Priest, James A. Moore, and Mark Morris
What stands out about Indigo is the fact that it was written by 11 separate authors. The collaborative novel follows Investigative reporter Nora Hesper who moonlights as Indigo, a vigilante who can manipulate shadows. She’s after a cult called the Children of Phonos, and after one battle, she learns a secret from a dying cultist that makes her question her own origins.
Mapping the Interior by Stephen Graham Jones
Last month, we posted an excerpt from Stephen Graham Jones’ upcoming novella, and we’re really excited to dig into it. The story is about a 15-year-old boy who catches a glimpse of someone he thinks is his mysteriously deceased father. When he investigates, he discovers that his house is much bigger and more dangerous than he imagined. Publisher’s Weekly says that “the immediacy of Jones’s fiction is wonderfully refreshing and not to be missed.”
Shattered Minds by Laura Lam
Laura Lam returns to her futuristic world of Pacifica, which we last saw in her novel False Hearts. Carina was a biohacker who became disillusioned with her work on brain recording and the disturbing things she saw. She quits and becomes addicted to Zeal, and acts out horrific fantasies in the digital dream world. When a co-worker sends her pictures of a murdered girl and is then killed by her former employer, Carina has to track down the clue to the murder, a case that could have a profound impact on herself and the world.
The Last Good Man by Linda Nagata
One of my favorite trilogies of all time is Linda Nagata’s three The Red novels, a near-future, military science fiction series. She’s returning to military SF with The Last Good Man, about former Army pilot True Brighton. Brighton is employed at a private military company called Requisite Operations, which uses robots, artificial intelligence, and big data to enhance soldiers in the field. When she makes a scientific breakthrough, it leaves her questioning everything. Publisher’s Weekly gave the book a coveted star rating, saying that the book is a “thrilling novel that lays bare the imminent future of warfare.”
Godblind by Anna Stephens
A thousand ago, the Mireces were exiled from Rilpor for worshipping the bloodthirsty Red Gods. When Rillirin, an escaped Mireces slave, arrives at the border, she threatens to undo the life that Watcher Dom Templeson has set up, letting his followers learn some of his darkest secrets. And as political tensions within Rilpor flare, the Mireces are plotting to return.
Unbreakable by  McIntosh
 McIntosh has written some of my favorite science fiction novels, and for his latest, Unrbeakable, he’s turning to self-publishing. Celia has never left the walls of her town: all she knows of it is that there’s an audience out there that come in once a week to watch her and her fellow residents attempt to break world records. A friend of hers is dying, and she escapes to help him. Aided by a mysterious stranger and a hostile clown, she’s going to be pushed to her limits in a strange new world.
The Waking Land by Callie Bates
In this debut novel from Callie Bates, a girl named Elanna Valtai grew up in the court of King Antoine, a hostage to keep her father in check. She discovers that she has fantastic powers: she can make flowers grow in her hands, and more. However, magic has been forbidden ever since her home was conquered by the Paladis Empires two centuries ago. When the King is murdered, she flees to her homeland when she’s accused, only to find that that she no longer recognizes her home.
The Bones of the Earth by Rachel Dunne
The next entry in Rachel Dunne’s Bound Gods series, a priest named Joros has assembled a team of fighters to win the coming fight for control of the world and its mortal residents.  In the preceding novel, In the Shadow of the Gods, Joros and his company burned the hand of one of the evil twin gods, Fratarro, and they’re dealing with the outcome. As they lick their wounds, Joros has to try and hold the group together, because things are going to get much harder from here on out.
Spoonbenders by Daryl Gregory
Daryl Gregory’s has written some fantastic novels in his career, and his next looks to be just as interesting. Teddy Telemachus conned his way into a classified governmental study about telekinesis, where he met his wife, Maureen McKinnon, a real psychic. They marry, have children, and make their way around the country as performers. Then, everything changes. After withdrawing from the public eye, they’re forced to use their powers to protect themselves from criminals, the government, and the general public.
Escape Velocity by Jason M. Hough
Jason Hough’s novel Injection Burn came out earlier this week, but you won’t have long to wait for its sequel: Escape Velocity comes out at the end of June. In the first novel, Skyler Luiken is the captain of a starship headed to a distant planet to make it through the Swarm Blockage and rescue them. Along the way, they discover fellow ship captain Gloria Tsandi and her crews on the same mission.
In this second novel, they (spoilers) make their way through the Blockage, but but now they have to contend with enemies on the ground, and the return back to Earth.
Everyone's a Aliebn When Ur a Aliebn Too by Jomny Sun
An alien lands on Earth and finds that he’s incredibly lonely, and works to make himself at home when he realizes that he’s not quite alone. Along the way, he finds a whole bunch of other creatures who in strange places in their lives, such as a bear who’s sad that everyone runs away from him, and a tadpole who’s contending with turning into a frog. The book is based off of the popular Twitter account, @jonnysun.
Amatka by Karin Tidbeck
Swedish writer Karin Tidbeck has written some of the best fantastic fiction that I’ve ever read. If you haven’t read her collection of Weird short stories, Jagganath, do yourself a favor and pick it up immediately. Now, her novel Amatka has been translated into English for the first time. An information assistant named Vanja goes to the winter colony of Amatka to collect some intelligence on behalf of the government. However, something strange is going on, and as her visit lengthens, she discovers evidence of a plot and coverup that threatens the colony.
The Witchwood Crown by Tad iams
The first installment of the new Osten Ard series from Tad iams is set more than 30 years after the last installment of the series, To Green Angel Tower. An envoy to the rulers of Osten Ard is attacked and left for dead, and dark rumors are swirling around the kingdom about forbidden magic. War is coming, all while King Simon works to prevent his kingdom from falling into chaos. Kirkus Reviews gave the book a star rating, saying that it’s a “richly described, meticulously plotted, and multilayered narrative tapestry featuring a diversity of adeptly developed characters and multiple storylines, this is flawless epic fantasy.”
The Pokémon Company had a very good year in 2016. Following the release of Niantic’s Pokémon Go and Game Freak’s Pokémon Sun and Moon, the company’s net profit soared to $143.3 million — nearly 26 times the profit it made the previous year, according to Katan Games, Inc. CEO and analyst Serkan Toto.
In a breakdown on his site, Toto recounts profits for the previous five years. (Fiscal years close at the end of February.) The 2015 fiscal year drew in only $5.6 million. Of the last five fiscal years, the highest profits came in 2014, where the company reported $18.4 million in profits.
Speaking to The Verge via email, Toto points to Pokémon Go as the “key factor” for the sharp rise. “It's widely known that if a developer lands a big hit on mobile, the profitability is much higher than for other platforms,” Toto says. “Some publicly traded mobile-game makers in Japan, for example, regularly boast operating profit margins of 40 percent and higher.”
The Pokémon Company is in charge of the overall brand, while companies like Game Freak or Niantic may develop specific games. Niantic published Pokémon Go, while Nintendo frequently distributes other Pokémon games. Over the last five years, the series’s catalog includes the launch of Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, Pokémon X and Pokémon Y, and Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. “Sure, Sun and Moon was selling even better than those titles last fiscal,” Toto says, “but the games were not that huge.”
The company’s net profit places it higher than many other game studio in Japan, he added, “except for the few lucky mobile-app makers on the very top of the pyramid.”
“I think that thanks to Pokémon Go being a mobile title and Niantic getting better at live operations (at servicing, updating, tweaking the game), The Pokémon Company  continue to enjoy handsome profits over the next years.”
Verizon is the exclusive US carrier of Motorola’s new Moto Z2 Play, but if you take a close look at the phone, you’ll notice something missing: there’s no Droid branding anywhere. Motorola has been Verizon’s closest partner on the Droid family of products for years. Just take a look at this history.
But not this time.
On last year’s Moto phones, the Droid logo had a prominent position right beneath the camera lens. But it’s nowhere to be found on the Moto Z2 Play, and none of the marketing material from Motorola (or Verizon) make any mention of the long-running brand.
“We'll continue using the Droid name on future smartphones when it makes sense,” a Verizon spokesperson told The Verge by email. Your guess is as good as mine on why Verizon and Motorola decided that it didn’t make sense for this particular phone. If Motorola’s not going to be making these things from now on, what company ?
Verizon’s Droid effort made its debut in 2009 with an aggressive advertising campaign directly targeted at the iPhone. Apple’s smartphone was still exclusive to AT&T at the time, so Verizon needed some way of firing back. The headline feature of the original, Motorola-made Droid smartphone was its landscape slide-out keyboard. Verizon promoted that Droid and subsequent models with dark, sci-fi themed commercials. On some phones, users would be greeted by a glowing red eye when they powered up the devices. And then there was the signature, robotic “Drrrroooiiiiidddd” alert tone.
The Droid fleet represented some of the iPhone’s earliest credible competition. Before Samsung came to dominate the Android platform, many US consumers referred to all Android devices as Droids. But the brand no longer enjoys that type of mindshare, which might’ve led to Motorola wanting to shed it after all these years. “We have a great relationship with Motorola and are excited about the future of the Moto Z lineup, including the upcoming Moto Z2 Play and new Moto Mods,” the Verizon spokesperson said.
Now the question becomes who’s next? When  it “make sense” to revive the Droid?
Since there’s no telling when we’ll see another, let us reminisce with some of the most absurd ads for this line of phones.
Launch hype. “What in the world is that?”:
One of countless sci-fi ads:
Samsung made a Droid smartphone once, too:
“It’s not an upgrade to your phone. It’s an upgrade to yourself”:
This one couldn’t have been cheap to produce:
James Franco did one:
So did Ed Norton:
More recent ads focused less on robots and more on practical features:
Apple today announced that its education programming iPad app, Swift Playgrounds,  soon support robots and drones. That means young kids and students  be able to write their own Swift code to control any number of real-world toys and machines. The company is launching the feature next Monday, partnering with a number of top toy and robotics companies including LEGO, automated BB-8 toy maker Sphero, and drone company Parrot. Other companies on board for the launch are toy robot makers UBTECH and Wonder Workshop, as well as Skoog, the maker of a music cube that relies on Swift code to teach children how to compose songs.
Swift Playgrounds, launched last year during Apple’s 2016 Worldwide Developers Conference, is effectively a video game that teaches kids how to code using Apple’s Swift programming language. It breaks down how code functions at the most fundamental level and uses colorful environments and visual guides — product manager Tim Triemstra even uses the game industry term “cutscenes” — to explain the effects of code and the power of programming. The code appears on the left side of the iPad screen, either automated by the app to teach a lesson or typed in directly by the user, while an animation the code can manipulate plays out on the right.
Since the Playgrounds launch, Apple has partnered with a number of educational institutions around the country to get Swift built into introductory computer science curriculums and to make its Playgrounds app a fixture in classrooms. The company says Playgrounds has amassed 1 million unique users since launch. “When we were designing Swift, from the very first days we wanted it to be everyone’s first programming language,” Triemstra says. “We wanted it to be approachable.”
Now, with a significant number of Playground users and Swift picking up steam as a lightweight and more elegant way to build iOS apps, Apple is trying to expand its educational focus from software to hardware. Because Playgrounds  support all manner of robotics, including flying drones, the company hopes it  give young kids a whole new reason to engage with programming and learn the secrets of code. It could  do wonders for the popularity of Swift among the next generation of coders, and help cement the language as a fixture for young and eager roboticists.
Given the popularity of success of the Mindstorms robotics series, it’s a no-brainer that Apple got LEGO onboard for Playgrounds. In a demo at the iPhone maker’s Cupertino office, a LEGO representative broke down exactly how a Mindstorms EV3 kit can work with Playgrounds, connecting any number of robot-controlling modules to an iPad via Bluetooth. From there, you can see real-time data provided by the robots’ actuators, motors, and sensors, as well as program commands for fleshed out LEGO bots to receive and carry out. In preparation for the partnership, LEGO says it’s  designed 10 hours of lessons specifically for the Playgrounds app for kids to run through with a Mindstorms kit.
Similarly, Sphero’s transparent SPRK+ orb, which is already used to teach kids elements of robotics and programming,  work with the app. Kids  be able to program movements and games for the orb, with exercises breaking down the step-by-step process of development, including a real-world Pong game they can play with their feet as the paddles and the SPRK+ as the ball.
French drone maker Parrot is  buying into Apple’s new Playgrounds initiative, adding support for its Mambo, Rolling Spider, and Airborne drones. In another demo at Apple’s offices, a Parrot representative showed off how the Playgrounds app can be used to input commands for the drones to turn, flip in midair, and land in the palm of a user’s hand.
Apple stresses that none of these new features and hardware tie-ins for Playground are dependent on brand new or tie-in hardware. With LEGO, all you need is a Mindstorms EV3 kit, released as far back as 2013. The same goes for Sphero’s SPRK+ and Parrot’s trio of drones — so long as you have the supported product, it  sync with Playgrounds and allow you to start controlling it with your own code.
For the third time, scientists have detected gravitational waves — the ripples in space-time created by objects moving throughout the Universe.
The discovery was made once again by LIGO, or the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory Scientific Collaboration — the same team that last year made headlines for measuring gravitational waves for the first time in history. With each new detection, LIGO further solidifies that its measurements are sound, not just statistical blips. And now, researchers are starting to use these detections to learn more about distant space objects, as well as spot trends that they didn’t quite expect to see.
“There’s a famous saying: once is chance, twice is coincidence, and thrice is a pattern,” Bangalore Sathyaprakash, a physicist at Penn State and Cardiff University, as well as the lead author on a new study about the detection, tells The Verge. “We are seeing a pattern now.”
Similar to the first two detections, the latest gravitational waves LIGO measured stemmed from two dense black holes chaotically merging billions of light-years away. Black holes don’t just simply come together when they merge; they rapidly spin around each other — up to several times per second — before joining to form one single super-dense object. These rotations produce ripples in the fabric of space and time, which then move throughout the Universe at the speed of light. These latest waves, detailed in a new paper that  be published in the journal Physical Review Letters, traveled from a merger nearly 3 billion light-years away before reaching LIGO’s wave-detecting observatories on January 4th.
Though all three of LIGO’s detections have been from black hole mergers, each event was unique. The first detection came from fairly massive black holes, while the second pair were much smaller. This new merger fits right in the middle: the black holes were around 19 and 31 times the mass of our Sun, which is still pretty massive, according to Sathyaprakash. Prior to LIGO’s first detection, scientists didn’t think many black holes bigger than 20 solar masses existed. Now not only we know they exist, but they may be pretty common. “There is a population of heavy black holes out there and LIGO has started seeing them,” says Sathyaprakash. “I think we  detect more and more as we go along.”
Today, gravitational waves are no longer a novelty but a new tool for studying the cosmos. But up until LIGO’s first detection, gravitational waves were the last big unconfirmed part of Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity. That theory, which came out in 1916, revolutionized our understanding of the Universe, by combining space and time together into a single concept known as space-time. Einstein theorized that objects actually leave imprints on the space-time around them — and when objects move, they create ripples in space-time, similar to how a moving object creates ripples in a pond.
Technically, every object that moves — from a person to a planet — creates these ripples. But the waves you and I produce are so small they’re basically impossible to detect. LIGO is designed to pick up waves coming from the most massive objects in the Universe moving at rapid speeds. The mergers of black holes or neutron stars — dense leftovers of stars that have collapsed — produce gargantuan waves that can be picked up from Earth. But by the time they reach our planet, they’ve diminished substantially, making them extremely difficult to measure.
Fortunately, LIGO’s two observatories in Washington and Louisiana are sensitive enough to do the trick. Each observatory is shaped like an L, with “arms” made of vacuum-sealed tubes that run 2.5 miles long. At the end of each tube is a suspended mirror, and where the arms meet, there's a laser pointed to each mirror. Whenever a gravitational wave passes, the ends of each L are warped differently, making it seem like one mirror is getting closer to the source of the laser while the other is getting farther away. LIGO can pick up this phenomenon by timing how long it takes the laser to hit each mirror. LIGO is so precise that it can pick up changes that are 1,000 times smaller than the size of a proton.
The three detections we have from LIGO are already changing scientists’ ideas about how massive black holes can get — much more massive than people thought possible.
It all has to do with where these objects came from. The black holes that LIGO has been observing are thought to be the leftover remnants of dead stars that have used up all their fuel and collapsed. And the masses of these black holes are largely dictated by the stars they came from, which depends a lot on where and when the stars formed. For instance, the first stars that emerged just after the Big Bang — about 14 billion years ago — differ a lot from those that formed much later.
The earliest stars were made up of only the lightest elements, hydrogen and helium — the first elements to form. But as the stars evolved, they eventually created heavier elements inside their cores through nuclear fusion reactions. At some point, those heavier elements were expelled throughout the Universe when the stars exploded and became the initial ingredients for the next generation of stars. That means the stars that formed more recently are richer in these heavier elements, like carbon and nitrogen.
The amount of heavy elements a star has is thought to affect how that star evolves over time. Heavier elements absorb a lot more radiation, according to Sathyaprakash. That energizes the elements, giving them enough momentum to be thrown off the star. That means if a star is made up of a lot of heavier elements, it is more likely to lose mass than a star that is made up of pristine hydrogen and helium.
Most people assumed that the black holes LIGO saw would come from stars rich in heavy elements, meaning they probably would never exceed 20 times the mass of our Sun. But now that LIGO has detected at least three black holes more massive than that, Sathyaprakash says it’s possible there are a lot more stars out there made of lighter elements. Perhaps the observatories are spying much older stars that were formed closer to the Big Bang. Either way, people are rethinking their models. “There are some people who did think heavier black holes could form, but they were in a minority,” says Sathyaprakash. “So the past detection of black holes by LIGO was a turning point in astrophysics.”
The LIGO collaboration is using this latest detection to figure out more details about the two black holes that created the latest waves. For instance, the signals hold clues as to how the holes were spinning up until the point they merged. And that, in turn, paints a picture of how the merger occurred in the first place.
When black holes merge, there are three types of rotations involved: the two holes each rotate individually and they revolve around each other. If both the black holes rotate in the same general direction as how they’re revolving around each other, then they’re considered aligned, according to Laura Cadonati, a LIGO collaborator and professor of physics at Georgia Institute of Technology. However, if one black hole is spinning in the opposite direction of the other, then they’re not aligned.
The LIGO researchers can try to determine the black holes’ alignment by studying the gravitational wave signal a bit more closely. If aligned, the black holes take slightly longer to merge than expected. That’s because the aligned orbits would create more rotational energy, making it harder for the holes to come together. “It takes a little bit longer,” says Cadonati. “They do another couple dances around each other.” In the case of the latest detection, the wave signal indicates that these black holes were not in alignment when they merged.
And that tells scientists a bit about how the black holes might have come together. If the black holes stemmed from a two-star system, where the stars were already orbiting around each other, then chances are the orbits would be aligned. However, this signal seems to indicate that these black holes came from stars that formed separately, but within the same stellar cluster. They then slowly came together over time. “It’s just a hint [that this happened]; we cannot say with certainty,” says Cadonati. “But if this becomes the pattern — if we see more of this — that  be a more definitive statement.”
LIGO spotted these most recent gravitational waves during an observational run that started on November 30th, 2016 and  continue through the end of the summer. So it’s possible we’ll hear about even more detections soon enough, as LIGO continues to look through the data. Once the current observational run ends, though, the next one doesn’t start up again until 2018. During that down time, the team  be doing technical upgrades to the observatories to make them even more sensitive. That means even more detections could be on their way, allowing LIGO to learn more about how massive objects merge billions of light-years away.
“It’s only three detections so far, so it’s only the beginning,” says Sathyaprakash. “But with this detection we are sending a message to the world that we are here to do gravitational wave astronomy.”


Amazon is rolling out an update to Alexa today that  bring a couple of critical new features that probably should’ve been included when it launched two years ago. Reminders and named timers are both rolling out today, helping to improve Alexa’s usefulness in your daily routine.
You can now say “Alexa, remind me to take out the trash at 6PM,” and it  notify you at the proper time. Alexa still lacks context for AM / PM reminders and alarms (unlike Siri and Google Assistant), which is actively annoying, so don’t forget the abbreviation.
Just like alarms, reminders are tied to the device you set them on, so don’t expect to set a reminder in your office and hear it on the Echo in your kitchen just yet. And there isn’t a way to sync reminders with third party services like Todoist, so if you already have a list of reminders, you’ll have to manually add them to your Alexa.
Alexa now supports named timers as well, which  definitely come in handy in the event that you’re cooking multiple dishes. You can  check how much time is left on a certain timer by saying “Alexa, how much time is left on my lasagna timer,” and it  let you know.
The new features are rolling out today in the US, and  be available in the UK and Germany in the coming weeks.
Western animation is in the middle of a golden age. Shows like BoJack Horseman and Rick and Morty have emerged as the new standard-bearers for a kind of cartoon that’s sharp, funny, and insightful, capable of dealing with startlingly nuanced themes, like BoJack’s honest reflections on the nature of unhappiness. But few efforts in any medium can manage Steven Universe’s trick of exploring topics like intimacy, love, abuse, and the constant threat of annihilation, while balancing them with thoughts on the simple joy of eating a hot dog. The series started out as a slice-of-life show about a young boy and his magical family, but it’s emerged as one of the most daring, open-hearted series on television today.
The creative force behind the series is Emmy-nominated writer Rebecca Sugar, Cartoon Network’s first female showrunner. Originally a storyboard revisionist for Adventure Time, she broke out on her own to launch Steven Universe in 2013, blending her love of superheroes and magical-girl anime with a story about a kid not unlike her own little brother, Steven Sugar. Four years later, the show has gotten much more complicated; a recent arc sees Steven abducted by his alien enemies, and being put on trial for his mother’s ancient war crimes. But at its heart, the show is still very much about relationships and family in all their forms.
“The thing I always return to is that, for me, it’s about my relationship with my brother,” Sugar tells The Verge. “All of the gems are reflections of some piece of that. I try to always remember that it comes down to that feeling of being able to go home at the end of the day and hang out with your best friend, who’s  your brother. That’s the center point of bringing all these unrelated things together. They’re the things we share.”
Steven Universe doesn’t spark the kind of pop cultural conversations that shows like Game of Thrones spawn, but fan love — particularly online — has allowed it to reach a quiet kind of ubiquity, with comics, books, and video games regularly extending the story. Sugar does her best to be involved in all these projects, providing a unity of vision to something that’s slowly becoming its own expanded universe project. We spoke with Sugar about that vision, what fandom means to her, and where Steven is headed next.
Steven Universe is quietly exploding. What has it been like seeing the show grow into a bigger property?
It's been so exciting! The show is so video game inspired, so we knew we wanted to be very involved when [games company] Grumpyface started working on our first game, Attack the Light. There is so much that can be said about the characters that can be said so clearly in the form of a game. For example, we knew it had to be an RPG. In that game, everyone starts at a super-high level except for Steven, and Steven always defends and heals, but never attacks. You  get chances to chat with the Gems, and you have to choose who you're buddying up to at times. I love that stuff. Steven loves all the Gems, so there's no easy answer if you have to pick sides.
We've had the chance to build on those ideas so much more for the Save the Light, the upcoming console game. Now you get to choose who you're teaming up with, and the relationship-building aspect is way more important. It can build to special moves you can only do when certain characters team up with each other.
Is that freeing on your end, or more challenging?
It can be hard to juggle the extra projects with the show. There's not enough time in the day, but it's so worth it when we get to explain things in a new way in a new medium. I loved working on the Answer children's book, because of all the meta fairytale storytelling that could only work in the form of a book. Attack the Light felt like that, too, full of things only a game can do, and Save the Light even more so. Working with Grumpyface is very freeing, especially after doing the first game together. They totally know what I like, and they're running with the style we invented for the first game and expanding on it. Inventing a unique style for the first game was very challenging, but building on what we started and working in all the dreams we couldn't fit into the first game has been so, so fun.
My brother is  very involved. He’s excited that we’re actually getting to move around Beach City. He knows where everything is. There’s a feeling that Beach City has of being a real place, in part because it’s based off of the beaches that me and my brother used to visit as kids — Rehoboth Beach, Ocean City. But then Beach City specifically, everything has a specific place in Steven’s mind, and he knows that world like it’s real. Even when we’re discussing story ideas, he’ll be able to chime in and help us and say, “If they’re going to Vidalia’s, they need to make a left.” It’s a real world!
The show has gotten so popular over the last few years, particularly online. How has your relationship with fans evolved, and what does it look like right now?
It's overwhelming. I relate very, very much to the fans of the show, because growing up, I was a very extreme fan of cartoons. The cartoons I loved were such a huge source of strength for me. So with this show, I always wanted it to be something that could be a part of someone's life in that way, a source of strength.
These days, there's so much feedback online, I have a hard time absorbing all of it. It's dizzying. Mostly, I love to meet people in person when I can, at cons or events. I love when people tell me what the show means to them personally, which character they relate to and why. I feel I really get to know people so well, so suddenly. And when it's become an important part of someone's life, I feel so honored. Not everyone understands how a cartoon can mean that much to someone, but I really, truly understand.
There’s a sense that I used to have that there wasn’t really a legitimacy to that feeling. When you love and care about something, even if it’s the world silliest thing, [it] can have weight and be that source of comfort in a way that is beautiful enough to be reflected in a piece of art. And that kind of folds in on itself, because it’s being reflected in a piece of art that’s  a silly piece of art. So you end up in this vortex of beauty and silliness. I’ll spiral into it and sort of have days where I’m like, “This is everything I want to express as an artist,” and other days where I’ll be like, “Ah, that’s a wacky cartoon!” They’re important to me! I want the feeling of the comfort that you can get from a silly piece of pop culture to have the weight and beauty that it has for me in this piece of pop culture that we’re making together.
How have communities on platforms like Reddit and Tumblr shaped the show?
I really don’t believe it should be a one-sided conversation. There’s this book by Roland Barthes called A Lover’s Discourse, and in that book, he describes this concept called an “image-repertoire.” When you have a relationship with someone, your relationship is linked to an image of that person, and the [ideas] you associate with that person. It struck me, as a huge comic book fan, that the extreme love I had for the people who made my favorite comics — I was like, “This is what this is! This is an actual love for them, because I share an image-repertoire with them, except that they have never met me.” I feel that I know them very well, because I’ve shared something with them, but they don’t have anything to associate with me. That just explains everything, this very one-sided relationship I have with the people I’m a huge fan of.
So that made me think about comics and cartoons a little differently. I’m building an image-repertoire with someone; I’m speaking to someone. And I think there are several ways you can approach a conversation with someone. I mean, you could spend the whole conversation just talking about yourself and what you like, and you’re not interested in them or what they think, and that’s not a very good conversation. I want to always move that conversation forward.
“Mindful Education” was a big one for that, because there was so much happening to the well-being of the characters, and  within the fan community. I wanted to respond to it through the show, and I wanted to do that by giving people a tool to process and calm extreme feelings. I can see that people enjoyed feeling very extreme feelings, and I know that feeling of being like, “I love that this piece of entertainment can get me to that mood.” I want it to. I want to interact that way. I’ve always been that way, too. So I thought, “I want to give something where it actually moves you to a place of calm.”
From the start, the show has clearly been influenced by a wide variety of genres. But you've  injected video game culture and web culture, like with Steven's online tutorial shorts. What kind of things do you watch that translate well to your stories?
This really has everything to do with the show being from Steven's point of view. This almost comes down to, “What would Steven himself be watching, and playing, and what would he be participating in online?” He's so earnest, so when we come across something online that is incredibly earnest, it's easy to imagine Steven doing that, too. A reaction video, a song. We were all obsessed with an unboxing video where someone was reviewing these very specific Cheez-Its, and he was just so thorough and genuine about it. It made us want to have Steven do an unboxing. The most accurate Steven Universe tutorial short is actually Steven's snack sushi recipe, which is an homage to Cooking with Dog, but is  an actual recipe invented by my actual brother Steven Sugar. And it's really good!
As the series has evolved, you've done more to explore gender, relationships, and other more mature themes that other cartoons don't touch on. You've said before that you're not trying to make a point with the themes you explore, but do you think it's more important now to do that kind of work in animation than in previous years?
Yes. It's very important right now. Animation is such an incredible tool when it comes to making characters that the audience can empathize with. To watch an animated character and to believe that they're real requires the viewer to project so much of themselves into the drawings they're watching. With a cartoon, you can make something feel classic and iconic and absurdly simple. And so much of the preexisting language for cartoons is heavily gendered. For example, how many cartoon couples are two identical characters, except one has eyelashes and a bow? This is the time and this is the tool to expand people's visual language when it comes to what a couple looks like, and to create gender nonconforming characters that are so compelling that you can't deny their humanity. Because by believing in them, they are already a reflection of your humanity.
To me, exploring stories like that through a cartoon is everything I’m excited about. Cartoons are expected to be, and really need to be, simple and readable and clear. It’s already a lot to ask someone to look at a drawing and think it’s really alive. You need to be able to understand what their expressions mean, and that’s the skill of making a cartoon. So, trying to do subtle, complex stories within a cartoon is very challenging. But that’s what’s exciting about it. Seeing cartoon characters express real, complicated feelings that I’ve never seen a cartoon character emote, and trying to invent what that looks like — that is the fun of this thing. I think the only way to approach that is to tell stories that get characters to a place where you can see on their faces an expression of a feeling that other cartoons haven’t felt before.
What kind of new challenges and ideas  Steven face in the stories ahead?
Steven is really going to have to turn inward and face himself. Throughout the show, he's put everyone else first, and his main goal has been to become the person his family wants him to be. That's got to shift. He's got to accept that it's impossible to fill the shoes of his mother, Rose Quartz. She was always barefoot.
What’s exciting as we get deeper into the show is making him realize that there are the magic Gem powers, but there are powers that people have as human beings to understand themselves and define themselves and make their own choices. It’s an incredible power that we all have, and are often told to ignore or take for granted. Those are the kinds of powers I’m excited to have him learn how to explore.
Would you say the industry has changed much around you since you worked on Adventure Time?
It's changed completely! There is a demand now for different perspectives, for more diverse stories and characters, and for us to use our platform to make a better world for kids. I'm so honored to have had the chance to be working in TV while this shift has been happening. And there is a demand for the story arcs and character arcs we used to subtly thread from episode to episode on Adventure Time! And a home is brewing for the older cartoon audience that is so dear to my heart, the teens and adults that still love cartoons way too much. That is very new and very exciting.
I find that I’ve changed . I’ve changed as I’ve been making the show, for so many reasons: learning from my team, doing so much art that I’ve told all the stories I’ve dreamed of telling, so now I’m gonna tell even more! And just trying to figure out what those are. I mean, the overarching process is that there’s so much within that, so many goals I’ve been able to hit on already in the show. For me, the show is a learning experience, and is part of me growing as a person, but obviously never arriving at being finished. I wanna do that with the audience, too.
Where do you foresee the industry going for new artists and animators who've come of age online? What can they expect?
I think it really depends on the artist and how they wanna make a piece of art. If you aren’t interested in art as a conversation, then the focus would be on avoiding outside influences in order to make something with the intent. My intent was to grow and to learn about myself and other people, and to forge relationships with the show. Me being a fan forged so many of my relationships. I guess in a way, what’s really hard for me is, I don’t get to necessarily be in that community. I would like to be. I would like to talk about the show, but I have to go elsewhere. Maybe talk about Riverdale. [Laughs]
I foresee an incredible era of totally new voices coming from totally new places. There are so many resources online, anything you would ever want to know about animation history, and tools for drawing and animating and sharing art that didn't exist before. This next generation of artists can expect that if they make comics, if they finish projects, if they have something truly new and interesting to say and they say it in a way that's entertaining, they  definitely be heard. And if they end up in a corporate setting, they can expect pushback when they're doing something new and innovative. First people  get excited, and then get nervous, because there's no proof what they're doing  work. But that's exactly why it  work.
It’s summer 2017 and the App Store is spilling over with fidget spinner apps. Their titles are largely uninspired, impossible to tell apart: Fidget Spinner, Fidget Spinner Toy, Fidget Hand Spinner, Fidget Spin. Most are lazy re-creations of the popular stress reliever. All are indicative of a larger trend in mobile gaming to identify and mass-produce the hot idea of the moment.
The fidget spinner — a cheap, easy-to-make object that you can pick up at your local bodega or gas station — exploded into popularity in late April. The toy, which comes in a variety of colors and shapes, has inspired techno music, phone cases, rocket-powered safety nightmares, and even the dry world of workplace art.
Fidget apps began to overflow in the App Store around mid-May. The rush to crank out clones and copies is a predictable aspect of the mobile ecosystem. Flappy Bird, Threes!, Pokémon Go: all of these games were followed by a surge of rushed rip-offs hoping to ride the wave of popularity and skim some cash in the process.
But fidget spinners are a strange take on this trend: a play off the popularity of a physical toy that serves very little purpose, translated into a digital app that does even less. The entire point of a fidget spinner is the tactile feel that no app can capture.
Earlier this month, Ketchapp’s Fidget Spinner was the top free app in the App Store; it’s since fallen to number six. The app isn’t a high-quality game or a good stress-releasing spinner toy. As my colleague Paul Miller explained, “The whole app is basically designed to minimize your time fidget spinning while maximizing ad impressions.”
Developer Ketchapp has a history of controversial apps. The company has been accused of cloning games like Sirvo’s Threes! and ustwo Games’ Monument Valley with 2048 and Skyward. Ketchapp disputes these claims. Last February, co-founder and co-director Antoine Morcos told Tech Insider that Skyward was a different type of game that didn’t fall into the same genre Monument Valley. His response to 2048’s similarities to Threes! Was that "all [car] racing games look the same.”
Today, Ketchapp exists under the umbrella of publisher Ubisoft. The company behind AAA franchises like Assassin’s Creed, Far Cry, and Watch Dogs acquired Ketchapp last year.
Fidget Spinner looks and functions like many other fidget spinner games in the App Store, but it’s hard to tell who’s mimicking who. It seems all parties are equally looking to cash in on a hot, albeit undoubtedly short-lived, trend. In an email to The Verge, Morcos says the idea was inspired by the popularity of real-life spinners. “Seeing [people] playing the Fidget Spinner everywhere has given us the idea to create a game based on this trend, that would be as addictive as the real toy,” he says. “We came up with something interesting and unique, the idea of spinning the fidget to earn coins, which in return would let you unlock new crazy models. , there is a concept of ‘the more you are good in spinning, the better you  improve the stats of your spinner over time.’”
Trend-chasing developers approach the market like gamblers: the more you play, the better your odds. A handful of creators have multiple fidget spinner games listed on their developer page, or attached to different accounts. Binh Nguyen’s iPhone apps, for example, include four fidget spinner-themed games: Tappy Fidget Spinner 3D & Challenge Games, Fidget Spinner!, Spinner Color Finger - Fidget Ping Pong Games, and Swing Fidget Spinner - Arcade Games.
All four games are listed under Binh Nguyen, but clicking the websites associated with each  take you on a wild goose chase. Tappy Fidget Spinner directs to an unfinished website, labeled “Games iOS 2017,” with images of men and women on a beach. Fidget Spinner! is a Facebook fan page for Five Keys Studio; Spinner Color Finger leads to a Facebook page for Five Keys Studio IOS Games, as does Swing Fidget Spinner. Both Facebook pages share the Five Keys logo with the Arts Game page, a website associated with Le Anh, which has its own Fidget Spinner game on the App Store, Flappy Fidget Spinner - Returns Classic Games — a clear knockoff of Flappy Bird, but with the popular toy.
Neptun Digital is another developer taking more than one bite from the same apple. It lists two games, Fidget Spinner - Finger Hand Spin Simulator and Fidget Spinner - Hand Spin Simulator; if you’re having trouble telling them apart, the former uses a red-and-gray color palette while the latter is primarily blue and gray. Neptun Digital is a team of five based in Slovenia. Their only other game on the App Store is called Jumping Fred!, a game starring a red-feathered fellow with an Angry Birds aesthetic. Aljosa Pavsic, the company’s CEO, said that creating these apps took less than a week to develop from scratch.
When asked what sets a game like Fidget Spinner - Finger Hand Spin Simulator apart from others in the App Store, Pavsic says, “Our game in comparison to others has multiple fidget spinners to play with simultaneously.” (In testing out a wide variety of fidget spinner games, The Verge found that several did offer a variety of spinners to choose from.)
“In a way,” Pavsic says, “all the fidget spinners on the App Store are a response to this new fidget spin phenomenon, because the digital world (social media, YouTube, app stores) is almost always a response to the real-life events happening around us. People these days tend to search for a digital experience after each physical one if possible.”
Tastypill claims to have produced the first spinner game — Spinny Fidget  — in the App Store’s top charts. (It’s  the creator of Fidget Spin.) “It was not a craze yet until we realized we were gaining chart momentum,” founder Phillip Kung tells The Verge. “Now there are many of these games, several of which have cracked the top charts. Many more are being introduced into the app store each day … We created Spinny Fidget with a completely unique and never before done game play mechanic. Just 1–2 weeks after we released our game and hit the top 5 in the app store there are more than a dozen games that have released that are exact clones of our game.”
Kung says Tastypill released two games themed around fidget spinners in an effort to best penetrate the market. There is no fear of diluting or dividing players. Fidget spinner loyalty is apparently hard to come by. “We know that the traffic is going to be there,” he says, “and that a large portion of the audience  download several different games based on the trend.”
Spinny Fidget took about a week to complete, the developer says. The short development time on these games is indicative of their life span. Regardless of how many developers crank out games, the fidget spinner craze  die, as all these fads do. According to Google trends, search interest has already begun to wane. Developers are looking for whatever the next big thing may be.
Ketchapp is the most prolific of the developers The Verge interviewed, having released dozens of games under its banner on the App Store. When asked by how the studio prepares for the next big thing, Morcos gives a vague answers:
“At Ketchapp, we want to stay connected with our audience, in real time if we can,” Morcos says, “and really understand what our fans love to do these days. This changes very rapidly. The idea is to create games based on what they love to do, or what they currently are interested in. It could be anything.”
“If I could personally go back to school and spend time with teens,” he continues, “it would definitely help me better understand the trends and new behaviors on mobile phones.”
In other words, the flood of trend-chasing games is dictated by the fickle infatuations of the average 13-year-old. The truth is almost enough to make your head spin.


Microsoft acquired Skype nearly six years ago, and ever since then it feels like the messaging service has been experiencing an existential crisis. Skype has been slowly transitioning from a peer-to-peer service to the cloud, and it’s been a bumpy ride with many design changes and issues. While Microsoft has managed to add features like free group video calling and Skype for Web, the software giant has struggled with the design and feature set of Skype as it attempts to compete with challengers like FaceTime, Messenger, WhatsApp, and more.
Microsoft is once again redesigning Skype today.
Described as “the next generation of Skype,” the new design focuses on messaging. Skype is well known and used widely for video and audio calls, but iMessage, WhatsApp, Messenger, Snapchat and other messaging services have taken the lead for today’s conversations. The new Skype messaging interface now includes three sections in a conversation: find, chat, and capture. Find lets you search through a conversation, or find images, restaurants, and even add-ins like YouTube or Giphy to add content into a message. Chat is the basic conversation view you’d expect with options for emoji or picture additions, but the newest section is capture.
Capture feels a lot like Snapchat within Skype, and it immediately launches into the camera to let you take pictures or hold down for video. As you hold down for video you’ll immediately recognize one of the more subtle design changes in this new version of Skype, a squiggly line that represents the amount of time for a recording. This line is  used for calling, or when contacts are typing. Once you’ve captured a video or picture you can then add stickers, text, or simply annotate it, all just like Snapchat.
Skype is  introducing a new Highlights feature that’s a lot like Snapchat stories. Highlights lets you post a stream of photos and videos that friends can view and react with emoticons. Even in text- or video-based conversations you’ll be able to react on Skype with emoticons. It seems the new Skype UI is really designed to make you use more and more of the new chat features available.
Even calling is getting redesigned for this new version of Skype. You can drag and drop people around in conversations, and react with emoticons during calls. During my limited testing it felt a lot smoother than regular group video chats, but I didn’t feel the need to blast emoticons at people.
Today’s Skype design is just the latest in a long line of changes over the years. Microsoft has been trying many different ways to get people to use Skype messaging instead of competitors. Skype Qik was an attempt to take over mobile video messaging that flopped, and Microsoft has been tweaking its Skype mobile interface for years to better improve messaging. Nothing has had a big impact, and Skype is still widely used for video and audio calls. Microsoft has the user base and brand recognition for the calling part of Skype, but it’s desperate for Skype to be considered a true messaging service.
This latest redesign might help, but there’s nothing here that’s unique or new over what competitors are doing well. Thankfully, with features like a universal search and a simple user interface, the new Skype design does address some of the weird inconsistencies we’ve seen in the past. Microsoft is only rolling out the new Skype design to mobile at first, with desktop to follow soon. Android devices  first start seeing the new Skype design today, followed by iOS, Windows, and Mac.
Ask Geordie Rose and Suzanne Gildert, co-founders of the startup Kindred, about their company’s philosophy, and they’ll describe a bold vision of the future: machines with human-level intelligence. Rose says these  be perhaps the most transformative inventions in history — and they aren’t far away. More intriguing than this prediction is Kindred’s proposed path for achieving it. Unlike some of the most cash-flush corporations in Silicon Valley, Kindred is focusing not on chatbots or game-playing programs, but on automating physical robots.
Gildert, a physicist who conceived Kindred in 2013 while working with Rose at quantum computing company D-Wave, thinks giving AI a physical body is the only way to make real progress toward a true thinking machine. “If you want to build intelligence that conceptually thinks in the same way a human does… it needs to have a similar sensory motor as humans do,” Gildert says. The trick to achieving this, she thinks, is to train robots by having them collaborate with humans in the physical world. Rose, who co-founded D-Wave in 1999, stepped back from his role as chief technology officer to work on Kindred with Gildert.
The first step toward their new shared goal is an industrial warehouse robot called the Orb. It’s a robotic arm that sits inside a hexagonal glass encasement, equipped with a bevy of sensors to help it see, feel, and even hear its surroundings. The arm is operated using a mix of human control and automated software. Because so many warehouse workers today spend a significant amount of time sorting products and scanning barcodes, Kindred developed a robotic arm that can do some elements automatically. Meanwhile, humans step in when needed to manually operate the robot to perform tasks that are difficult for machines, like gripping a single product from a cluster of different items.
Workers can even operate the arm remotely using an off-the-shelf HTC Vive headset and virtual reality motion controllers. It turns out that VR is great for gathering data on depth and other information humans intuitively use to grasp objects.
Kindred is now focused on getting its finished Orb into warehouses, where it can begin learning at an accelerated pace by sorting vastly different products and observing human operators. Because the company gathers data every time a human uses the Orb, engineers are able to improve its software over time using techniques such as reinforcement learning, which improves software through repetition. Down the line, the Orb should slowly take over more responsibility and, ideally, learn to perform new tasks.
But Kindred’s ultimate goal is much more ambitious. It may sound counterintuitive, but Rose and Gildert think warehouses are the perfect place to start on the path toward human-level artificial intelligence. Because the US shipping marketplace is already rife with single-purpose robots, thanks in part to Amazon, there are plenty of opportunities for humans to train AI. Finding, handling, and sorting products while maneuvering in a fast-moving environment is a data gold mine for building robots that can operate in the real world.
Rose and Gildert believe the next generation of AI won’t be in the form of a disembodied voice living in our phones. Rather, they believe the greatest strides  come from programs running inside a physical robot can gain knowledge about the world and itself from the ground up, like a human infant does from birth.
Kindred’s is working toward what’s known as artificial general intelligence, or software capable of performing any task a human being can do. Artificial general intelligence, or AGI, is sometimes referred to as “strong” or “full” AI because it exists in contrast to AI programs, like DeepMind’s AlphaGo system, with very specific applications. Other more conventional forms of “weak” or “narrow” AI include the underlying software behind Netflix and Amazon recommendations, Snapchat camera effects that rely on facial recognition, and Google’s fast and accurate language translations.
These algorithms are developed by applying deep learning techniques to large-scale neural networks until they can, say, differentiate between an image of a dog and a cat. They perform one task, or perhaps many in some cases, far better than humans can. But they are extremely limited and don’t learn or adapt the way humans do. The software that recognizes a sunset can’t predict whether you’ll like a Netflix movie or translate a sentence into Japanese. Right now, you can’t ask AlphaGo to face off in chess — it doesn’t know the rules and wouldn’t know how to begin learning them.
This is the fundamental challenge of AGI: how to create an intelligent system, the kind we know only from science fiction, that can truly learn on its own without needing to be fed thousands of examples and trained over the course of weeks or months.
The biggest names in AI research, like DeepMind, are focused on game-playing because it seems to be the most viable path forward. After all, if you can teach software to play Pong, perhaps it can take the lessons learned and apply them to Breakout? This applied knowledge approach, which mimics the way a human player can quickly intuit the rules of a new game, has proven promising.
For instance, AlphaGo Master, DeepMind’s latest Go system that just bested world champion Ke Jie, now effectively teaches itself how to play better. “One of the things we’re most excited about is not just that it can play Go better, but we hope that this’ll actually lead to technologies that are more generally applicable to other challenging domains,” DeepMind co-founder and CEO Demis Hassabis said at the event last week.
Yet for Kindred’s founders, the quest to crack the secret of human cognition can’t be separated from our physical bodies. “Our founding belief was that in order to make real progress toward the original objectives of AI, you needed to start by grounding your ideas in the physical world,” Rose says. “And that means robots, and robots with sensors that can look around, touch, hear the world that surrounds them.”
This body-first approach to AI is based on a theory called embodied cognition, which suggests that the interplay between our brain, body, and the physical world is what produces elements of consciousness and the ability to reason. (A fun exercise here is thinking about how many common metaphors have physical underpinnings, like thinking of affection as warmth or something inconceivable as being “over your head.”) Without understanding how the brain developed to control the body and guide functions like locomotion and visual processing, the theory goes, we may never be able to reproduce it artificially.
Other than Kindred, work on AI and embodied cognition mostly happens in the research divisions of large tech companies and academia. For example, Pieter Abbeel, who leads development on the Berkeley Robot for the Elimination of Tedious Tasks (BRETT), aims to create robots that can learn much like young children do.
By giving its robot sensory abilities and motor functions and then using AI training techniques, the BRETT team devised a way for it to acquire knowledge and physical skills much faster than with standard programming — and with the flexibility to keep learning. Much like how babies are constantly adjusting their behavior when attempting something new, BRETT  approaches unique problems, fails at first, and then adjusts over repeated attempts and under new constraints. Abbeel’s team even uses children’s toys to test BRETT’s aptitude for problem solving.
OpenAI, the nonprofit funded by SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk, is working on both general purpose game-playing algorithms and robotics, under the notion that both avenues are complementary. Helping the team is Abbeel, who is on leave from Berkeley to help OpenAI make progress fusing AI learnings with modern robotics. “The interesting thing about robotics is that it forces us to deal with the actual data we would want an intelligent agent to deal with,” says Josh Tobin, a graduate student at Berkeley who works on robotics at OpenAI.
Applying AI to real-world tasks like picking up objects and stacking blocks involves tackling a whole suite of new problems, Tobin says, like managing unfamiliar textures and replicating minute motor movements. Solving them is necessary if we’re to ever deploy intelligent robots beyond factory floors.
Wojciech Zaremba, who leads OpenAI’s robotics work, says that a holy grail of sorts would be a general-purpose robot powered by AI that can learn a new task — scrambling eggs, for instance — by watching someone do it just once. This is why OpenAI is working on teaching robots new skills that are first demonstrated by a human in a simulated VR environment, much like a video game, where it’s much easier and less costly to produce and collect data.
“You could imagine that, as a final outcome, if it’s doable, you have files online of recordings of various tasks,” Zaremba says. “And then if you want the robot to replicate this behavior, you just download the file.”
When I first operated the Orb, on an April afternoon in Kindred’s San Francisco warehouse space, a group of six or so engineers were scattered about testing the robotic arms with various pink-colored bins of products — vitamin bottles, soft plastic cylinders of Lysol cleaning wipes, rolls of paper towels.
The Orb is designed to help sort these objects in a large heap inside its glass container, while the arm sits affixed to the roof of the container. First, an operator wearing a VR headset moves the arm to a desired object, lowers the gripper, and adjusts the two clamps until a firm grip is established. Then the human can simply let go. Kindred has already automated the process of lifting the object in the air, scanning the barcode, and sorting it into the necessary bin.
“In any gigantic warehouse, people have to walk around and pick up things,” says George Babu, Kindred’s chief product officer. “The most efficient way to do that is to pick up a whole bunch of different things at the same time. Those go to someplace where you have them separated. Our robot does that job in the middle.” The idea is that warehouse workers can dump a bunch of products into the Orb, while a remote operator works with the robot to sort them.
Amazon is working on something similar, and the company now holds an annual “picking” challenge to spur development in industrial robotics that are capable of handling and sorting physical items. Kindred is quick to recognize Amazon’s prowess in this department. “In the fulfillment world, Amazon uses a different set of approaches than all of the other fulfillment provisioners. They have the scale, the scope, and the know-how to implement end-to-end systems that are very effective at what they do,” Rose says. But he thinks Amazon is likely to keep this technology to itself. “The advancements that Amazon makes toward doing this job well don’t benefit all of their competitors.”
Kindred’s system, on the other hand, is designed to integrate into existing warehouse tools. Last month, Kindred finished its first deployable devices, and it “created more demand than we anticipated,” according to Jim Liefer, Kindred’s chief operating officer, though he won’t disclose any initial customers.
I was surprised when using the Orb, with a Vive headset, by just how much it resembles a video game. Think of a toy claw machine, where the second the clamp touches down on an object, the automated process takes over and the arm springs to life with an uncanny jerkiness. It makes sense, considering Kindred built its depth-sensing system using the game engine Unity.
Max Bennett, Kindred’s robotics product manager, says that the process is designed so that human warehouse workers can operate multiple Orbs simultaneously, gripping objects and letting the software take the reins before cycling to the next setup. Kindred imagines future versions of the robotic arm being affixed to sliding overhead rails or maybe even to bipedal robots that roam the floor. There is  a point at which the Vive is no longer necessary. “Nobody’s going to want to use a VR headset all day,” Bennett tells me, suggesting that an Xbox controller or even just a computer mouse  do in the future.
As for how the Orb might impact jobs, Babu says there  be need for human labor for quite some time. He’s partly right: Amazon hired 100,000 workers in the last year alone, and plans to hire 100,000 more this year, mostly in warehouse and other fulfillment roles. But systems like the Orb raise the possibility that fewer jobs are needed as the work becomes more a matter of assisting and operating robots.
“My view is that the humans  all move on to different work in the stream,” Babu says.
Still, Forrester Research predicts that automation  result in 25 million jobs lost over the next decade, with only 15 million new jobs created. The end goals of automation have always been to reduce costs and improve efficiency, and that  inevitably mean the disappearance of certain types of labor.
Kindred is unique in the AI field not just for its robotics focus, but  because it’s diving head first into the industrial world with a commercial product. Many of the big tech companies working on AI are doing so with huge research organizations, like Facebook AI Research and Google Brain. These teams are filled with academics and engineers who work on abstract problems that then help inform real software features that get deployed to millions of consumers.
Kindred, as a startup, can’t afford this approach. “Day one we said: ‘We’re going to find a big market. We’re going to build a wildly successful product for that initial market, and build a business by executing along that path first with one vertical and then maybe others,’” Rose explains. He adds that his experience with D-Wave, which raised more than $150 million over the course of more than a decade just to release its first product, inspired him to seek out a different approach to tackling big-picture problems.
“You have this quandary that doing it right is going to take a long time, on the order of decades. How do you sustain that organization for that length of time without all the negative side effects of raising a lot of rounds of VC?” Rose says. “The answer is that you have to create a real business that is cash-flow positive very early.” Kindred has raised $15 million in funding thus far from Eclipse, GV, Data Collective, and a number of other investors. But Rose stresses that the company’s focus is to become profitable with the Orb, and that  help it in its main objective.
That objective, since the beginning, is human-level AI with a focus on what Gildert calls “in-body cognition,” or the type of thought processes that only arise from giving AI a physical shell. “Intelligence absence a body is not what we think it means,” she says. “Intelligence with a body brings to it a number of constraints that are not there when you think about intelligence in a virtual environment. We certainly don’t believe you can build a chatbot without a human-like body and expect it to pass [for a human].”
“Brains evolved to control bodies,” Rose adds. “And all these things that we think about as being the beautiful stuff that comes from cognition, they’re all side effects of this.”

Oppo is planning on unveiling its latest flagship phone on June 10th, but whatever they announce won’t be much of a surprise, thanks to an ongoing stream of substantial leaks. In the latest news that Android Pure has obtained are the official renders for the Oppo R11, and RayArena obtained a short video of a working version of the device.
The R11  be available in at least four colors that we’ve seen: gold, rose gold, silver, and black. Earlier leaks point toward the R11 being no slouch in the specs department either:
Supposedly there   be a bigger version, the R11 Plus, which  naturally come with a larger display and bigger battery. And with 10 days left before the official announcement, it’s likely that the Plus may leak out as well.
It’s often said, by people outside Silicon Valley, that people inside Silicon Valley spend all their time solving niche problems that only affect them. When the architect of Android, Andy Rubin, whipped out a new phone at the Code Conference this week, he did little to discourage that belief. His Essential Phone is made out of titanium and ceramic and costs a distinctly premium $699 — its reason for existence, by Rubin’s own account, is that he grew frustrated with the phones made by others and wanted to do better. In a market as saturated as the one for smartphones in the United States, I find Rubin’s new venture indulgent, both for him personally and for the people buying the phone, which certainly has the look and materials of a premium product.
The Essential Phone is no threat to Apple and Samsung’s established duopoly, and Rubin’s team recognizes that, but what’s fascinating about this phone is that, even while remaining niche, it can set the blueprint for making devices in a new way.
What I see when I look at the Essential Phone — as a product rather than as a pretty gadget — is the potential to establish a new manufacturing approach for smart devices. At present, economies of scale dominate the mobile industry — every Chinese company finding success in this market finds it by selling huge volumes at razor-thin margins. Apple and Samsung have carved out reputational beachheads for themselves, allowing them to charge a brand premium, but they too rely on tight vertical integration and supply chain control. Rubin’s Essential has none of that. It’s a comparatively tiny startup with less funding than Apple makes in iPhone sales every month.
But these days being small is no longer a reason to give up (or, in Essential’s case, to not try at all). It seems like almost every week I’m discovering a new small-scale American company that’s finding profitability by producing a low volume of high-margin, premium goods. The classic example from the audio industry is Grado, a Brooklyn-based headphone manufacturer that’s still a family-run business, operating from the same location as it began many decades ago. But more recent examples abound, such as MrSpeakers, a company that got its start with just one man modifying Fostex headphones and selling his mods to an enthusiastic online community.
Then there’s the (rare, but real) phenomenon of Kickstarter turning one or two good products into respectable companies, such as in the case of the Pebble smartwatch, the Oculus Rift, and the Peak Design bags and backpacks. Granted, two out of those three wound up being acquired by larger entities — and that might be the likeliest outcome for Rubin’s Essential company — but the point stands that being small is a more viable strategy with the help of the internet than it used to be.
The lessons I’ve drawn from observing the US headphones industry is that the small companies that thrive do it by having some advantage that isn’t easy to scale up. A clever new way to make a self-repairing zipper with machinery? Forget about it, Chinese vendors  have it on Alibaba before you close your crowdfunding campaign. But what if your unique selling point is leather craftsmanship, or precise audio tuning, or some other skill that takes years to cultivate? Alternatively, you could opt for a sapphire crystal screen, as Vertu has done, or just use other fancy materials that nobody can afford to buy or produce in bulk. As Essential proposes to do.
In his Code Conference interview, Andy Rubin readily admitted to Walt Mossberg that engineering a new phone "isn’t rocket science, it’s technology evolution." He doesn’t expect to have a unique selling point based on sheer engineering genius. But his advantage is that he and his team can dedicate all their energies to perfecting a phone with a titanium frame and ceramic back, knowing very well that they’d sell only a handful of devices. Ceramic has only ever made its way into limited edition phones — like the OnePlus Ceramic X — so its use necessarily puts a cap on manufacturing volume.
Essential can  dedicate more time to investigating more exotic materials and securing less conventional supply sources. MrSpeakers, for example, stumbled upon nitinol while looking for something better than steel or aluminum for its headphone frame. Beyerdynamic, another headphone company, regularly piggybacks on orders from car suppliers: audio companies only ever need tiny amounts of metal to create their products, so they look at what’s being manufactured at scale for other industries and try to adapt it to their purposes. It’s the sort of resourcefulness that’s born out of constraints.
For Apple, Samsung, and even LG, crafting a ceramic phone is a pointless adventure that would cost way too much to pursue, owing to their decision-making hierarchies and processes. But for a small outfit like Rubin’s Essential, it can be a passionate project of refinement that ends up delivering a number of desirable intangibles for the consumer.
The buyer of an Essential Phone would know, firstly, that it’s an exclusive piece of hardware, owing to its limited production. But that production is limited because it has higher-grade materials, so that’ll be a nice feeling, too. And finally, like every other small-scale operation, whether it be an independent clothes store, bookshop, or coffee house, it just feels more natural to buy from a company that still retains some measure of human scale. Vertu makes a big deal of the fact that you can call its phone support line and speak with the actual person that assembled your phone. Essential would be wise to pursue a similar level of intimacy and approachability with its forthcoming clientele, and Rubin seems conscious of that, too, describing it as "a very pro-consumer brand."
The odds are stacked against Essential. Most smartphone buyers still walk into physical stores, where Essential has no presence, or grab whatever their carrier is serving up as the latest deal, which is another unchecked Essential box. But it’s evident that the product Rubin has created isn’t designed to win in the conventional fashion. The Essential Phone’s unlikely success would be built atop a new mode of operation for a smartphone manufacturer — it won’t be transformative for the entire industry, but it could set an interesting new blueprint for the mostly profitless Android vendors.
Yesterday, AMC announced that it is opening writers’ rooms to develop three new shows, one of which is an adaptation of Joe Hill’s vampire novel NOS4A2. Jami O’Brien, who worked on the network’s Hell on Wheels and Fear the Walking Dead,  be the show’s executive producer.
According to Deadline, the network is skipping the typical pilot process, and working on a “detailed look at a potential first season,” before deciding whether or not to greenlight the show right out of the gate. AMC first announced that it was adapting the novel back in 2015, but word that Joe Hill’s NOS4A2 is still under consideration is pretty exciting. Hill is the son of Stephen King, and he’s forged his own career as a horror author in recent years. This extremely creepy novel is one of his best to date. AMC is  developing a crime thriller, Pandora, and Silent History, about a group of children who are born without the ability to comprehend language, under the same arrangement.
Published in 2013, NOS4A2 follows a girl named Vic McQueen who has an ability to find lost objects by way of a mysterious bridge that transports her to wherever the object that she’s looking for is hiding. While she’s out searching for something, she comes across a man named Charles Talent Manx, who likes to take children for a ride in his 1938 Rolls-Royce Wraith (the title of the book comes from the car’s vanity plate), spiriting them off to an otherworldly place known as Christmasland. Vic tangles with Manx, who seems to be feeding on the children he steals.
This isn’t the only work of Hill’s that’s in development. Back in April, Hulu ordered a pilot for an adaptation of his comic series Locke & Key, to be directed by Doctor Strange filmmaker Scott Derrickson. 20th Century Fox is  developing his latest novel, The Fireman, as a film.
Last year’s reinvention of Motorola centered around the short-lived buzz over modular smartphones. Its Moto Z and Moto Mods platform were the most practical take on the modular phone concept, but they didn’t exactly ignite the smartphone world.
Hidden among this modular hype was one of the best smartphones made last year: the midrange Moto Z Play. It wasn’t the flashiest phone, didn’t have the fastest processor or best camera, and didn’t have the highest-resolution display. It did have the best battery life you could get in any smartphone, and the rest of its components were good enough that the overall package was greater than the sum of its parts. The Z Play was easily the sleeper hit of 2016 (and one of my favorite phones of all time), even if you didn’t care one bit about its modular capabilities.
This year’s version, the $499 Moto Z2 Play, available unlocked and through Verizon this summer, attempts to improve upon the first version’s weaknesses without losing the charm that made the original so appealing. It’s much thinner, much lighter, has a better camera, and comes with a refined design and a handful of new software features. It  works with all of the Mods Motorola has released — battery packs, projectors, cameras, speakers, and so on — and  release this year. The new phone basically a blend of the 2016 Z Play and the higher end Moto Z, with a price that sits between them.
The Z2 Play is better than the original in almost every respect, except for perhaps the most important area: battery life. But as I’ve found after using it as my primary phone for the past week, that doesn’t ruin the experience.
As a regular user of last year’s phone, the first thing that I noticed with the Z2 Play is how thin and light it is. This is not a small phone — it has a traditional 5.5-inch, 16:9 display, which definitely puts it on the larger side of the scale — but it measures a scant 5.99mm thick and only weighs 145g. That’s almost as thin as the higher-end Moto Z, but the extra 0.7mm in the Z2 Play affords room for a headphone jack that the Z lacked last year. More importantly, it’s a lot thinner-feeling than last year’s brick-like Z Play, and it’s much nicer to hold for long periods.
Of course, the reason the Z2 Play is so thin and light is because its battery is almost 15 percent smaller than the cell in last year’s model. There’s reasonable cause for concern here; after all, the best feature in the Z Play was its battery life. And my experience with the Z2 is not as good as the prior model: it’s not the zero-worry, multi-day monster its predecessor was.
That said, the Z2’s battery life is still excellent. I’m able to use it for a full day of heavy use — up to five or six hours of screen on time — without having to plug in for a charge in the middle of the day. Most phones typically kick the bucket after just three or four hours of screen time, so the Z2 Play is notably above average here. When I’m not constantly using my phone, such as over a quiet weekend, I can stretch the battery across two days pretty easily.
I’m okay with the trade-off Motorola made reducing the thickness and weight of the phone by using a smaller battery. The battery life is still very good — I’m not constantly thinking about it or monitoring it — and the phone is much slimmer and more comfortable to use as a result. And since the Z2 Play is compatible with the Moto Mod platform, if I do need to extend its range away from the outlet, it’s very easy to slap on a battery mod, such as the new TurboPower Pack, and keep going.
I  appreciate the other hardware improvements Motorola made here. The phone’s appearance is not much different than last year — the Moto Mods system has essentially locked Motorola into a specific design for a couple of generations — but it’s a little more polished and refined. The glass back, which was prone to scratching and damage, has been swapped for a more durable and more attractive metal finish, and the front fingerprint scanner is larger and recessed, making it easier to use.
Motorola has  upgraded the camera hardware with a faster lens and much faster focusing systems. It is a better camera than last year’s version, but even though the spec sheet is very good, the image processing doesn’t keep pace with the Pixel, iPhone, or Galaxy S8 cameras. The Z2 Play can struggle with high-contrast scenes, and its lack of optical stabilization really hurts it in low light. It’s not a bad camera at all, but it’s merely passable instead of great.
The performance from the Snapdragon 626 processor and 4GB of RAM is  fine: this isn’t blisteringly fast like high-end phones with Qualcomm’s best chips, but it doesn’t have any stutters or performance issues either. The same goes for the 1080p AMOLED display: it’s not the brightest or most pixel-dense screen available and doesn’t have curved sides or an elongated aspect ratio to display more content, but it’s sharp enough for anything short of VR and works well outdoors. The best thing about the processor and screen is that you just don’t think about them — they do the jobs they are supposed to do without any glaring faults or flaws.
Motorola’s approach to software has long been to take Google’s Android and leave it mostly untouched, save for sprinkling a few enhancements here and there. The Z2 Play has a number of useful gestures, such as a double karate chop to turn on the flashlight or a double twist action to launch the camera, both of which I use a lot. The Moto Display feature, which shows the time and notifications whenever you pick up the phone or just wave your hand over it, has been improved with a battery meter and the ability to take actions on notifications without unlocking the phone. I can even reply to a message with text or my voice right from the Moto Display, which is very convenient.
Lots of phones have the ability to work hands-free with just voice commands, and Motorola has been using this feature in its phones since 2013. The Z2 Play takes voice commands a step further: not only can you wake up the phone and use the Google Assistant with an “OK Google” command, you can  directly tell the Z2 Play to do things with a “show me” command. This can be used to check the weather (“show me the weather”), see upcoming appointments (“show me my calendar”), or launch an app (“show me Chrome”) without unlocking or even touching the phone. It only works with my voice for security, the screen lights up for just five seconds, and its uses are fairly basic, but it’s still convenient. It’s a small change, but one that makes using voice commands slightly more natural than the “say wake up word and wait” cadence we’re used to.
I’m less enthused by the new swiping gestures for the fingerprint scanner that are designed to replace the on-screen home, back, and recent apps buttons. Tapping the scanner acts as the home button, while swiping to the left goes back and swiping to the right launches the recent apps tray. It makes sense, especially the tap to go home gesture, but it’s difficult to reliably execute the swipe gestures; all too often it would take me to the home screen when I meant to go back in my app or launch the recent apps tray. Fortunately, these gestures are not enabled by default and you can use the traditional on-screen buttons without ever bothering with them. I wish that Motorola would use the areas next to the fingerprint scanner for back and recent buttons like other phone makers do, as it feels like wasted space right now.
The reason last year’s Moto Z Play was so compelling to me was that it blended stellar battery life with solid performance, good software, and a usable camera. The mix has changed a little with the Z2 Play — the battery life is not quite as stellar, while the camera is better — but the essential package is the same. It’s a very well-executed device that gets all of the basics you need in a phone correct without spoiling the recipe with gimmicks or an unreasonable price.
At $500, however, it’s not an instant purchase. It’s a lot more expensive than true budget phones and not that far off from the actual flagships that offer better displays, better cameras, and more forward-looking designs. This is especially true if you purchase a phone on a monthly payment plan: the difference between a Moto Z2 Play and a Galaxy S8 might be only a few dollars per month.
Still, the Z2 Play provides a great mix of what matters without any unnecessary stuff piled on. And it does so with better battery life than even most flagships can provide. When you think about it, isn’t that all you really want from a phone?
Motorola has announced the Moto Z2 Play, a successor to last year's sleeper hit Moto Z Play. Much like its predecessor, the Z2 Play is a midrange smartphone with a 5.5-inch display and compatibility with the Moto Mod accessory platform. It  sell for $499 and  be available from Verizon or unlocked from Motorola’s website this summer.
In addition to the Z2 Play, Motorola revealed four new Mods for its Z line of smartphones: the JBL SoundBoost 2, the Moto TurboPower Pack, Moto Style Shells with Wireless Charging, and the Moto GamePad. The SoundBoost 2, TurboPower Pack, and GamePad  sell for $79.99, while the wireless charging Style Shells are $39.99 apiece. All  be available for purchase this summer.
The Z2 Play is a thinner and lighter phone than last year’s model and it has an upgraded processor, more RAM, and a new camera. The battery is about 15 percent smaller — 3,000mAh vs. 3,510mAh — however, and it’s priced slightly higher than the Z Play was. Motorola says the phone gets up to 30 hours of battery life between charges; last year’s claim was a much higher 50 hours. The new camera should be appreciated, though, as it has a brighter, f/1.7 aperture lens, dual pixel focusing, and an improved laser focus system for low-light.
The new phone has a couple of software enhancements: it’s running Android 7.1.1 Nougat and has a Night Display feature to reduce blue light emissions in the evening. There’s  a redesigned fingerprint scanner and new voice controls that  provide information instantly without having to touch or unlock the phone.
Of the new Mods, the TurboPower Pack and GamePad are the most interesting. The TurboPower Pack brings Motorola’s quick charging features to a portable Mod: it has a 3,490mAh battery and can charge the phone at 15W speeds. A USB Type-C lets you refuel the Mod itself to 50 percent in just 20 minutes of charging.
The GamePad attaches to Moto Z phones just like any other Moto Mod and includes dual control sticks, a D-pad, and four buttons. Motorola says it was developed in partnership with the gaming division at parent company Lenovo and it has a 1,035mAh battery so it doesn’t rely on the phone’s battery for power.
The SoundBoost 2 Mod is similar in features to last year’s SoundBoost, but comes in three colors, has a fabric covering, and is now splash-resistant. It works with a new app from JBL that lets you adjust the sound coming from the speaker. The wireless charging shells  come in a variety of colors and finishes, and they support 10W fast wireless charging with compatible chargers.
Motorola has committed to launching at least a dozen new Mods this year and it still has a number of phones in its lineup that haven’t yet been updated for 2017, so we should hear more from the company as the summer progresses. Until then, be sure to check out our full review of the Moto Z2 Play for more info.
It’s got space for more than 4,000 employees, a rooftop garden with a running track, and has been dubbed a “landscraper” for being as long as a skyscraper is tall. It’s Google’s new London headquarters, the final plans of which were submitted this week to Camden council after years of back-and-forth between the tech giant and architects.
Construction on the “Zone A” development  start in 2018 at a site overlooking London’s King’s Cross railway station. The final design was created by the Bjarke Ingels Group and Heatherwick Studios (previously responsible for the 2012 London Olympic Cauldron and new-look London Routemaster buses) after Google scrapped an earlier set of plans by architects AHMM in 2013.
According to Architect’s Journal, the entire complex  cost some £1 billion. The main 11-story building  provide some 80,819 square meters of space and stretch across 330 meters of ground, sitting on a “plinth” of shops with ground-floor entrances to the offices interspersed between them. This is intended to create a “varied and open ground plane that can change with time,” according to the submitted plans.
In a statement, designer Thomas Heatherwick said he’d been inspired by the site of the new office, which functions as a hub for much of the city’s transport links.
“The area is a fascinating collision of diverse building types and spaces and I can’t help but love this mix of massive railway stations, roads, canals and other infrastructure all layered up into the most connected point in London,” said Heatherwick. “Influenced by these surroundings, we have treated this new building for Google like a piece of infrastructure too, made from a family of interchangeable elements which ensure that the building and its workspace  stay flexible for years to come.”
Inside  be all the amenities you’d expect, like cafes and meeting rooms, as well as a three-lane, 25-meter swimming pool, massage rooms, a “multi-use games area” for spots like basketball and football, and a 210-seat auditorium for product announcements and talks. The roof  be covered in a 300-meter-long garden, divided into different zones, including a “pause area” filled with wildflowers and woodland plants, a cafe, and a 200-meter “trim trail” for runners.
Currently, Google’s staff are situated in a number of different sites around London, including other properties in the King’s Cross area. (The building next door, 7 Pancras Square, is home to the company’s AI subsidiary, DeepMind.) The new building  bring together the city’s Googlers in one campus, and  be the first Google building outside of the US to be 100 percent owned and designed by the tech giant.
The company recommitted to the project following Brexit last year, with CEO Sundar Pichai saying: “Here in the UK, it’s clear to me that computer science has a great future with the talent, educational institutions, and passion for innovation we see all around us. We are committed to the UK and excited to continue our investment in our new King’s Cross campus.”


If a nuclear-tipped missile were hurtling toward the United States, would we be able to stop it? Maybe, if we were very lucky. But some experts warn that the United States’ missile defense system isn’t as reliable as people might think.
Right now, a constellation of sensors and 36 interceptor missiles make up the ground-based midcourse defense system, or GMD. It’s intended to act as insurance against a small-scale nuclear attack from North Korea, or possibly Iran, according to the Department of Defense. (Neither country has missiles capable of reaching the US, although US officials say North Korea is getting closer.) It’s not meant to ward off an unlikely attack from the much larger and more sophisticated arsenals of Russia or China — nor would it be able to.
Still, it’s the only defense we have against an intercontinental ballistic missile or ICBM once it’s in the air. On May 30th, 2017, the US tested these defenses against an ICBM-like target for the first time. To stop it, a ground-based interceptor missile fired from Vandenberg Air Force Base collided with the incoming warhead and smashed it to smithereens.
The test appears to have been a success — but that doesn’t necessarily mean the GMD could stop an enemy weapon under real-world conditions. In fact, the Government Accountability Office — a nonpartisan government agency  known as the congressional watchdog — reported in 2016 that the GMD “has not demonstrated through flight testing that it can defend the U.S. homeland against the current missile defense threat.”
Here’s what you need to know:
For a second, let’s imagine a frightening future where North Korea actually does have working ICBMs — and decides to launch one. Satellites with infrared sensors and radar systems deployed in Japan and on US Navy ships would spot the missile launch, and alert control centers in the US. Sensors, including a sea-based, high-resolution radar, would track the hostile missile as it flies.
When the missile leaves the atmosphere, it enters longest phase of its flight called the midcourse. At this point, the missile breaks up into the warhead, debris, decoys intended to confuse our sensors, and the last stage of the burned-out rocket booster.
On the other side of the Pacific, people in control centers in Alaska and Colorado would work quickly to find the warhead and figure out where to intercept it. Then, they give the order to fire interceptor missiles from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, or Fort Greely, Alaska. There are 36 interceptors stashed in silos at these two sites, each carrying a “kill vehicle” on a three-stage rocket booster. (Tom Karako, a missile defense expert with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, describes the kill vehicle as a “funny looking telescope with a jetpack attached to it.”)
As the interceptor leaves the atmosphere and enters space, the 120-pound kill vehicle and the rocket separate. Using infrared sensors to find the incoming warhead, the kill vehicle moves into the warhead’s path by firing its own little thrusters. When the two objects collide, the kill vehicle should, theoretically, obliterate the warhead without causing a nuclear detonation.
We don’t really know. Since 1999, the GMD has been tested 18 times. But the Union of Concerned Scientists argues that these were conducted under artificial conditions where the timing of the incoming missile, for example, was known in advance. (Of course, for safety reasons, you can’t exactly launch a surprise ICBM at an air force base.)
And even so, the system has failed either eight or nine of those tests, depending on whom you ask. The Department of Defense’s Missile Defense Agency says eight failures, counting a “glancing blow” delivered to a target in 2006 as a success. But the Pentagon’s director of Operational Test and Evaluation testified in a congressional hearing that it was a “hit, but not a kill” — actually destroying the target apparently wasn’t one of the test’s objectives.
That’s why Karako says that there is a need for more testing — like the one on May 30th, which tested an upgraded component of the kill vehicle. The target took off from the Marshall Islands in the Pacific, and flew toward the US with the speed and trajectory of an ICBM. An interceptor missile launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California collided with the target and destroyed it. Laura Grego, a global security expert for the Union of Concerned Scientists with a background in physics, says the GMD system has been described as like “hitting a bullet with a bullet.” She adds: “It’s amazing that we ever actually do it.”
The difficulty is compounded by the fact that the interceptor missiles are essentially advanced prototypes, Karako says. “I think fundamentally what has challenged the program is the lost opportunities to go back and improve upon the basic design that was fielded back in 2004,” he says. “Everybody knows that that’s what needs to be done, and now finally we’re on a path to getting there — but we have to keep at it.”
For decades the US went back and forth about whether, and how, to defend itself against incoming missiles. Ever since the US developed the atomic bomb in 1945, our best defense has been the prospect of devastating nuclear retaliation.
But to supplement this game of nuclear chicken, the Army asked Bell Labs in 1955 to start looking into possibilities for an antiballistic missile system. Since then, the US very briefly deployed nuclear-tipped interceptors designed to stop incoming missiles in their tracks with a nuclear explosion. In the ‘80s, Ronald Reagan announced his famous “Star Wars” plan — which included a proposal for an X-ray space laser powered by a nuclear detonation (it never got off the ground).
An anti-ballistic missile treaty signed by the US and the Soviet Union in 1972 — plus scientific and technological challenges — stopped us from getting serious about defending against an ICBM attack. There was  the concern that a sophisticated defense system could fuel a race for weapons that could overpower it.
The Clinton administration started making moves toward a National Missile Defense in the 1990s. But the real push came after 9/11, when George Bush pulled out of the anti-ballistic missile treaty and fast-tracked what became the GMD. This, Grego and her colleagues at the Union of Concerned Scientists argue, is what set the system up for failure by rushing missiles that were essentially still prototypes into silos. Karako counters that the speed of the rollout was necessary: “We are uning, as a nation, to accept vulnerability, complete vulnerability, to be blackmailed by North Korea. So we're going to do what we can to have some defenses, and we're going to improve it over time.”
Because interceptors were rushed out before rigorous testing, the Missile Defense Agency had to go back and fix them as flight tests uncovered issues. And those fixes have been both expensive, and incremental — so not all the missiles have the same hardware, according to a 2014 report by the Pentagon’s director of Operational Testing. It went on to say: “The reliability and availability of the operational [ground based interceptors] is low, and the MDA continues discovering new failure modes during testing.” Chris Johnson, a spokesperson with the MDA, says that the agency upgrades systems once new improvements are designed.
One of those upgrades was to address a pretty serious design flaw discovered a few years ago that caused the vibrations from the thrusters to throw off the kill vehicles’ navigation. That made the kill vehicle more likely to miss the warhead it was designed to intercept. A fix for the thrusters was flight-tested in 2016 — and it was described as a success until an LA Times investigation revealed that, in fact, one of the thrusters had failed and thrown the interceptor way off target. (“We disagree with that characterization of the 2016 test,” Johnson says. “The test met its objective, and the thruster performed as designed.”‎)
The next challenge was to see whether the upgraded kill vehicle could actually hit an ICBM-like target as intended — and it did, the Missile Defense Agency reports. But again, it was under pretty ideal conditions: the test took place during the day, there was only one ICBM-like missile, we knew where it was coming from, and where it was going. And, since it’ll likely take several interceptors to destroy an incoming warhead, the next hurdle to clear  be for the Pentagon to fire several missiles that  need to work together to stop one target.
That depends on who you ask. If you ask Grego and her colleagues at the Union of Concerned Scientists, it means that the Missile Defense Agency needs more oversight. It should be required to test its acquisitions before it buys them, like many other defense programs. “They're meant to be tested first and put through their paces before they're bought and put into the field,” she says.
In the meantime, the government should avoid statements about the GMD that give a false sense of security, Grego says. The DoD's 2010 Ballistic Missile Defense Review said that "the United States is currently protected against limited ICBM attacks." A Senate report in 2015 said the GMD protects the entire US against an attack from North Korea or Iran. That’s not true. At least, not yet, according to the GAO, that says, “GMD flight testing, to date, was insufficient to demonstrate that an operationally useful defense capability exists.”
But Karako at the Center for Strategic and International Studies disagrees: “I don’t think anybody takes this lightly. This is a form of insurance policy. You don’t have fire insurance and then go lighting matches around your house recklessly.” Instead, he argues that the Missile Defense Agency needs to go back and methodically fix the interceptors based on what we’ve learned from testing the GMD, as well as from regional missile technologies.
“There’s been a number of decision points along the way, when the opportunity to fix these very fixable things could have been taken, but wasn’t,” he says. “I don’t think anybody really disputes that.” Making the system more reliable  take more frequent testing, a culture that allows those tests to fail, and enough breathing room to actually implement the fixes.
Still, it’s pretty clear that regardless of how the GMD performed on May 30th, the best option we have against an ICBM attack is never getting to that point in the first place.
Update June 1, 2017 9AM ET: This post, originally published May 30th, 2017, has been updated to include a video and the results of the May 30th GMD intercept test.
We now have a release date and price for the Connect Home, Samsung's attempt to marry a router with a SmartThings hub. The unassuming Samsung Connect Home is meant to sit out in the open to blanket your home in a mesh of Wi-Fi for data, and Zigbee and Z-Wave for wireless control over all your compatible home automation devices. Samsung Connect Home goes up for preorder at BestBuy.com starting Sunday, June 4th, and  be sold in a variety of configurations.
The Pro model features a 4x4 MU-MIMO antenna and a max speed of 1.7 Gbps, while the others come equipped with a 2x2 MU-MIMO antenna array and a slower processor for a max speed of 866 Mbps. Samsung says up to five Samsung Connect Home devices can be connected at once to cover 7,500 square feet of space, though it's unclear if the Pro devices can be included in that meshy mix.
You can take a Samsung Connect Home home starting on July 2nd at Best Buy stores and BestBuy.com.
Today Plex is taking the wraps off its first live television offering: Plex Live TV, now available in beta. Combined with Plex DVR, the Plex platform is even more compelling for people hoping to cut the cord from their cable company. With today's announcement, Plex is now a one-stop shop for live and recorded television, in addition to personal videos, images, and music, accessible from just about any device with a screen.
In addition to a Plex Pass subscription, Plex Live TV requires a digital tuner (and antenna) to suck down that free over-the-air signal — an option I’ll bet most of you have largely forgotten about. Once procured, you'll have access to local news, live sports, and 86 of the 100 most popular US network television shows, according to Plex; from channels like ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, PBS, Univision, Telemundo, and many more.
Viewing Live TV is currently limited to Plex iOS devices, Android TV users, and the Nvidia Shield. By the end of June, Plex should be ready to support Live TV on Apple TV and Android mobile, according to Scott Olechowski, Chief Product Officer and Plex co-founder. Olechowski  says that Plex Pass subscribers should be able to timeshift Live TV in "another month or so."
I've been testing the Live TV beta for the last few days with an HDHomeRun Extend digital tuner, and a macOS Plex Media Server streaming the live broadcasts to my iPhone. I can tell you that it works. Yesterday my streams were rock solid, but this morning I saw some buffering hiccups while watching live BBC and CNN broadcasts from my home in The Netherlands — I’d get about one to two seconds of buffering pauses after roughly three minutes of viewing, on average. I should  point out that I've watched more live television in the past few days than I have in the last few years so I’m not really the audience for this. Still, I can see the appeal for people who want that live TV fix, especially when factoring in Plex DVR recordings and future timeshifting support.
Plex likes to play up the "free TV" angle of today's announcement but its Live and DVR solutions are far from free. First you'll need to pony-up for a Plex Pass subscription at $4.99 each month, $39.99 a year, or $119.99 for a lifetime. You'll  need to buy a compatible digital tuner (and antenna) — a one-time cost that  run between about $70 and $180 depending upon the features and quality you want. Oh, and you'll need to keep your Plex Media server running all day in your home (consuming electricity) or in the cloud (consuming GBs).
Hey, nobody said cutting the cord would be cheap, but it is getting easier.
Misfit has launched a new tool that lets users personalize their wearables more easily. M.Y Misfit lets customers change the color, strap style, and material of a range of Misfit products, with the company claiming that a total of “600 unique possible combinations” are available. Colors include Jet, Rose Tone, Silver, Midnight, and Champagne, and strap styles range from leather to silicone to paracord.
The new tool works with the following Misfit products:
The tool is a nice addition to Misfit’s line of products, which have always been among the most attractive available. Whether it’ll help the company in a squeezed market, where firms are buying one another to stay relevant, is another question entirely.
So you’ve just come across an amazing GIF. Ridiculous! How could someone make such a weird face? But now you’re left with one big question: where’d it come from? Usually, you’d have to do a reverse image search, or leave a comment and ask, but now Giphy has a much more elegant solution: just click the GIF and have it switch over to the source video. Then, you can watch exactly where it came from.
This new feature is launching in a very limited capacity. For one, it’ll only work on GIFs that have been made through Giphy’s GIF maker (or manually given an attribution link) and embedded using Giphy’s native GIF player. On top of that, it’ll only work with Vimeo videos at launch. That said, all existing Giphy embeds that meet these requirements  automatically be updated with the ability to switch over to the source video, so you may start seeing this around right away.
Here’s an example:
Theoretically, Giphy  add support for YouTube and other common video players over time (it seems like a hard get, but you can even imagine this working with Netflix). But for some odd reason, nothing else is supported just yet. That makes this feature a lot less useful at launch, especially since it seems safe to guess that a very large portion of Giphy’s GIFs originated with YouTube videos.
“This is the first step, you should expect to see other platform compatibility rolling out quickly,” Jason Stein, Giphy’s director of business development, says in an emailed statement. “Ultimately, we want this technology to work across the internet.”
Giphy says that money isn’t changing hands as a result of its partnership with Vimeo on this feature. Stein says collaborations like this “are very symbiotic relationships where we explore organic ways to work together.”
Update June 1st, 1:10PM ET: This story has been updated with additional comment from Giphy.
It used to be a rite of passage after every holiday: grab some photos from the trip, upload them to Facebook, and see what likes and comments they get. Even now, my account is home to a dozen-plus moth-balled albums of this kind. There’s “france 2008” — a failed attempt to hitch-hike around the country that saw a friend and I get less than 100 miles out of Calais; “nepal”, “nepal deux”, and “nepal finarly” — a gap-year trilogy of cliché that spans mountains, monks, and one misjudged mohawk; and “leeds fest ‘07” which is equal parts mud and obscenities.
But, on the way back from my most recent holiday (call it “Hurriedly Organized Week Away, Italy 2017”) it struck me that there would be no Facebook album to follow. And that there hadn’t been in years.
There are a number of reasons for this, with the first so prominent and obvious it may as well be tattooed across the forehead of the internet: Facebook isn’t cool any more. Other, corollary explanations include the fact I no longer use the site to communicate with friends, and that I’m more wary than I was when younger of leaving a semi-permanent record of my life online. The final reason is simply that I now use other apps to share my holiday photos.
In Italy, I used Instagram stories for day-to-day updates (look at this weird fish! I’m eating cheese! Ruins!!), and WhatsApp for sending pics to specific people (aka, my mum). Both apps are owned by Facebook of course. The company’s tactics of buying up any would-be competitors and shamelessly copying rivals’ features work. It’s why Instagram Stories now has more daily users than Snapchat, and why, despite the fact that I longer upload holiday snaps directly to Facebook, the company still controls them in a roundabout way.
All this made me wonder, though, what’s next for my post-vacation photos? It feels like Facebook’s offerings have grown up with me, mirroring my new preferences for increased privacy and ephemerality, but I’m starting to wonder if I’m just less interested in digital sharing altogether.
After getting back from Italy and scrolling through the photos on my camera roll, the first thing I thought was: “It would be nice to see these photos in person.” And wouldn’t you know it, both Apple and Google offer easy ways to turn digital pictures into physical albums. It makes sense. Most of the people in my life who might actually want to see these snaps, I’ll meet in person one time or another. And despite the addictive nature of social networks, with the sense of validation and low-key contact they offer, photos tend to mean the most to the people who actually took them. Otherwise I’m just providing a distraction to friends I haven’t seen in years, scrolling through Instagram Stories while bored at work.
Maybe killing off my Facebook holiday album is just an intermediary step. Maybe I don’t need to share my digital photos at all. Maybe, just maybe, it’s time to order some prints.
Microsoft’s Rewards program is launching in the UK today. Originally only available in the US, Microsoft is now letting British users accrue points for using its Bing search engine. The points can then be transferred to a number of different rewards, including Xbox digital gift cards, Groove Music passes, and Skype credit. Microsoft is  partnering with a number of UK charities so you can donate points to these organizations instead.
Microsoft Rewards works almost identically in the UK as it does in the US. You’ll get 3 points per Bing search, and this is doubled (until August 15th) if you’re using Microsoft Edge. You can obtain a maximum of 30 points per day (60 points using Edge) through searches, or participate in quizzes to gain more. Microsoft  gives out 1 point for every pound spend at the UK online Microsoft Store. If you manage to hit 500 points in a month, there’s a second level with better rewards and the ability to earn a maximum of 150 points a day.
The entire Microsoft Rewards scheme is designed to get people using Bing. It’s one of a number of ways Microsoft attempts to convince consumers to use its search engine, alongside setting it as default in Microsoft Edge and promoting it throughout Windows 10. Microsoft Rewards is available in the UK today, with a launch in France, Germany, and Canada planned in the coming months.
Logitech's MX Master and MX Anywhere are considered by many to be some of the best mice for professional work on the market. Today, Logitech announced updated versions of both models in the MX line: the MX Master 2S and MX Anywhere 2S.
Both mice feature improved hardware over their predecessors. The sensor has been upgraded from 1,000 DPI to 4,000, resulting in a faster and smoother tracking experience, and battery life has been nearly doubled from 40 days up to 70. The two mice are otherwise largely similar to the previous version, with the same design, excellent mechanical scroll wheels, and button layouts (although the new black-and-gray color is certainly preferable to the odd black/bronze model from the last generation.)
But the biggest addition is a new software feature called Logitech Flow. While the previous versions of the MX mice were capable of quickly switching between multiple computers at the press of a button on the bottom, Flow takes it a step further, by seamlessly allowing the mouse to switch between two different computers just like a single computer switching between two monitors. So, simply drag your mouse over to the edge of one computer, and the cursor  seamlessly pop up on the other computer automatically. It’s basically a software version of the old keyboard-video-mouse (KVM) hardware switches that have been around for years.
While I don't personally use multiple computers at the same time, according to Logitech, over 39% of adults in the US do, for purposes like programming, video editing, and stock trading. And if you do use multiple computers like this, then Flow is a pretty slick trick.
Flow works by linking two computers connected to the same Wi-Fi network, and is compatible with both Macs and PCs at the same time. Things like copying and pasting text, images, or even whole files works across the computers — in a hands on demo, I saw a single mouse copy from a TextEdit document on a MacBook Pro and paste it to a Surface sitting next to it.
Flow  is compatible with several other Logitech mice, including M585 Multi-Device and M590 Multi-Device Silent, along with several keyboards (the Flow software uses the mouse location to decide which computer the keyboard inputs to.)
The MX Master 2S is available now for $99.99, while the MX Anywhere 2S sells for $79.99.
One of the most interesting news stories to come out of Computex Taipei, for my money, was Nvidia’s Max-Q — it’s a whole new design approach to gaming laptops, helping manufacturers put powerful GPUs like the GTX 1080 inside slim notebooks. It was a little amusing, then, to see Zotac use the same show to announce the world’s smallest version of Nvidia’s fastest gaming GPU: behold the Zotac GeForce GTX 1080 Ti Mini, which absolutely  not fit into any laptop.
It’s not a fair comparison, of course: Nvidia’s laptop GPUs are already clocked lower than their desktop counterparts to reduce the need for giant cooling systems like you see here, and Max-Q devices use software to further optimize their performance. Zotac’s GTX 1080 Ti Mini is for PC builders who aren’t ing to compromise on power but still want a reasonably small system — at 8.3 inches long, it shouldn’t have any problem fitting into a mini ATX tower.
The card’s size is more impressive when you view it next to the rest of Zotac’s hulking GTX 1080 Ti range, as seen below. Zotac hasn’t announced pricing or availability just yet.
Silk Road founder Ross Ulbricht is set to serve life in prison after he lost his court appeal this week. Ulbricht earned seven convictions — including money laundering and narcotics conspiracy — for operating the drug marketplace in 2015, filing his appeal later that same year, and arguing it in court in 2016.
Ulbricht’s appeal claimed that the court should not have seen documents obtained in alleged breach of Fourth Amendment rights, and that it made mistakes during his trial process that should have led to a mistrial. Ulbricht —  known as “Dread Pirate Roberts” online —  contended that the lifetime sentence handed down by the judge was unreasonable, forcing him to spend longer in prison than others convicted of similar charges.
In this case, his sentence is unusually long due to a “kingpin” charge prosecutors were able to make stick — a conviction usually reserved for major cartel leaders designed to ensure they remain behind bars for the rest of their lives. While Ulbricht himself wasn’t a major drug dealer in the classic mold, the hefty sentence shows how law enforcement officials saw his Silk Road network, and how it helped to redefine the global narcotics black market.

“Gluten-free” labels are mostly reliable, the Food and Drug Administration announced on Tuesday. That sounds like a no-brainer — of course foods labeled as gluten free shouldn’t have any gluten in them, right? But that hasn’t always been the case; I can tell you, as a person with celiac disease, that it’s a relief to find out the labels are actually meaningful these days.
Since 2014, the FDA has required that anything labeled “gluten free” contain no more than 20 molecules of gluten in every million molecules of foodstuff. And to back up that requirement, it actually goes out and checks. Of the 250 different cereals, flours, baking mixes, and granola bars it tested from 2015 through 2016, only one product contained more gluten than allowed, according to the results that the FDA released this week. The sole gluten-containing product, which STAT identified as Honey Nut Cheerios, was promptly recalled and General Mills changed how it made the cereal. When the FDA tested it again: no more gluten.
Before 2014, a “gluten-free” label was more a decoration than a promise. Of course these days, it seems like everyone and their dogs are on gluten-free diets. But when I was diagnosed with celiac disease 14 years ago, it was the dark ages before Miley Cyrus called gluten “crapppp” on Twitter and McGnaw the Gluten Free Beaver danced on The Colbert Report. To find out if something was truly safe to eat, I had to test it myself.
Back then, no one knew what the hell I was saying when I asked whether a food was gluten free. (I still remember a confused waiter responding, “No, you have to pay for it.”) I’d have to explain that gluten is a type of protein in wheat, rye, and barley. In certain people, it can trigger an autoimmune reaction that obliterates the lining of their guts and makes them feel like crap for days. So, does this salad come with the croutons already mixed in, or can I get it without them?
The hard part about sticking to a gluten-free diet wasn’t cutting out the usual gluten-containing suspects. By the time my doctor figured out was wrong with me, I was so sick I couldn’t even stand the smell of baking bread or a boiling pot of pasta. No, the hard part was figuring out where sneakier gluten was lurking. Was it floating in soy sauce? Beefing up the volume of spices? Mixed into the medications I use every day? Hiding in difficult-to-decipher ingredients like modified food starch, or maybe tocopherol?
That’s why it was such a bummer that the “gluten-free” label didn’t mean anything concrete. It was enough to make you paranoid that the evil protein was everywhere, just waiting to send you running to the nearest bathroom. (Or leave you straining in that bathroom for days, depending on your body’s favorite flavor of gluten reaction.)
So, my parents bought test kits, which made for a fun family science experiment where bad lab technique could mean diarrhea later on. We’d smash up little bits of food at the dinner table, stick the mess in some sort of liquid, plop in a dipstick, and wait until we could see a positive or negative readout. For whatever reason, anything with apples always came up positive with the particular test kit we used. I don’t know if the test just wasn’t specific enough and these were false positives, or if apple juice and apple sauce really were frequently contaminated. I mostly stayed away from them, just in case.
That all changed in 2013, when the FDA told manufacturers their products needed to contain less than 20 parts per million of gluten if they wanted to say it was gluten free. And in 2014, the FDA started enforcing the rule — presumably with better equipment than I had. I haven’t used a test kit in years, anyway, and this week’s announcement reassured me I don’t have to: I can continue eating foods labeled gluten free, confident that I won’t need to plan the next few days around where the nearest toilets are. I could even eat gluten-free apple sauce, if I wanted to. But, really, I’m good.

President Donald Trump has yet to make a formal announcement on whether the US  remain part of the world’s largest climate commitment, but Apple CEO Tim Cook today joined the growing list of executives calling Trump to ask him not to back out. According to Bloomberg, Cook placed a call to the White House yesterday to try and convince the president that the 2015 Paris Agreement, which aims to lower greenhouse gases and mitigate the risks of climate change, was in the best interest of the country’s economic sector. News of Trump privately coming to the decision to withdraw the US from the agreement was first reported by Axios early this morning.
Cook’s plea aligns with that of more than 25 major companies’ executives who have all signed a letter in favor of the climate pact to be published as a full-page ad tomorrow in both The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Though both Apple as a corporation and Cook in his personal capacity have been outspoken proponents of environmental protection, it appears Cook, as well as many other executives, are trying to appeal to Trump’s nationalistic tendencies by implying that the US would put at a global disadvantage by pulling out of the Paris Agreement, according to Bloomberg. Apple was not immediately available for comment.
Alongside Cook, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk  voiced his displeasure with the possibility of the US leaving the climate accord. On Twitter earlier today, Musk wrote, “Don't know which way Paris  go, but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH & via councils, that we remain.” Musk was asked what his reaction would be if Trump does decide to withdraw the US from the Paris Agreement. He responded, “ have no choice but to depart councils in that case.” As it stands, Musk advises the president’s Manufacturing Jobs Initiative and his Strategic and Policy Forum.
Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen has spent the last six years working on a giant aircraft capable of launching rockets to space. Today, his company Stratolaunch Systems literally rolled that plane out of its hangar in the Mojave Desert for the first time ever.
It’s called the Stratolaunch aircraft, and it’s massive. The plane has a 385-foot wingspan, which makes it the largest in the world by that metric. It weighs about 500,000 pounds dry, but that can swell to a maximum takeoff weight of 1.3 million pounds. Stratolaunch moves all that weight across the ground on 28 wheels, and eventually  carry its cargo through the air thanks to six 747 aircraft engines.
Why so big? Allen plans to use the Stratolaunch plane as an airborne rocket launcher. Instead of taking off from a launchpad, which requires lots of fuel, Stratolaunch  give rockets a head start by first carrying them up into the sky. It’s already got one customer, too — private spaceflight company Orbital ATK inked a deal with Stratolaunch Systems last October to use the giant plane as a launcher for its Pegasus XL rocket, which is used to send small satellites into space.
Here's video of the first roll out of the world's largest plane. pic.twitter.com/RJarl0dFRJ
The idea is similar to Allen’s first space venture, SpaceShipOne. That aircraft won Allen and his partners the Ansari X Prize in 2004, a competition started by the X Prize Foundation to create the first private reusable spacecraft. SpaceShipOne  went on to serve as the basis for the spacecraft used by Richard Branson’s spaceflight company Virgin Galactic. (Virgin Galactic  recently spun off its own air-launcher project into a company called Virgin Orbit, which uses a single 747 aircraft to launch rockets to space.)
But before Stratolaunch takes Orbital’s (or anyone else’s) rockets for a ride, it has to finish testing the aircraft. Today was just about removing the plane’s support scaffolding, letting its wheels experience the full weight of the craft for the first time, and getting it out the door. “This was a crucial step in preparing the aircraft for ground testing, engine runs, taxi tests, and ultimately first flight,” the company wrote on its website. If all that goes well, Stratolaunch could perform its first demonstration flight in 2019.
One of my favorite gadgets at CES this January was the Norton Core. Not exactly for what it claims to accomplish — securing a home network filled with vulnerable IoT devices — but because it looks so weird while doing it.
BullGuard, the antivirus company, is now on the scene with Dojo, its own network security hardware, which offers an even stranger form factor. The core idea is the same: Dojo sits in between your modem and Wi-Fi router — or jacks straight into your ISP's router if you use that — and takes over network management and firewall duties. With the accompanying app, you can check on the security status of your network, approve new devices asking to join the Wi-Fi, and adjust other settings.
What makes Dojo weird is the included Dojo Pebble, which takes four AA batteries and communicates wirelessly with the base station. The Pebble lights up green if your network is good, orange if there's a problem with malware or another threat that Dojo's software knows how to deal with, and red if manual intervention is required — like authorizing access. There don’t seem to be any additional smarts in the Pebble, which is confusing because in some of the videos on the Dojo YouTube channel it looks like the Pebble is responsible for scanning and mapping your Wi-Fi, which wouldn’t make any sense.
BullGuard claims Dojo can spot strange network behavior and stop it in its tracks, using machine learning and crowdsourced information in the cloud gleaned from other (anonymous) Dojo users. Specific devices Dojo is meant to safeguard include TVs, baby monitors, connected cameras, thermostats, and, of course, regular old computers and phones.
Dojo costs $199.99 and is available for order today, according to Wired, but Amazon lists an expected ship date of one to two months from now.
Sara M. Lyons, a California-based illustrator and designer, has accused Snapchat of ripping off her design for one of its filters. The design in question, a pair of hands making the “whatever” sign, was a filter available to some users last night and this morning.
Lyons points out on Twitter that although her original design is fairly simple, the finger placement in Snapchat’s filter (above) and her own illustration (below) is very similar. Lyons says Snapchat’s filter looks like a traced and flipped version of her illustration.
before it was anything else it was just a drawing i did in february 2013. i coined the phrase, i hold the copyright, IT'S MINE. pic.twitter.com/oJbPL3iIiF
“I had about a dozen DMs about it on my Instagram when I woke up this morning,” Lyons told The Verge via email. “I might not have noticed it on my own because I don't use Snapchat every day, but I'm fortunate to have lots of friends and followers who recognize my work.”
Lyons says she has officially registered the design with the US Copyright Office; she  sells pins of it in her online store.
This is not the first time Snapchat has been accused of stealing the work of indie artists. In 2016, The Ringer’s Molly McHugh reported that Snapchat was apparently cribbing filter ideas from makeup artists and other graphic artists. That same year, a colorful geometric face filter appeared to heavily borrow from the work of Russian artist Alexander Khokhlov. Snapchat eventually removed the filter, calling it an “embarrassing mistake.”
how gross and sad that @Snapchat couldn't just commission ME for this filter lol u know they can afford it
In the Ringer report, McHugh notes that it would be difficult to argue a court case against Snapchat for copyright infringement because it’s tough to “quantify the value of a filter.” On Twitter, Lyons has asked Snapchat to get in touch with her personally.
“It'd be amazing if Snapchat reached out directly to make things right,” Lyons said. “However, my copyright has been infringed on this piece and others countless times since 2013, and in my experience it's pretty rare that brands do right by artists in cases like these. I like Snapchat, so hopefully they'll be one of the exceptions to the rule.”
When reached for comment, a Snapchat spokesperson provided the following statement to The Verge: “We became aware of similarities between a new Snapchat Geofilter and one of Ms. Lyons' designs early today. While there are important differences between the two designs, out of respect for Ms. Lyons we decided to disable the filter immediately while we investigated. It was removed from Snapchat this morning.”
Update 6:28PM ET: Updated to add Snapchat’s statement.
Hillary Clinton says that Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos “saved” The Washington Post by buying it in 2013, setting an example that more tech moguls should follow. “I think Jeff Bezos saved The Washington Post,” she said, during an interview with Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher at Recode’s Code Conference. “I think a lot of people, a lot of his peers and friends, thought — why would you buy this ancient medium called a newspaper? But newspapers like the Post, the Journal, the Times, a few others, still drive news. It drives news online, drives news on TV.”
“I think it was a very good use of his financial resources,” Clinton continued. “Because now we have a very good newspaper again operating in Washington, and driving news elsewhere.”
The topic came up during a discussion of how Democrats can compete with Republicans’ strong local television and radio presence. “You would be a great advisor to one or more of our tech billionaires who want to buy some media,” Clinton joked to Mossberg. “Well then, we're going to have to find other people who  compete against what is a considerable advantage on the other side,” she said when he demurred.
Since Trump’s inauguration, The Washington Post has broken several potentially damaging political scoops about the administration, including a recent allegation that Trump advisor and son-in-law Jared Kushner proposed creating a communication back channel with Russia after the election. Clinton praised Bezos for the paper’s reporting, saying he was “hands-off on the editorial and content front, and he's basically said, ‘Get out there and do investigations.’ And they're doing some of the best investigations about what's going on with the White House now.”
Hillary Clinton, in an interview at Recode’s Code Conference earlier today, said she believes that Russia was “guided by Americans” in the way that it weaponized information during the final days of her presidential campaign against Donald Trump.
“Seventeen agencies, all in agreement, concluded with high confidence that the Russians ran an extensive information war campaign against my campaign to influence voters in the election,” Clinton said. She went on to say that, in her opinion and based on intelligence, Russia could not have known how to weaponize that information “unless they had been guided by Americans.”
Clinton noted that within one hour of the leak of the infamous Access Hollywood tapes — in which now-President Donald Trump spoke crudely about his nonconsensual sexual assault against women — “the Russians or say WikiLeaks — same thing — dumped the John Podesta emails."
Russia’s potential meddling in the November 2016 US presidential election is still being investigated by government agencies, with attention focused most recently on Jared Kushner, Donald Trump’s son-in-law who reportedly suggested opening a communications channel with Russian officials last year. It has been reported that other advisors and members of Trump’s campaign staff may have had indirect ties to Russian officials as well.
Clinton, who lost the electoral vote to Trump, has been reemerging to make more public appearances in recent weeks, giving a commencement speech at Wellesley College and granting access to New York magazine for a candid profile. She has mentioned a variety of factors that may have contributed to her loss, including Russia’s involvement, targeted fake news stories, persistent sexism, and a lack of inherited data from the Democratic National Committee, which has led some critics to say that Clinton has not expressed enough self-blame for the loss.




Sling TV has updated its live, streaming TV app with a straightforward grid of channel listings in an attempt to simplify the viewing experience for users. “Believe it or not, following DVR, the grid guide has consistently been our most requested feature from Sling TV customers,” the company said in a blog post announcing the new feature, which it readily admits is far from revolution.
But in all honesty, it’s pretty easy to believe that customers have been asking for a traditional electronic programming guide (EPG) that’s similar to what you’d find on a basic cable box. Sling TV’s interface has always been under-developed and somewhat befuddling to subscribers. The Dish-owned company tried to address this with an overhauled user experience at CES 2016, but bringing over the tried-and-true guide — a request second only to DVR in popularity — shows that Sling’s own approach wasn’t doing an adequate job for everyone. Customers who prefer the previous UI can easily switch back, however.
Sling TV rivals including DirecTV Now, PlayStation Vue, and YouTube TV already offer straightforward channel guides to make the switch from cable TV to streaming feel a little more familiar. Hulu’s live TV service excludes one by design, however. Before, you could perhaps look past Sling TV’s undercooked UX because of the service’s low price point. A guide should alleviate some of the confusion around actually using the product.
Sling TV is  making the “On Now” screen more useful by sorting live programming based on what’s popular with other users. A show that’s trending with other customers  be surfaced first so you can start streaming it faster. Like the guide, this is something that many cable providers (and Sling’s own parent company) already do. And to better highlight its vault of on-demand shows and movies, Sling TV   be adding a “Featured” row for each category to the MyTV tab.
All of these changes are available on Android first — right now, in fact — and  come to Sling TV’s app on other devices in the near future.
Apple’s answer to the Amazon Echo lineup and Google Home has advanced to the manufacturing stage, according to Bloomberg. The report says that a WWDC unveiling for the product remains possible, but Apple won’t be shipping the device until later in the year.
Aside from what we’ve heard about the “Siri speaker” before (such as deep HomeKit integration and the ability to control smart home gadgets), today’s Bloomberg report says that Apple is placing a heavy emphasis on sound quality. The unannounced produced  supposedly include “virtual surround sound technology” and “more advanced acoustics” than its chief competitors made by Amazon and Google. That suggests Apple Music   play a key role alongside the product’s Siri and HomeKit features.
Apple has “considered including sensors that measure a room’s acoustics and automatically adjust audio levels during use,” the report claims. That sounds somewhat similar to the TruePlay feature available from Sonos speakers, which uses a microphone on a mobile device to optimize sound output for that specific environment.
Apple’s WWDC keynote is coming up quickly; the event is happening this Monday starting at 10AM PT/1PM ET. The Verge  be there to cover all the news that Apple has to share — be it new software (iOS 11, macOS), MacBook Pro updates, this long-rumored speaker, or something else entirely.
Members of a Tijuana motorcycle club have spent the last few years stealing 150 Jeep Wranglers in and around the San Diego, California, area. But it’s only just this week that federal and state authorities have shed light on the particularly high-tech methods the bikers used to thieve all those cars.
The thefts date back to 2014, and each one involved a multiple-step process. First, the bikers would scout for the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) of Jeeps they wanted to steal. Then, they turned to a database maintained by the manufacturer.
It’s unclear how they gained access to the database, according to the San Diego Union Tribune, which mentions that a dealership in Cabo San Lucas “appears to be involved.” However they got it, though, it’s that access that made the thefts possible. Armed with a car’s VIN number, the thieves were able match both the pattern of the physical key as well as a code used to access (and program) the chip inside the key that talks to the car’s computer.
At this point, the thieves would return to each Jeep with a duplicate key in hand. Once the key was in the ignition, they were able to program the key’s chip using the code from the database in order to turn the Jeeps on.
The Jeeps were then brought back — whole, or in stripped parts — to Mexico to be sold. All told, $4.5 million worth of Jeep Wranglers were stolen by the group. Three of the nine members of the biker club who were indicted have been arrested, while the rest are still on the run in Mexico. Seven of the nine are US citizens.
The chips that automakers use in car keys have been the subject of a number of attacks in recent years. In 2015, researchers from Radboud University in the Netherlands and the University of Birmingham in the UK found that the “keyless entry” key fobs for certain cars made by Volkswagen, Fiat, Honda, Volvo, Porsche, and even Bentley were vulnerable to being hacked.

In an interview today at Code Conference, Hillary Clinton urged social media platforms to figure out new ways to slow “the weaponization and manipulation” of information, admitting at the same time that it was a difficult problem to solve.
“I have a lot of sympathy at this point… for people trying to make these decisions,” she said toward the end of her interview with Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg. “I would just urge them to hurry up.”
She encouraged platforms to err “more on the curating, editorial decision-making” side of the equation, “instead of being overwhelmed by the challenge.”
The comments from Clinton came after a long discussion on how those platforms may have affected her chances during the 2016 election, as Clinton looked back on her data and analytics team. “What we thought we were doing was going to Obama 3.0 — better targeting, better messaging,” she said of the team, which had largely been carried over from Obama’s successful 2008 and 2012 campaigns. But that strategy, she claimed, was met and matched by a strategy that included spreading false information. “We weren’t in the same category as the other side,” she said.
Clinton used the example of the hack of her campaign chairman John Podesta’s emails, which she said were “anodyne” but led to conspiracy theories. Websites like Infowars manufactured the “most outrageous, outlandish, absurd lies you can imagine,” she said.
“The other side was using content that was just flat-out false and delivering it in a very personalized way,” she said, adding that she could “understand why people on their Facebook pages” could see a false story about her and not question it.
"If I put myself in the position of running a platform like Facebook, first of all, they've got to get back to trying to curate it more effectively,” she said. “Put me out of the equation, they've got to help prevent fake news from creating a new reality that does influence how people think of themselves, see the world, the decisions that they make.”
How fake news ultimately affected the election hasn’t been fully determined. Although the majority of fake news stories appears to have favored Donald Trump, one study released after the election questioned how much that false information may have changed voters’ minds, suggesting that any effect it had was minor. (At one point late in the talk, Clinton herself even seemed to allude to debunked claims that Trump had gained millions of fake Twitter followers.)
Clinton has mostly maintained a low profile since the election, and her interview at Code is one of her first major appearances. Last week, she  gave the commencement speech at Wellesley College, her alma mater.
Wacom introduced two new styluses today, one optimized for Windows 10 and another for iOS devices. Bamboo Ink, the Windows Ink stylus, is designed for writing, although it comes with three different nibs — soft, medium, and firm — for different feels. The pen works with lots of Windows devices, which Wacom says it’ll list online.
We could have anticipated this new pen given that Microsoft announced at Build earlier this month that it was expanding what people can do with their styluses. They can use the pen to interact with the Edge browser, navigate windows, write in text boxes, navigate, scroll, and select text, among other things.
Wacom is  catering to iOS users. The Bamboo Sketch has a swappable fine tip and is for sketching or drawing on an iPad or iPhone. It pairs over Bluetooth and is pressure sensitive, even on iPads other than the iPad Pro that don’t support the Apple Pencil. The Sketch charges over a custom magnetic connector and USB, and it should last for 15 hours on a charge.
Both styluses  cost $79.95 and  be available on Wacom’s website, Best Buy, and other select retailers starting in June.
With summer upon us, it’s more important than ever for streaming services to find ways to convince you to stay home instead of, you know, just going outside where the sun is (hopefully) shining. How important? Enough so that Netflix is releasing the new season of Orange Is the New Black on June 9th, and releasing its new series GLOW on June 23rd. And don’t worry if movies are more your thing; Stanley Kubrick’s Full Metal Jacket is coming to the service on June 1st, and if you like stuff that’s really terrible, you’ll  be able to watch Catwoman that very same day.
Amazon has its own plans, of course. Both versions of Francis Ford Coppola’s Apocalypse Now are coming to Amazon Prime Video in June, and the service is leaning into expanding its movie selection overall, adding titles like David Lynch’s Blue Velvet, P.T. Anderson’s Magnolia, and Mike Mills 20th Century Women.
It’s a big movie month for HBO as well, as HBO Now customers  soon get access to films like Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children, The Conjuring 2, and The Birth of a Nation. But nothing lasts forever, and on June 30th the service   lose films like Tim Burton’s Batman (boo!), Deadpool (hiss!), and The Haunted Mansion (nevermind, we didn’t want that one anyway). For the full list of everything coming to all three services, we’ve included the full list below.

June 1st
June 2nd–14th
June 15th–18th
June 20th–27th
June 28th–30th

June 1st
June 6th–14th
June 15th–30th


June 1st

June 2nd–12th
June 17th–30th

June 1st

June 2nd–12th
June 17th–24th

June 30th

Update, June 12th, 12:45PM: Revised with 20th Century Women’s new June 28th release date on Amazon Prime.
Europe plans to add thousands of free Wi-Fi hot spots to public spaces across all EU members countries over the next few years.
The hot spots  be added as part of a plan called WiFi4EU, which was agreed to on Monday by the European Parliament, Council, and Commission. The parties agreed to add between 6,000 and 8,000 Wi-Fi hot spots by 2020.
The goal, says Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, who introduced the WiFi4EU plan last year, is to have free Wi-Fi in “every European village and every city ... around the main centers of public life.”
Areas with hot spots could include public squares, parks, and hospitals. The EU bodies  set aside €120 million (about $135 million USD) to fund the launch of these hot spots. The money  pay for the equipment needed to set up and run the hot spots, but local municipalities  be required to pay ongoing internet access costs.
While the specifics haven’t been finalized yet, the plan is to allow local authorities to apply for funding to add Wi-Fi to any applicable public space that doesn’t already have service.
WiFi4EU is part of the EU’s “Digital Single Market” initiative, which is meant to strengthen and streamline technology and regulations of it across the continent. Andrus Ansip, who’s in charge of the initiative, said in a statement that the Wi-Fi plan “is a welcome first step, but much more needs to be done to achieve high-speed connectivity across the whole EU territory.”
Eurostat says that 85 percent of EU households had broadband internet access in 2016. That’s a high figure, but it means there’s still a gap to bridge.
Hey buddy, how's it going? Everything cool? Work is good? Good to know. So yeah, anyway, I was wondering what's up with the three-foot-tall polygonal robot statue on your coffee table that's  a Bluetooth speaker?
First off, who am I to judge? I have a framed Doritos bag on my wall. I understand the appeal of "outsider art."
One sec, let's watch this YouTube trailer for the Sound Heroes video game tie-in for your Bluetooth speaker robot statue that's glaring into my soul:
See what just happened there? Do you know what I mean? No, I guess I'm not making myself clear.
Maybe this GIF pulled from your Bluetooth speaker's comic book tie-in  say it better:
I know you know what I'm getting at: $280 for a novelty Bluetooth speaker on Indiegogo that's  a charging dock, a Wi-Fi range extender, and a subwoofer? You know? 16 million RGB LED color variations? Right?
Right?
Glad we had this talk.
Some spoilers ahead through episode 4 of season 3 of Twin Peaks.
On May 21st, Showtime brought back David Lynch’s groundbreaking TV series Twin Peaks, and fulfilled a prophecy in the process. In the second season finale, back in 1991, the spirit of series-defining murder victim Laura Palmer told FBI special agent and series protagonist Dale Cooper, “I’ll see you again in 25 years.” That clip plays again in the first episode of Lynch’s Twin Peaks revival, as a reminder that decades have in fact gone by, Laura’s promise has been carried out, and a series canceled mid-story is back on the air.
A lot has changed in 25 years. The original cast members, who are mostly back on board, have all aged heavily and visibly. Many of the characters have moved on in life, getting new jobs, forming families, or taking up new obsessions. But in the opening episode, Dale Cooper was still where the show left him in 1991: trapped in the spirit domain known as the Black Lodge, at the mercy of incomprehensible forces that behave in erratic, alien ways. In other words, he’s just like anyone who’s actually watching Twin Peaks. As the third season began, the audience was  stuck back in 1991, waiting to see whether we were going to move on from the show’s many long-gestating cliffhangers. And we were  at the mercy of the incomprehensible force that is David Lynch, with his erratic, alien storytelling methods.
All protagonists are mediators who help tell audiences how to interpret the narrative around them, but Dale Cooper is something else entirely: he is the audience, stumbling through Lynch’s obscure vision, and mutating along with it. The show’s tone, budget, and format have all changed with the 2017 revival, and Cooper, too, has changed — more so than any other character on the show. But he’s changed in ways we should recognize. They’re the same ways we’ve changed, as Twin Peaks has progressed from era-defining hit to weird cable art-experiment. The old series followed Agent Cooper through the painful, awkward process of maturing as an agent and a man. And his development happened in parallel with the maturing of a TV audience that had to learn how to follow a new kind of story.
Today, viewers have more sophisticated expectations than they did in the 1990s. They expect long arcs, slow character development, and mysteries that may take hours of air time to explore, let alone to decode. But Showtime’s new series is still leaving viewers curious, frustrated, baffled, and without the tools to translate what they’re seeing — which is exactly what Agent Cooper seems to be feeling right now as well.
Consider Cooper as he started Twin Peaks back in 1990, as a fresh-faced, perky outsider walking into a mid-sized mountain community with no idea what to expect. Like the audience, he was entranced by the town of Twin Peaks — its quirky people, its unexpected pleasures, the sheer vividness of everything around him. Yes, he was there to solve a murder, but he was endlessly confident about his ability to tackle any case. The audience felt the same natural confidence. We knew how TV murder mysteries went. We thought we knew exactly what to expect from that end of the story: some procedural details, some red herrings, some drama, and eventually a solution.
But like Cooper, we were seduced and distracted by Twin Peaks’ unexpected pleasures, the way the town unfolded on-screen, with all its strange domestic soap opera dramas and oddball interactions. Like Coop, we found our fun in the unusual texture and color of the world David Lynch and Mark Frost built. In those early days, Twin Peaks was a popular fad — the two-hour pilot was the season’s highest-rated TV movie — and the popular way to appreciate it was by emulating Dale Cooper’s experience as much as possible. Lifestyle pieces proliferated in the media, tracking people who threw Peaks parties to watch the show while eating all the things Cooper rhapsodized about in the early episodes: stacks of doughnuts, cherry pie, coffee, and breakfast food. (“Nothing beats the taste sensation when maple syrup collides with ham!” he chirps in episode 4.) The audience didn’t just want to watch Cooper solving a mystery, they wanted to be him, experiencing his outsized cheer for the world.
As the story went on, though, the tone darkened. Cooper lost his Boy Scout enthusiasm for food and the smell of Douglas firs. As more details emerged in the Laura Palmer murder case, another victim surfaced, and the supernatural side of the story emerged, Twin Peaks stopped sending Cooper on wacky cosplay adventures to Canada, and letting him vet his clues with oddball psychic experiments. It started confronting him with unexpected, alarming experiences. He took the first one in stride: visiting the Black Lodge in a dream, he returned convinced that he’d solved the murder, and that all would be well once he remembered the solution. Like us, he didn’t really understand what was going on at that point of the story, but he was still optimistic, and still ing to roll with every strange new revelation.
Then Cooper got shot. The second season of Twin Peaks opened with him bleeding on the ground, enduring the unhelpful attentions of “the world’s oldest waiter,” listening to a glowing giant who dispenses information without acknowledging that Cooper may not live to use it, and having a strained one-way conversation with his voice-activated tape recorder. The viewers suffered along with him, through excruciating events that seemed drawn out to the point of perversity. Suddenly, being Agent Dale Cooper wasn’t fun anymore. His confidence was punctured, and we were all baffled and helpless together.
There are moments in season 2 where Cooper bounces back into form, but they’re outnumbered by events that exhaust and chasten him, visibly transforming him into a more solemn, internal man. Jean Renault held him hostage, beat him, and threatened to murder him, suggesting Cooper was the cause of the town’s growing darkness. His former FBI partner Windom Earle brought a new chaos to town, and revealed Cooper’s past failings. Cooper lost his FBI standing and his love interest. He saw Earle’s soul consumed in front of him. A murderous monster took his place in the outside world. By the time season 2 ended, the audience had seen Cooper frightened, powerless, and confused as much as it ever saw him confident and in control. He stopped being a motive force in the world, and became a passive object in his own story. The series’s cancellation left viewers just as rudderless and abandoned as he was.
Cooper’s trend toward impotence over the course of Twin Peaks’ original series run made for an ambitious and personal story. In the 1990s, TV viewers weren’t used to long-arc serial dramas where the protagonist changed rapidly and irrevocably, the way protagonists are expected to in today’s stories. But while Twin Peaks’ arc was compelling to many of the fans who stuck with it, it was wearying and demoralizing as well. The ratings trended steadily and sharply downward, peaking at milestones — the second season premiere, the reveal of who killed Laura Palmer — but still plummeting from the early days. The ratings drop was a form of feedback from a viewership who, like Cooper, weren’t confident and eager anymore. They began rejecting the show as it rejected its early tone, and its early promise. As Twin Peaks developed, it became clear that it was about the maturing of a hero, but it was  about how the vast and incomprehensible aspects of his world claimed, consumed, and broke him. Viewers couldn’t be blamed for pulling away from that story.
And as Lynch withdrew from the show, it became narratively muddled, inconsistent, and sometimes downright silly. Cooper’s story remains one relatively consistent throughline, but it’s a tragic one, in which a fan-favorite character, the voice and point of view of the series, loses his joy, his freedom, and his capacity to control his own life. And it became the story of an audience that flocked to the show for lively, quirky surprises, and wound up splintered, divided, and uncertain.
Showtime’s series launches with Agent Cooper as thoroughly broken as he’s ever been. The first two episodes find him still trapped in the Lodge, facing the shrieking spirit of Laura Palmer and an angry human-sized nervous system topped by a pulsing, talking brain. He’s ejected into space, threatened by an unseen force, and rescued by a blinded woman with unclear motives who helps him in unclear ways. Finally, he’s fed through an electrical socket into what seems to be a decoy body, living its own life until he takes it over. By episode 4 of the series, he’s stumbling around in a lobotomized daze, repeating whatever people say to him, bellowing “Help” at random strangers and “Helloooooo!” at slot machines. He’s confused, helpless, and only slowly regaining the tools he needs to function in this world.
And so are we. The knowledge that Lynch has been given creative control of the show is a form of reassurance, a promise that even if the new Peaks narrative is baffling and bizarre, it’s at least intended. It’s not the work of slot-fillers trying to pad out an infinitely ongoing program; it’s a creative mastermind trying to tell a specific story. But that story is once again leaving viewers at sea, trying to pick apart Lynch’s work for tiny clues about what they’re watching. We’re back in Dale Cooper’s position, wandering through a freshly revived world, and trying to catch up with the ways it’s moved on in his absence.
The problem with the new Peaks as of episode 4, though, is that we have so little basis for understanding who our audience avatar is right now. Is Cooper mentally impaired because he’s spent 25 years outside of time and space? Because he’s stuck in a false, constructed body? Because Bob claimed some part of him while stealing his identity? Or just because Lynch thinks it’s funny to have Kyle MacLachlan staggering around blank-faced, with a tie on his head and a dozen-word vocabulary? What are the stakes of the story at this point? What is the audience to make of a narrative shaped by a character who isn’t capable of anything but following orders, following glowing magical sigils, and repeating whatever he hears? Like us, Cooper seems to have virtually no way of interpreting what he’s seeing. For now, he’s just along for the ride.
There’s no reason to believe that old Agent Cooper  ever return to Twin Peaks. The brash, confident, charmingly oddball young man he was in 1990 is long gone, and with good reason, given what he’s been through. In the same sort of way, no revival could ever recapture what Twin Peaks meant to audiences in 1990, when it was all so new and fresh and strange, so unlike anything that had ever appeared on network television.
But he’s still around in some form, still bouncing through the trials of a Lynchian world. What’s missing now is any sense that he can help us understand what those trials mean. 1990s Cooper was an active force in his own story. He helped us navigate his surroundings, and see them with humor and wonder. He claimed, perhaps wrongly, but still convincingly, that there was order somewhere in the chaos. It’s natural for us to want to return to a mode where he can actively participate in his own story, where he’s helping solve its mysteries, instead of acting as its biggest conundrum. But even with his humanity lost and his agency gone, he still represents us onscreen. Even when he’s free-floating through a haze of glass boxes and stop-motion nightmares, we’re still with him. We’re still all Agent Cooper, navigating the mystery, and waiting to see where this is all going.
Interviewed by reporter Peter Kafka at Recode’s Code Conference today, Reed Hastings addressed recent months’ controversy around Netflix competing at the Cannes Film Festival.
Given Netflix’s refusal to release its competition films — Bong Joon-ho’s Okja and Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories — in French theaters, the French film industry’s governing body threw its weight around a bit, prompting Cannes to disqualify streaming-only films in future years. Many reports from the festival suggested that the tension was ongoing — including tweets about Okja’s Netflix title card being booed, as well as the films’ stars and creative team (and totally unrelated industry peers) weighing in on the drama.
Related
Asked to explain what happened, Hastings told Kafka that the National Federation of French Cinemas has “roughly half” of the board seats at Cannes. “They got the festival director to threaten to pull us out, which got a bunch of press. He kept us in because artistic integrity should be the trumping principle. It was very messy ... Sometimes the establishment is clumsy when it tries to shut out the insurgent, and then the insurgent’s role is to play that up, which we did.”
Hastings clarified that he doesn’t believe Netflix “picked” a fight with Cannes, but the controversy worked out as free press for the two films, which “got it on their own, on artistic merit.”
Says Hastings: “We don’t really want to fight with anyone… [When] someone picks a fight with us, it brings [us] attention, [and] it’s fantastic for us. Most importantly it’s fantastic for Okja and Meyerowitz Stories… they’ll get a lot more awareness.”
The conversation at Code Conference centered on Netflix’s work making original films, with Kafka  asking about how the strategy differs from that for Netflix’s many original TV series. Hastings was reluctant to answer, saying, “You’re drawing a firm line between them and we look at them more fluidly.” It’s an interesting response, given the frequent criticism that some of Netflix’s original series are just overly long movies, drawn out for little reason.
Pointing out that Netflix’s Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon was acknowledged as a failure in its latest investor letter, Kafka prompted Hastings to concede that Netflix is, if not struggling with the new venture, at least having a harder time than it did with TV: “I don’t know that movies are that much harder, we just had chosen first to do serialized entertainment because you get into a show and you get excited and addicted about it and binge-viewing is a very novel thing that we pioneered. There’s no movie equivalent.”
The interview briefly addressed Netflix’s few original series cancelations (Hastings mentions only Marco Polo and The Get Down, tragically forgetting the always-forgotten Bloodline), and Hastings brushed off Kafka’s suggestion that these were big, embarrassing failed bets: “They were a small percentage, like 1 percent of the total budget for original content. So they’re big in absolute dollars, no question, but not as a percentage.” He continued, adding, “If anything, what I push our content team on is you should have more things that don’t work out. You gotta get more aggressive. The drive towards conformity as you grow as a company is very substantial.”
Hastings  discussed net neutrality, which he says is no longer a political priority for Netflix, and theatrical distribution of film (as a general concept), which he sees living side by side with streaming releases. An audience member asked him what a Netflix movie theater would look like and he said “a 60-inch OLED 4K TV in your living room.”
As President Trump eyes backing out of the world’s largest climate agreement, he may lose one of his most prominent advisors from the tech world. Today on Twitter, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk announced that if President Trump publicly withdraws from the international Paris agreement, Musk  respond by withdrawing from all White House advisory councils.
“[I] don't know which way Paris  go,” Musk tweeted, “but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH & via councils, that we remain.” When asked what he would do if Trump withdraws from the Paris agreement, Musk responded, “ have no choice but to depart councils in that case.” Musk currently advises the president’s Manufacturing Jobs Initiative, as well as the Strategic and Policy Forum.
The president has yet to make a public decision on whether the US  remain in the Paris agreement, but this morning, Axios reported he had privately decided to withdraw. The Paris agreement is voluntary and carries no penalties for nations that fail to meet their set targets, leading many to question the benefit of a formal withdrawal, even in the absence of decarbonization efforts.
Musk has drawn harsh criticism for his ingness to serve on the Trump administration’s various advisory councils, but has defended the move as a way to influence the president on crucial climate issues, including the Paris agreement and carbon tax proposals. Musk’s businesses benefit significantly from tax credits for electric cars and solar panel installations, and NASA contracts are one of SpaceX’s primary sources of revenue. Still, Musk has long argued his advocacy is focused on climate policy rather than personal gain, a stance confirmed by today’s statement.
At the same time, the effects of global climate change continue to be felt around the world. NASA records showed 2016 as the warmest year on record, recorded as 1.78 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than the 20th century average.
Slowpoke, Magikarp, and Magnemite are not the best-known faces of Pokémon (clearly that’s Pikachu), but all three share a special honor: their very own theme song. The Japanese Pokemon Official YouTube Channel released a new anthem for Magnemite, a frantic song that’s basically a Where’s Waldo-style music video.
I don’t think I ever realized how tiny Magnemite apparently is, or how creepy it can get. It lurks among your desk supplies, your bathroom tile, your foiled leftovers, and even your private messages like a one-eyed, leering virus. It looks absolutely terrible with hair. But this song is still much kinder than Magikarp’s, and far less strange than Slowpoke’s so... does that make Magnemite the favorite child?
On the heels of Overwatch's one-year anniversary celebration, Blizzard is launching the next major piece of content: a new Assault map set on the Moon called Horizon Lunar Colony.
In Overwatch's fiction, Horizon Lunar Colony is the home of the genetically modified gorilla hero Winston. He was seen growing up there along with other human and gorilla test subjects to study the effect of long-term life in space in flashbacks from the previous “Recall” animated short. Following a gorilla uprising — in which most of the humans were killed — contact between the base and Earth was lost. That is, until now. (Winston himself escaped the battle and returned to Earth, where he joined the Overwatch organization.)
The new map  let players explore Winston's home, and discover more details on a new corner of Overwatch's lore in the same subtle way that Blizzard tends to dole out information on the game's storyline: through its environments.
There could be more content related to Horizon in the future, too — an early tease for the map posted on Blizzard's website notes that Winston isn't the only subject not on Horizon anymore. A specimen named Hammond  listed as missing, meaning there could be a new character coming somewhere down the line as well.
Horizon Lunar Colony is available now for PC players to try on the Overwatch Public Test Realm (PTR) server, with a console and primary PC server release likely to hit in the coming weeks.
Netflix’s chief executive officer has made no secret of the fact that he’d like movies to come to Netflix almost as soon as they’re released in theaters. Today at Recode’s Code Conference, he offered a rather optimistic view of how people  still have their in-theater experience and stream it, too: by likening the theater experience to going out to dinner, as opposed to cooking at home.
During an onstage interview with Recode’s Peter Kafka, Hastings said he thinks it’s “inevitable that the current window system breaks down,” referring to theatrical release systems, the time period before movies come to DVD and eventually become available as home rentals.
Typically, that window — which industry insiders refer to as the “dark zone” — can last up to 90 days. In recent years, some studios have considered shortening the window to two weeks, as the film industry adjusts to shrinking DVD sales and consumers’ binge-watching habits at home. Netflix, for its part, has advocated for movies to be available on streaming services the same day they’re released in theaters.
But if it that happens, that doesn’t mean that people  stop going to the theater entirely — at least, according to Hastings. He believes many  still pay for a communal experience. “Just like you go out to dinner even though you know how to cook,” he told Kafka.
That seems like a not-very-apt comparison, since, arguably, cooking at home is much less convenient than eating out, while home streaming is (especially for families with kids) more convenient than going out to movie theaters. Plus, on-demand home streaming allows for the kind of binge-watching that services like Netflix have helped popularize, whereas movie theaters clearly do not.
But it’s  not surprising that Hastings would attempt to offer a diplomatic response to a hard question about what the real future of distribution is. At a press event at Netflix headquarters back in March, Hastings emphasized to journalists that he’s not “anti-theater,” just that he wants “innovation and growth in the movie market” and to explore other kinds of distribution strategies.
Perhaps a more revealing remark is what Hastings said at Code Conference today when asked whether Netflix would launch its own movie theater chain: “no plans” to do so, he said, adding that TVs are getting so good that it makes little sense.

Speaking with Recode’s Peter Kafka at the Code Conference today, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings explained his position on the current net neutrality debate that’s happening at the FCC. Or, more to the point, he addressed the fact that he’s been awfully quiet about it compared to how loudly he defended net neutrality in previous fights.
“It’s not narrowly important to us because we’re big enough to get the deals we want,” Hastings said. It was a candid admission: no matter what the FCC decides to do with Title II, Netflix isn’t worried about its ability to survive. Hastings says that Netflix is “weighing in against” changing the current rules, but that “it’s not our primary battle at this point” and “we don’t have a special vulnerability to it.”
He does believe that smaller players are going to be harmed if net neutrality goes away, saying that “where net neutrality is really important is the Netflix of 10 years ago.”
Perhaps another reason Netflix is being a little quieter about fighting to keep current net neutrality rules is that Hastings knows it’s already a lost cause. His best guess at what  happen is exactly what FCC chair Ajit Pai has been hinting at: “It might be that ISPs just accept the principles [of net neutrality] and it’s not enshrined formally,” he said. “I think the FCC is going to unwind Title II,” he added later. And he believes that it’s in the ISPs’ “long term interest” to respect net neutrality principles, so maybe they’ll just do it on their own.
He said all that with a kind of a shrug, though.
“The Trump FCC is going to unwind the rules no matter what anybody says,” Hastings argues. He might believe that net neutrality is “important for society,” but his company, Netflix, isn’t in trouble so it’s not going to get into the fight. “We had to carry the water when we were growing up and we were small,” Hastings said. “Other companies have to be on that leading edge.”
You can’t blame a company for paying attention to its existential problems — for Netflix it’s growing globally. But if you were hoping that it would be a warrior for net neutrality now just because it was then... stop doing that.
Elgato’s new Eve Degree device  monitor both indoor and outdoor temperatures between zero degrees to 130 degrees Fahrenheit, as well as humidity levels throughout your home. And the best part is that it runs off a replaceable coin cell battery that’ll last up to a year.
Now, if you don’t feel like walking over to check the device, you can view its data through a companion iOS app or the HomeKit app. It pairs with your iPhone or iPad over Bluetooth. If you have a fourth-generation Apple TV or an iPad that’s  a Home Hub, Eve Degree can automatically trigger different actions, like turning on a humidifier if the air is dry.
Regardless of whether you’re physically watching the device, you’ll still probably want to check out the app because you’ll be able to see air pressure measurements in addition to humidity and temperature. The app visualizes all this data as historical graphs, so you can figure out trends over time. Elgato is positioning its new gadget as a tool for growing plants, especially because it’s water resistant. Maybe this is the key to keeping your plants alive. The Eve Degree goes on sale June 6th for $69.95 on Amazon and through Elgato.com.
My first 10K in April was a resounding success — until the stress of the run made me fall sick and miss work for two days. Cue my (lazy, couch-potato) friends jokingly telling me that this is proof that running is actually bad for you.
That claim is false, but there really are a lot of studies about the health benefits, or downsides, of running. An hour of running might add seven hours to your life, but too much of it might be dangerous for the heart. We hear that it’s so high-impact that it hurts your joints, but some research suggests it might actually be good for the knees. So how do we evaluate all these claims?
Let’s get one big thing out of the way: running, like everything else, is dangerous if you do it too much. However, the plain truth is that most people aren’t exercising enough. “We know that regardless of what exercise you do, it’s going to be better than doing none,” says Brandon Alderman, an exercise psychologist at Rutgers University. “We have this huge problem of inactivity and that problem is much larger than the problem of the specific dangers of any one activity.” (So take that, so-called friends. I may have fallen sick, but my 20 miles a week give me more than enough reason to be holier-than-thou.)
When it comes to the studies, we can’t always apply every result to ourselves, says Jinger Gottschall, a Pennsylvania State University kinesiologist who studies running. Often, studies look at a very limited group of people, or a specific routine that might have nothing to do with your training regimen. Some studies have given us good, generalizable rules — like replacing your running shoes every 300 miles or so — but some of the individual results are too specific. For example, there has been a lot of discussion about barefoot running, but the number of people who can safely do barefoot running on a regular basis is “very small,” says Gottschall. And while running does put more stress on the joints than, say, swimming, she contends it’s mostly safe for the knees and can even strengthen them if you do hills.
So how can you tell if a study’s results might apply to you? First, look at the demographics of people who were studied. Are they similar to you in terms of age and sex? What about their activity level — were the people sedentary and non-active in the beginning, or lifelong runners? Good studies on running   provide information on how much someone exercised before the study, which usually includes mileage per week and a pace, so you can compare even more accurately. And treadmill running, which can often use different inclines, versus trail training sometimes have different effects, too. The more similar you are to the participants, the more you can apply the results. So a study about older men who run for five hours a week on a treadmill might not give me the most insight into what makes sense for me, a young woman who would rather never move again than run on a treadmill. (If this information isn’t provided in the write-up you’re reading, it’s usually in the abstract of the study itself, which is usually linked in an article.)
Some exercise research is directly useful, but some studies are interesting just because they give us a glimpse into the habits of the most elite runners. I am firmly in the camp of “recreational runner,” and a slow one at that, which means I remain fascinated by those much speedier than me and how I can learn from them. Matthew Bundle, a professor of biomechanics at the University of Montana, has spent the past decade studying the gait of high-level athletes to see how we can use their secrets to help us improve. His lab has a high-speed treadmill that can go a little faster than 28 miles per hour. (That’s about how fast Usain Bolt was going when he set a 100-meter world record, so it’s safe to say that we don’t need much more than that for research.)
Bundle’s team recruits athletes to use the treadmill and provide data on the forces and collisions that take place between the leg and the ground. In one experiment, they took successful college athletes — the type already winning championships — and took videos of them running using high-speed motion analysis. High-speed motion analysis can take about 1,000 frames in a second; in comparison, the instant replay of sports on TV is usually about 60 frames a second. From that, they can get an “exquisite amount of detail,” says Bundle, like that sometimes the foot is only fully touching the ground for as short as 85 milliseconds, or that as much as 4.5 times the body weight hits the ground. After watching these videos, Bundle’s team gave detailed pointers on form — like how to adjust their stride — to the athletes, and the group became better by 7 percent within three days. “We think we’re onto something here,” he says.
Bundle’s team is  studying what’s possible for our endurance. It turns out that dedicated runners — those who can run a marathon under two hours and 45 minutes, but who wouldn’t make the Olympic trials — can run for two hours at about 92 percent speed of what they can run for five minutes. “There’s still additional loss of performance, but it’s much much slower,” he says, “and so we’ve been focusing on these very short events to try and understand how the byproducts of intense muscle activity start to poison the muscle and prevent it from being able to continue to generate the kinds of forces that it needs.”
Then, on the other end of the spectrum, are people who don’t run at all. (So, me as of a year ago.) For those just starting out, what’s the most important thing? Is it the type of shoe, the type of trail, the exact mileage?
Gottschall, the Penn State kinesiologist, says it’s the details of the training program: how often you run, how quickly you increase your mileage, and how consistently you do so. Get good shoes, but don’t get too caught up on special gear like athletic bands to support the knees, which really have little science behind them.
When it comes to gait, the beginning runner doesn’t need high-speed motion analysis. Do what feels natural, she says, and don’t worry too much about getting the “right” kind of step. (I’m guilty of obsessing over this, since I’m someone who takes short steps and is envious of more graceful-looking runners with longer strides.) The ideal program is probably three to five times a week, from half an hour to 75 minutes each time, according to Gottschall. But in the beginning, the important thing is to try to stick it out for six weeks. “That seems like a long time, but that’s the point when it really starts to stick,” she says. After my 10K, I fell off running for a bit and am finding it somewhat hard to get back in the habit. Maybe it’s time for me to re-commit for another six weeks, too.

It looks like Samsung is going to miss its own deadline for launching Bixby’s voice features in the US. The Wall Street Journal is reporting this morning that the voice portion of Bixby, Samsung’s new digital assistant, won’t be ready until at least late June and that the software is still struggling to reliably understand English.
That means Bixby’s voice features  end up launching at the earliest sometime this summer — which starts June 21st — and after the “spring” target that Samsung gave in early April.
Bixby is supposed to be one of the flagship features on the Galaxy S8, which launched in the US just over a month ago. While it seems pretty safe to say that few are dying to get their hands on the full Bixby experience — it doesn’t look like a dramatic improvement over Siri or the other digital assistants we’ve seen in recent years — its absence is pretty noticeable. After all, Samsung dedicated an entire button on the S8 to launching Bixby. But with the assistant yet to launch, all the button does it pull up a Bixby app that aggregates info you might be interested in, much like Google Now.
Pandora World, the new section of Walt Disney World’s Animal Kingdom dedicated to James Cameron’s Avatar, is now open to the public. Which means, of course, the public is now posting video of the inside of the two big rides — a 3D motion simulator called Flight of Passage and a boat ride called Na'vi River Journey.
According to The Verge’s Bryan Bishop, who visited Pandora World last week, “the premise is that visitors are on a tourist trip with a company called Alpha Centauri Expeditions, or ACE.” One hundred years have passed between the events of Cameron’s 2009 film and your time in the park, and “as part of the tourist package, visitors can use the movie’s namesake mind-projection tech to take control of an avatar and fly a wild Banshee (the flagship 3D simulator attraction Flight of Passage), or take a gentle boat ride through a bioluminescent landscape and meet the sacred Shaman of Songs on the Na’vi River Journey.”
Related
You can see all that in the video above. The “lab” waiting area in the Flight of Passage ride is particularly detailed — there are informational plaques, “simulations,” and interactive exhibits to introduce Disney’s youngest tourists to the world of an eight-year-old movie they likely haven’t seen.
Na’vi River Journey looks like a solid attempt at a Disney World standard — the chill, air-conditioned ride through a neon reinterpretation of a popular fictional world. It’s not unlike the The Seas with Nemo and Friends in Epcot, or Peter Pan’s Flight in the Magic Kingdom, until you get to the incredibly life-like Shaman of Songs. (She moves like a person and she’s singing!) As Bryan reported, she’s Disney’s most advanced animatronic ever — built off of years of accrued knowledge from experiments in improving the Magic Kingdom’s Pirates of the Caribbean ride and Hall of Presidents — and it shows. I’m a little afraid of it? It’s okay, I’m not a child anymore and I don’t have to go.
Here is a slightly more intimate POV than the first embedded Flight of Passage video, though it’s not in 4K:
The New York Times is terminating its public editor position, shifting its focus to reader comments and social media conversations. Publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr. announced in a memo that the paper has outgrown the need for the role as more and more readers provide criticism online. The Times plans on expanding its commenting platform, and current public editor Liz Spayd  leave the paper on Friday.
“There is nothing more important to our mission, or our business, than strengthening our connection with our readers,” Sulzberger Jr. wrote. “A relationship that fundamental cannot be outsourced to a single intermediary.”
The decision, which mirrors similar ones made at The Washington Post and other organizations, comes at a time when the Times is trying to improve its digital operation to help offset a declining print business. The Times Company reported earlier this month that it saw a 19 percent increase in digital revenue, but an 18 percent decrease on the print side, the lifeblood of the paper. As a result, the company is offering buyouts to editors and reporters to funnel more resources to the remaining staff.
With this in mind, the public editor job, created in the wake of 2003’s Jayson Blair plagiarism scandal, was perhaps always in peril. Complicating matters more is the fact that Spayd, who took the job last July, has been roundly criticized for publishing work that’s been called everything from “insipid” by The Outline to “disastrous” by New York magazine.
In her place, the Times  look to the recently launched Reader Center, which , according to an earlier memo, respond “directly to tips feedback, questions, concerns, complaints and other queries from the public.”
But how viable a solution that  be is unclear. Moderation is already a murky, grueling task, and Twitter is well known for trollish behavior overwhelming civil discourse. For starters, how  the Reader Center respond to comments, tips, and tweets from trolls sending death threats? How  it manage organized harassment campaigns?
Meanwhile, it can’t be denied that the public editor can be effective at serving readers, thanks to their access to decision-makers. In response to the announcement, former Times public editor and Washington Post columnist Margaret Sullivan tweeted:
3. The one thing an ombud or public editor can almost always do is hold feet to the fire, and get a real answer out of management.
Oculus has added Google Chromecast support to the Samsung Gear VR headset, so users can stream virtual reality experiences to their TV using a new cast button on the Oculus mobile app. This means that other people can now watch what you’re doing inside virtual reality — an option that’s long been possible on tethered headsets like the Oculus Rift and PlayStation VR, but absent from phone-based mobile VR.
Oculus brags that Gear VR is the only headset to officially support Chromecast right now, although Google is including Chromecast support in a Daydream VR update rolling out later this year. Most tethered headsets are already indirectly connected to a monitor or TV, so they can mirror the headset display automatically.
People watching a cast won’t be able to interact with apps or get the full experience of being in the Gear VR. But this option can make VR seem less isolating in a group setting, and it’s easier to guide new users through the interface when you know what they’re seeing. While this may not be what most people mean by “social VR,” it’s still a welcome update — as long as it works well.
NASA is naming its upcoming mission to “touch the Sun” after Eugene Parker, a prominent astrophysicist who discovered the existence of solar wind — the charged particles that are constantly streaming from our star. The mission, originally named Solar Probe Plus,  now be called the Parker Solar Probe. It’s the first time NASA has named one of its missions after a scientist who is still alive. Parker discovered solar wind in the 1950s and is about to celebrate his 90th birthday.
The Parker Solar Probe is NASA’s plan to send a spacecraft closer to our Sun than ever before. The probe, which is being developed by Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory, is supposed to launch on top of a Delta IV Heavy rocket in either July or August of 2018 and then spend seven years getting into closer and closer orbits around the Sun. To do this, the vehicle  do seven flybys of Venus, which  eventually bring the spacecraft within 3.7 million miles of the Sun. That’s about eight times closer than any other spacecraft has been before, according to NASA.
From this distance, the Parker Solar Probe  analyze the Sun’s atmosphere, mainly to figure out the mechanics of the solar wind that Parker discovered. The Sun is constantly spewing out highly charged particles in the form of plasma — what is known as solar wind. And it’s all thanks to the Sun’s outer atmosphere, or the corona. Even though the corona extends millions of miles out into space, it is unbelievably hot — so hot that it heats up particles to such extreme temperatures that they break free of the Sun’s gravity and accelerate outward in all directions. This solar wind, which carries part of the Sun’s magnetic field, travels all the way to Earth and slams into our planet’s own magnetic field.
Fortunately, our field acts like a protective barrier, so usually this process is pretty harmless for us. But every now and then, the Sun burps out an extra helping of charged particles known as a coronal mass ejection. When this mess of particles reaches Earth, it can disturb our magnetic field enough to cause geomagnetic storms. These storms aren’t too serious, but they can mess with our power grids and communications systems, as well as damage our satellites.
We know the basics of how solar wind works, but the processes behind these particle bursts are still not totally understood. That’s what the Parker Solar Probe is going to help us figure out. The spacecraft is designed to “trace the flow of energy” that’s responsible for heating up the corona and accelerating the solar wind. And the more we know about how these processes work, the better we can get at predicting when they  happen.
Normally, NASA waits to rename its missions after launch, but the space agency decided to break protocol this time since Parker’s work has been so instrumental for the spacecraft’s mission. His discovery of solar wind has essentially changed our understanding of stars and how they interact with the space around them. Apart from getting the mission named after him, a chip with pictures of Parker   be included on the vehicles, as well as a copy of his original paper on solar wind.

For 31 weeks last year, Adult Swim dropped a new track every Wednesday from artists like Earl Sweatshirt, Tim Hecker, and Run the Jewels. This year, the TV network is going to extend Adult Swim Singles to 52 weeks. When I asked Adult Swim’s creative director Jason DeMarco why he decided to stretch the annual music program to a full year, his response felt like an encapsulation of how Adult Swim wants you to perceive its totally chill business model: “Just to see if we could.”
That nonchalance could be one reason for Adult Swim’s wild card status in the music industry. The Singles program started in 2010, a few years after MP3 blogs began dying off, and about a year after Spotify announced its first million users. Despite listeners’ increasing apathy toward downloading, Adult Swim stubbornly made its tracks available as free downloads as well as streams, even as streaming cannibalized the industry almost entirely. Beginning today, the network’s download dedication is over. Adult Swim Singles is heading into its seventh year, and for the first time ever, it’s moving to an all-streaming model.
“People don’t download music anymore,” DeMarco said, noting that the program’s number of downloads each year only make up “less than one-sixth of the overall numbers.”
But poor download numbers aren’t enough to sink Adult Swim’s confidence in its cool, calculatedly haphazard passion project. Artists in this year’s lineup include Migos, Brian Eno, and Julian Casablancas, with dozens more still to come. With 52 artists in the roster, there’s bound to be nearly something for everyone. And even if there’s not, the network doesn’t have any real competition to worry about.
“We’re doing something no one else does,” DeMarco said. “I don’t know why they don’t do it. Maybe they don’t want to, or maybe no one is motivated enough to do it. But it’s been seven years, no one else is doing it, and I get the feeling that no one else is going to.”
I talked with DeMarco about the trajectory of the music industry, SoundCloud vs. Spotify, and what a TV network gets out of making MP3 mixtapes.
Why did you launch the Singles program in the first place?
The thinking was, when we originally had a label called iam Street Records, which isn’t around anymore, we thought, “Hey, wouldn’t it be cool if we could release a single every week?” And we couldn’t pull it off. Part of my job is to create things that we can use advertiser money for, and so we thought about, “What if we did it for two months, where we gave away one song a week from different artists, and then it got sponsored and we gave sponsor money to the artists.”
Has it been difficult to convince an artist to write an original track specifically for this program?
Absolutely. It’s less about the artist. If the artist has heard of Adult Swim, they’re usually down. It usually goes one of two ways: “Who the hell is Adult Swim and why should I do this?” or “I love Adult Swim!” There’s really no in between. So usually the artist is down, but it’s more about convincing the label and the publisher that there’s value in giving away something for free that their entire existence is based on monetizing. And frankly it’s one of the reasons we’re moving to an all-streaming model. Between the number of people who actually download music decreasing drastically in the last five years, and labels and publishers, for some reason they look at downloads as way more valuable than streams. A lot of times everything  be going along great and then we’ll say, “We’re giving it away for free download,” and then the label  be like “Why?” like we’re giving away gold.
The Singles program has been uniquely obsessed with downloading tracks while the rest of the industry turns away from it.
Yeah, I think the reason we did that was because I wanted it to feel real. It’s very routine now for every artist to offer a stream of their album before the official release date a week out, and so I felt that it was less special. But I’m an old man and I still download music. Basically, when we looked at the numbers this past year, we realized that the downloads were like, less than one-sixth of the overall numbers. People don’t download music anymore, and they listen to music on their phones. I would say it was a little bit of me not wanting to accept the reality that no one wants downloads. And it makes our deals easier. We can actually reach for bigger names if we want to because it’s much less of a big deal to ask for a stream than a download.
Are you moving off-platform?
We’ll have our own proprietary player that’s embeddable so that anyone can embed tracks in their blog, but we’re  going to put them on the Adult Swim SoundCloud, at least for now. We’re talking about maybe putting them on Spotify, although that complicates things for various reasons. We put them all on YouTube as well.
Why is it more difficult to get the tracks on Spotify or Apple Music?
Legal issues and the fact that sometimes labels or artists  already have exclusivity deals of their own with these services. It just complicates things because of their existing relationships with labels and artists. I want to be able to reach out to whoever I want to reach out to and not worry about, “Oh I can be on Spotify but I can’t be on Apple Music,” or any of that kind of stuff.
We have a very short exclusivity period so each artist controls the music. They can put the track up on their own wherever they want to after a short window. So if they want to put it up on Spotify, it’ll end up there. But initially, we want [fans] to have to go to our site.
How long is Adult Swim's exclusivity window for each track?
This varies from artist to artist, but it’s usually at minimum 24 hours, and at most five days. Normally, after more than 48 hours have passed, most of the people checking out the song  be either a) big fans of the artist, or b) fans of Adult Swim. That initial release window is where we have the best shot at reaching people who might not otherwise check the song out, just through the normal music news cycle.
How does the program fit in with the music industry as a whole?
We’re kind of an outlier in that TV networks and licensing are one of the only remaining important revenue streams to artists. So in that way, we’re like a TV network because we’re licensing music for a purpose. But we’re unlike a TV network in that we’re not licensing these tracks to use in commercials, we’re just doing a music program, which most TV networks don’t do. So we kind of stick out in that ecosystem, because we’re doing something no one else does. I don’t know why they don’t do it. Maybe they don’t want to, or maybe no one is motivated enough to do it. But it’s been seven years, no one else is doing it, and I get the feeling that no one else is going to. But Adult Swim is a small and idiosyncratic network, and someone like me who loves music is empowered to do this thing that’s not a direct and obvious revenue driver, whereas someone at Viacom might not have that support.
In the music ecosystem, TV is still one of the most important revenue streams. It’s live shows, merch, and licensing. Until TV truly dies and advertisers won’t spend money on it anymore, it remains a revenue stream, but I think that is shrinking and I don’t know what replaces it.
How does the program fit in with Adult Swim the TV network?
I think music has been a part of our identity since we started, with shows like Metalocalypse to the music that’s in between our shows in the bumps. We’ve heard time and time again from fans that they love the music we use on the air, and the music in this program reflects that. On air that’s electronic music, hip-hop, and metal, and those are the three genres that the Singles Program usually focuses on.
Habitual Adult Swim fans, who are the kinds of people who would bother coming to a website every week to hear a new track, are people that are used to Adult Swim giving them music that is great. My only thing is to continue supporting artists that I think make good music and to never put a song out that I don’t really like.

In the early days of virtual reality shooters, adding another human to the experience turns out to be an easy win. Games like Raw Data, Farpoint, and the upcoming Killing Floor: Incursion are all best with two people. But Gunheart, the first game from studio Drifter Entertainment, is the only one that  lets you blow balloons with your friends between rounds.
Gunheart is launching on all major high-end VR platforms: Oculus Rift and HTC Vive this summer, then PlayStation VR later in the year. It’s designed as a full-length game for three players, with a focus on cool weapons, fast-moving combat, and cooperation. Imagine an even more frenetic version of Borderlands in VR, with greater immersion but — so far — a lot less character.
Although Gunheart comes from a new studio, the game’s core team is made up of experienced developers. Ray Davis was general manager at Epic Games, where he worked on the Gears of War series and on Robo Recall, one of the most polished VR shooters ever made. Kenneth Scott is a longtime art director who previously worked at id Software and Oculus. And Brian Murphy is a former designer and creative director at Microsoft.
Unfortunately, like a lot of VR games, Gunheart looks generic on the surface. Its name sounds like something from a Rob Liefeld superhero generator, and its central conflict — killing bug-like monsters in a rocky alien landscape — is the premise of Farpoint as well. Cooperative play is a great element to add, but it’s  a shortcut that lets developers avoid having to create characters or compelling narratives. VR games have to be developed on an aggressive timeline to keep up with the fast-changing industry, and Gunheart looks like one of the more substantive efforts. But it doesn’t feel distinctive in the way we expect from good non-VR games, even ones enjoyed mostly for their gameplay.
In Gunheart’s favor, the gameplay is shaping up to be a lot of fun, based on my run through an early build of one level. It pulls together an armory based on items people already love using with motion controls, including conventional weapons, a crossbow, and a disc-throwing gun reminiscent of the science fiction frisbees in sports games RipCoil and Sparc. Players can wield one in each hand, or combine them into a unique super-weapon by holding their hands together. You could probably go it alone, but you wouldn’t be able to surround enemies with other people, or have one person lay down fire with a long-range weapon while another gets up close with a shotgun.
Gunheart’s teleportation system makes it possible to reach places you’d never get with standard video game running or jumping. You can pop instantly around areas to find cover spots and vantage points, or rush an enemy and then blink back to revive a fallen partner. “A lot of VR developers early on looked at teleport as sort of a handicap” that caused less motion sickness than running, says Davis. “We really embraced it as a first-class citizen, and realized it feels like a superpower.” It’s  apparently easier to get players to notice things above their heads in VR. “It unlocks vertical spaces in a way that we always wanted to do in shooters,” Murphy says.
And although the game badly needs a fresher aesthetic, it does have one clever feature I haven’t found anywhere else: the standard multiplayer “lobby” is a literal lobby, or at least a spacious lounge. Instead of holding guns, players use a device in their hands to blow balloons, draw voxels in midair, or produce a giant foam hand to give high-fives.  most people spend much time here? It’s hard to say. And when players start games with random strangers instead of acquaintances, Drifter   need a robust anti-harassment system, if it wants to avoid the problems other VR games have faced. But the lobby still offers a non-violent playfulness that’s rare in shooters.
Gunheart still feels very much like a first-wave VR game, but it’s riding the tail end of that wave, learning from the early successes and failures of VR shooters. I just hope I can find enough friends with headsets to play it.
Early on in Tokyo 42, I found myself being chased through a busy thoroughfare by gun-wielding thugs. Civilians rushed off in every direction as bullets whizzed past, and flickering electronic billboards only added to the visual madness. I managed to blend in for a brief period using a holographic projector to change my appearance, but I knew it wouldn’t last for long. I had to get away. I jumped over a large concrete staircase — and was surprised when I landed with a soft thud on some picturesque green grass. Amid the game’s futuristic urban sprawl, I found myself in a quaint zen garden.
“It’s definitely cyberpunk with its dystopic premise,” Maciek Strychalski, one half of developer Smac Games, says of the game, “but aesthetically it’s slightly off.”
Rather than wallow in seedy alleys and overcrowded streets, Tokyo 42 opts to lighten things up. The isometric game features a zoomed-out perspective, providing wide view of near-future Tokyo. The action is set on the city’s surprisingly bustling rooftops against its beautiful, cloudy sky. There are still plenty of flying cars and electronic billboards, and Tokyo 42 takes on plenty of gritty sci-fi subject matter. But it’s  bright, colorful, and charming, with a toy-like sense of style — a cross between Ghost in the Shell and Monument Valley.
Tokyo 42 follows a man framed for a crime he didn’t commit. He sets about clearing his name by taking on murder-for-hire jobs in order to delve deeper into the city’s criminal underbelly, and find the actual responsible party. It’s typical genre stuff, loaded with corporate intrigue and violent criminal organizations. The real standout is the city itself, and how it’s experienced through the top-down isometric perspective.
Tokyo 42’s version of the Japanese capital looks like an immaculately detailed model. Because the camera is so far from the action, everything looks tiny — from the minuscule citizens milling about, to the Lego-like stacks of modular apartment buildings. You explore the twee city as you take on different jobs, which mostly revolve around the not-so-twee act of killing people. Sometimes you’ll need to find an ideal spot to plant a sniper rifle and take out a mark from afar. Other times you’ll need to wield a blade and silently infiltrate a criminal stronghold.
The isometric perspective has its roots in much older games — it was originally used in games as a way to fake 3D graphics — but in Tokyo 42 it feels fresh and modern. You can rotate the camera around to view the urban landscape from multiple angles, and the city itself is almost like a diminutive take on the open-world genre. Though it’s not especially massive, it’s surprisingly open, offering the freedom to try different routes and tactics to complete missions.
The place is simply a joy to walk around. In addition to seedy hideouts and busy transportation hubs, the rooftop city is home to relaxing zen gardens and serene urban waterfalls. Tokyo 42 is primarily a game about murder, yet the experience is often peaceful and playful. The perspective makes it feel more detached than more visceral 3D shooters, so I never felt especially guilty when I’d accidentally lob a grenade into a busy crowd or take out an innocent bystander with an errant sword swing. And so the city feels more like a playground. There are plenty of areas to hide from pursuing enemies or sneak up on a target, and the game’s floaty, exaggerated jump adds a touch of urban parkour as you find new ways to get about.
Strychalski and his brother Sean Wright originally decided with Tokyo 42 to make a game together inspired by the titles they grew up playing, in particular the original Grand Theft Auto and Syndicate. One of the goals was to take the ideas in those games — namely the idea of a large isometric world — and expand on them. “There was the kind of promise of this open city, which [Rockstar] fulfilled with the later games in three dimensions, but they never did it from the god-view, top-down,” explains Strychalski. “I personally wanted to take that idea: ‘What if GTA III wasn’t a third-person thing, but it kept the same perspective as the original ones?’”
The world of Tokyo 42 is larger and offers more freedom than its inspirations. It’s  noticeably more vertical: instead of moving through city streets, you’re constantly shifting up and down the rooftops of buildings, navigating twisting staircases and perilous drops. This had a practical benefit, as it allowed the two-man team to create a plausibly small slice of a huge metropolis. “We didn’t want to have invisible walls,” says Wright. “Our solution to that was to put it all on rooftops — you can believe there’s a whole ground level as well.” But it  helped them create a very specific kind of moment, one inspired in part by Assassin’s Creed. “We wanted to get that feeling of being able to stand on top of a building and look out at the city,” Strychalski says.
For all of its new features and ideas, Tokyo 42’s influences are clear when you play. And that’s not something the developers were trying to avoid. “In the process of making our own thing, it’s so comforting to be able to look at games like that and draw on one of their mechanics and just be like ‘Well I know that works because I loved using it there,’” says Wright.
The end result is a game that blurs multiple lines, both in how it plays and the themes it explores. Playing Tokyo 42 is like experiencing a modern open-world shooter in the body of an old-school isometric game. Meanwhile, its take on cyberpunk calls to mind classics like Akira or Neuromancer, but with a distinct, much lighter tone and feel. That said, while Tokyo 42 plays with the themes of cyberpunk in a number of ways, there was one area where the team was sure it didn’t want to change things up.
“It has to be Tokyo,” says Strychalski. “There’s no other place for us — I can’t think of any other place that it could be.”
Tokyo 42 launches today on PC and Xbox One. A PS4 version is coming later on.
SoundCloud has released an app on Xbox One, allowing users to listen to the millions of tracks available on the streaming service. The app  work for anyone with a SoundCloud account — paid or free — and users  be able to listen to music in the background while they play a game.
An app for Windows 10 is launching in beta as well, and  be available in the Windows Store later this week. Hopefully a Mac app is  in the works — desktop apps for music services are usually an improvement over another battery-draining Chrome tab. You can download the SoundCloud app on your Xbox One today.
Lenovo’s Motorola Canada Twitter account is building the hype. Tomorrow, apparently, the company is announcing its “next bold phone.” The tweet comes with an attached GIF of a woman with ‘80s-esque hair and clothes sitting in a hair salon. I don’t know how this could possibly relate to the phone, but here’s to hoping Lenovo brings the message home tomorrow.
The announcement could involve the rumored Moto Z2 Play, which has leaked multiple times over the past few months. That phone is expected to include a smaller battery than its predecessor, the Z Play, with a 3000mAh capacity. That drop in battery life reduces the phone’s thickness, too. TechnoBuffalo leaked the below image in April:
We’ll keep you posted tomorrow on Lenovo’s announcement and whether all these Z2 Play leaks were actually accurate.
Laser projectors aren’t exactly cheap, and portable ones  cost you even more. That’s why LG’s $1,500 ProBeam laser projector is notable — it’s (relatively) cheap and can be moved without much hassle.
The 4.6-pound ProBeam, which is about the size of a football, can project up to 2,000 lumens of brightness and produce a picture as big as 120 inches at 1080p. (It’s kind of disappointing that this isn’t 4K.) The usual slate of HDMIs, audio outs, and USB ports are  included. It  comes with Bluetooth support, so you can connect your headphones or portable speakers.
The projector runs webOS as well, giving you full smart TV features for all the cord cutters out there. The LG ProBeam is available today from online retailers including Newegg and B&H.
Alexa can now remind you about appointments from yet another calendar service: iCloud. Devices including the Echo lineup and other Alexa-enabled gadgets have added support for iCloud calendars as of today. Amazon says that iCloud calendars have been a “top requested feature” from customers, which makes sense. A whole lot of iPhone and iPad users probably create one when setting up their device out of the box.
You can link your iCloud account through the settings section of Amazon’s mobile Alexa app. Once that’s done, you can ask what’s on your schedule for the day — or tell Alexa to add a new calendar entry.
With the addition of iCloud, Amazon now counts five “major” calendar services that Alexa works with. They are:
The new Core X-series chips from Intel sound very powerful and good, but there's one caveat: you'll need a new motherboard. The current standard Z270 motherboard chipset is a "consumer" product, and the new X-series processors have a different pin layout, and are designed for a slightly more demanding customer with deeper pockets.
The X299 isn't a huge upgrade over the Z270, but it's a major leap past the X99 boards, which hosted the last generation of Intel's most extreme chips. X299 chipsets support up to 24 PCIe 3.0 lanes, compared to the paltry eight PCIe 2.0 lanes on X99. Paired with the new processors, you're looking at an embarrassment of I/O — you can load a system up with multi-gigabit Ethernet, a few GPUs, and a couple of M.2 SSDs, and still have headroom to spare for your USB 3.1 daisy chain, Thunderbolt, and a handful of SATA devices.
Unfortunately, the fact that Intel is giving two fairly different CPUs (Skylake and Kaby Lake) the X-series treatment means not all X299 motherboards  be created equally. Depending on which CPU you pick, you'll have different amounts of I/O support, and different compatible RAM configurations. That means, depending on your chosen pairing, you can conceivably buy a motherboard with a lot of "features" that you can't make use of, or a CPU that's held back by the motherboard's limits.
It sounds as if the whole reason Intel is even offering the lower-end Skylake chips is to let people get a fancy new X299 motherboard now, and upgrade the CPU when budget allows. But if that's the case, anyone with a competent Z270 system on their desk right now won't probably have much of a reason to sidegrade. As Anandtech writes: "This is arguably a big mess."
Anyway, let's look at these motherboards!
Gigabyte's Auros Gaming series motherboards highlight something most of these systems have in common: some sort of M.2 cooling or monitoring to make sure your fastest SSD drives don't throttle down due to heat concerns. All three models in the series support up to three M.2 drives, which is a nice upgrade over the one or two slots you can expect on most Z270 boards. Because this series is all about gaming, Gigabyte  packed in a bunch of RGB fluff.
Asus has an absurd seven different X299 motherboards right out of the gate. The top-end ROG Rampage VI supports four-way SLI, has a 10Gb Ethernet chipset, and 802.11ad Wi-Fi. There's  a little OLED display for peeking your stats.
MSI's Gaming M7 ACK has dual Killer E2500 Ethernet controllers and Killer 1535 Wi-Fi which can all be combined into a single connection.
EVGA has an overclocking-focused board called the X299 Dark, which supports four-way SLI and  includes dedicated M.2 cooling. There's  triple BIOS support, which is amazing. EVGA  has a micro-ATX form factor board which supports two-way SLI.
ASRock managed to make a mini-ITX form factor X299 board, which still includes four memory slots and three M.2 slots, but cuts the GPU opportunities down to one. ASRock's Gaming i9 board meanwhile has 10Gb Ethernet built in.
I'm going to wait for some reviews (or at least price tags) to start rolling in before I try and choose a candidate for an X299 build. To be honest, most of the specs are probably overkill for my purposes — and I still haven't put together a Ryzen system! But it's exciting to see this much power and expandability available out of the gate for these long-awaited CPUs.
Waze is expanding its carpooling service to the entire state of California three months after it made the service available in the Bay Area, according to a report from TechCrunch. Waze Carpool  be available to all California residents on June 6th.
The service, which launched as a pilot program last year in San Fransisco, isn’t designed to compete with carpool offerings from ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft, but to take advantage of the community that Waze has built in its app to help cut down on traffic. Drivers aren’t paid like Lyft or Uber drivers — they get paid no more than the federal mileage rate of $0.54 a mile — so this won’t become a part-time gig.
The idea seems novel, but the question is how many people outside of the tech-influenced Bay Area  be ing to pick up strangers on their route for a couple bucks? I guess we’ll find out soon enough.
I don’t consider myself a picky eater, but there are certain things I just can’t swallow. Raw celery, for example, or cilantro. Another one is ripe bananas. When bananas turn bright yellow or start having those hideous brown spots, forget it. I have to throw the whole bunch away. I can’t even stand the smell. The only time I can eat the fruit is when the peel is still greenish — at least at the tips.
Apparently, that’s not how many of my friends eat their bananas. I’ve gotten into several heated conversations about optimal ripeness level — so I decided to investigate this and call up some scientists. Is there a best time to eat a banana? Does anything in the fruit change as it ripens?
First off, let’s make clear that I’m talking only about Cavendish bananas. That’s basically the only type of banana you can find in the US — at least for now. The Cavendish is being wiped out by a disease called Tropical Race 4, and that’s because the Cavendish has basically no genetic diversity. But around the world, hundreds of banana species exist — with different shapes, tastes, and colors. Yes, red bananas exist.
Bananas are known for being packed with nutrients — particularly potassium, vitamin C, vitamin B6, and fiber. As the fruit ripens, the concentration of these nutrients does not change, says David Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University. The only thing that does change is that the starch turns into sugar — mainly fructose and glucose. So the longer you wait, the sweeter the banana is going to taste. That doesn’t mean that eating a greener banana is healthier, because your digestive system is eventually going to turn the starch into sugar anyway, Levitsky says. So the calorie count doesn’t change.
However, eating a greener banana might have some slight added health benefits. That’s because it contains just a tiny bit more of a starch called resistant starch, which humans can’t digest but is loved by your good gut bacteria. “It’s the kind of starchy material that bacteria look to feed on,” says Nicholas Gillitt, vice president of nutrition research and director of the Dole Nutrition Institute. (Dole is one of the world’s biggest producers of fruits and veggies.)
So, if nutritional values basically don’t change as the banana ripens, why is the banana considered ripe and ready to eat when it’s bright yellow and freckled? (The Dole banana color guide says that the “full yellow” banana is the one with “great eating flavor,” while banana producer Chiquita says that “most people like their bananas when the peel is yellow or yellow with brown flecks.”) It might have to do with the eating standards that banana companies like Chiquita set before anyone in the US really knew what bananas were, says Dan Koeppel, author of Banana: The Fate of the Fruit That Changed the World.
Bananas were introduced to the United States as an import product around 1876, when they were  exhibited as an exotic fruit at the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition. So at the turn of the century, bananas were a novel fruit and Americans didn’t know how to eat them and when, Koeppel says. “Chiquita really had to do a lot to build interest and educate people about bananas,” he says.
First off, Americans (and Europeans) had to learn that it was okay for proper ladies to eat phallic fruits, Koeppel says. In the late 1800s, postcards of nicely dressed ladies eating bananas were distributed all over. Other photos showed proper Victorian ladies cutting bananas with a knife to get rid of the embarrassing shape.
Then, Americans had to be taught about when the tropical exotic fruit is ripe and ready to eat. And for that, Chiquita made the Chiquita Banana jingle, which hit the airwaves in 1944; it was at times played 376 times a day on radio stations across the US, the Chiquita website says. Here’s how the song went:
I'm Chiquita banana and I've come to say / Bananas have to ripen in a certain way / When they are fleck'd with brown and have a golden hue / Bananas taste the best and are best for you.
And here’s a version of the song turned into a cartoon, which appeared in movie theaters across the US, says Bettina Stier Scatamachia, Chiquita’s director of marketing.
As bananas became a staple of lunch boxes, and banana bread recipes flourished, the lyrics of the Chiquita jingle changed. In 1999, the song began highlighting the nutritional benefits of bananas instead. Apparently 50 years of banana-eating had familiarized America with the fruit’s ripening stages.
The problem is, I strongly disagree with Chiquita (and not just because the company was one of the most evil corporations in the world). When bananas “are fleck'd with brown and have a golden hue” I want to throw them in the trash can. But that’s okay. The best time to eat a banana really depends on your taste. Levitsky, the nutrition professor at Cornell, wants his banana bright yellow; brown spots are okay but no mushiness. My editor Liz Lopatto thinks all bananas are garbage. And I like them greenish — sometimes so green that peeling them is hard. I think everyone should agree with me, but apparently some don’t.
“If you eat a green banana, it’s like eating a raw potato,” Koeppel says. “If you eat it uncooked, it’s not going to be that much fun for people.”
Update March 29th 1:20PM ET: The article was updated to say that Chiquita was one of the most evil corporations in the world rather than still is. On March 27th, I was contacted by Reto Zangerl, a spokesperson for Chiquita International, who told me that Chiquita "has changed and developed within the past 25 years," investing in sustainability for example. As the link to the New York Times article I provide says, the troubled history of banana production in Latin America belongs to United Fruit Company, which was the precursor to Chiquita.
Update May 31st 10:00AM ET: This article was originally published on March 25, 2017 and has been updated to include video.
Spotify released its “official” predictions for the song of the summer this morning, and, to be honest, I don’t think it’s fair that it got to pick 15 of them. Anyone can guess the song of the summer if they get 15 tries!
The songs were selected using a fascinating combination of vague-sounding scientific techniques. According to a press release, each song was chosen by “tapping the insights of its genre and trend experts, analyzing its streaming data, and considering factors such as a song’s performance on the charts, on key Spotify playlists, and how it’s performing over time.”
Spotify  “factored in buzz on social media,” so I’m not sure how we got all the way to the following list without so much as touching on the fact that Justin Bieber says bad, fake Spanish on the #1 track in the United States right now. I’m pretty sure people are just hate-listening to it.
fuck you, justin bieber. your hell is gonna be an 8th grade spanish class that you perpetually fail https://t.co/4re2TT7LHA
Anyway, after Spotify selected the 15 songs most likely to burrow their way into your skull through August, it labeled each with the summer situation that it is perfect for — with the mildly funny exception of two songs by Future and Lil Uzi Vert, which are labeled only with the information that they are rap songs. Noted!
But here’s what most of these songs are actually perfect for: being bummed out. Or, to borrow a phrase, crying in the club. Liam Payne’s debut song as a solo artist is one of the worst things I have ever heard in my life, and that is coming from someone who tried to believe in him even after he compared himself to Tyga. Working through the list, I doubt we (as a species) are capable of fathoming Niall Horan, a perfect angel of love and light and intellectual curiosity, at all, or ever  be. As such, his post-One Direction solo music  only ever hurt us a little, like sipping pure grain alcohol or staring into the sun.
“Malibu” strikes me as a song written and performed under coercion, and I don’t really want to talk about how bad Shawn Mendes is because the last time I did that I received upwards of 500 death threats on the internet. Any song featuring Alessia Cara and Khalid, the idols of a brand-new generation of teens that I am not a part of and can’t completely relate to, is only going to make me feel like I am nearing death.
In summer, we need to party while we can... while Congress is in recess. We deserve a better “club banger” than a track with Katy Perry on it, weakly dissing another pop star who  doesn’t belong in the club, and we deserve to forget that Imagine Dragons is a thing, which I mostly had until right now. We deserve true apocalypse pop or its polar opposite — the brain-pickling earnest romanticism of Carly Rae Jepsen’s latest offering — and nothing in between. If we deserve anything from Kendrick Lamar’s DAMN. it’s “FEAR” or “LOVE,” and oh my god, what is wrong with everyone who is letting Lana Del Rey’s two perfect summer singles sit in the corner gathering dust? This is no fault of Spotify’s, but 2017’s summer pop roster could really use a few heroes.

(“Bad Liar” is incredible. If the list had stopped there it would have been a great list.)
The best summer song is the one that gets pumped, whether you like it or not, out of every car window in the United States for three entire months. Spotify, to its credit, does not dare to guess which song that might be. We’ll find out soon enough.
Three weeks until summer, please hold on!
Steven Universe has emerged as one of the most important cartoons on television today — few Western animated series are equipped to handle ideas like queer identity and the brutal cost of war so gracefully. As the show’s fandom has grown, the title character has become steadily more ubiquitous, with an ever-expanding presence in children’s books, comics, and even video games. In 2015, Grumpyface Studios released the well-received Steven Universe: Attack the Light for iOS and Android. It’s a charming tie-in game — a love letter to Nintendo games like Paper Mario and The Legend of Zelda — and, as a story, it feels perfectly at home in Steven’s world.
This year, Cartoon Network and Grumpyface are releasing Steven Universe: Save the Light, a direct sequel, and the studio’s first full-fledged console release. For this effort, the team — with help from the TV series’s creator, Rebecca Sugar — aimed to build a more ambitious game set in the universe of the show, with new characters, richer gameplay mechanics, and a longer campaign that rewards diehards and series newcomers alike. More significant than that, though, is the game’s attempt to strike at the heart of Steven Universe’s driving philosophy: that our relationships with the ones we love and the things we care about make us stronger.
“This is our first console game, so right away, we knew this was gonna be a big undertaking for us,” Grumpyface director and owner Chris Graham told The Verge earlier this month. “This time, we wanted to go deeper. You’ve got the 3D world with all sorts of realms to explore. You’ve got side quests, a crafting system, character perks, upgrades, customizable teams. Really, from [the] top down, we said to ourselves, ‘This needs to be suitable for consoles, and be the biggest possible Steven Universe adventure we can imagine.’”
That much was obvious in the opening moments of the demo version we previewed earlier this month. From the beginning, it plants players in a fully realized, 3D version of Beach City, Steven’s fictional hometown. The open world isn’t as vast as, say, Hyrule in Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, but it’s easy to see that a great deal of care went into re-creating the boardwalk from the show, complete with its shops, hideaways, and the colorful supporting cast milling around. (Graham  admits that the game’s style was inspired by Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, so the team’s love for Nintendo is as clear as ever.)
In Save The Light, Steven explores a variety of worlds on his quest to rescue the ancient light weapon he befriended in the first game. Joining Steven on his adventure are the Crystal Gems — alien warriors Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl — along with Steven’s best friend, Connie, and his father, Greg Universe. As in the series and original game, the Gems have a variety of combat abilities, like Pearl’s spear and beam attacks, and Garnet’s magic gauntlets. Connie and Greg add even more depth to the action; Connie’s sword makes her a frontline fighter, while Greg’s guitar lets him amplify the abilities of other party members. Steven, with few offensive abilities of his own, serves as the support character, since he can heal his friends, shield them from danger, and even resurrect them if they’re defeated. Not only are these abilities useful in battle, but the developers brought some of them — like Greg’s musical talents — into the open world, too, adding platforming and puzzle-solving elements to the game.
“When we did the first game, we had all these big, ambitious ideas that we had to put into a smaller game,” Sugar says. “Now, we get to expand on everything, especially a lot of the relationship dynamics that in these small ways, sort of snuck into the first game. Like, you tell a joke that you know one of the Gems  laugh at. Who you’re trying to impress or support has gone from a kind of Easter egg to being a huge part of the gameplay.”
That relationship system is key to the game, and it’s part of what makes the adventure fit so well alongside the series it draws from. During battle, the game rewards players for defending teammates, or executing a perfect combo by having characters build up relationship points with each other. Those points build up over time, and when maxed out, they can unlock new abilities. For instance, Steven and Connie can gain the ability to fuse into Stevonnie, an “experience” who embodies the best of both characters.
Stevonnie is a walking thesis statement for the show, and the fusion’s presence is not only fun for fans, it  hammers home how important it was to the game’s creators to have Steven Universe’s emotional underpinnings influence their work. “For me,” Sugar says, “the big goal is to have everything that I get the chance to see or touch [in the game] have the feeling that the show has.”
The designers sought to establish a tighter connection with the show’s story. Since Steven Universe’s 2013 debut, the show’s lore about the Crystal Gems and the war against their Homeworld has expanded alongside Steven’s coming-of-age story. Where Attack the Light was related to that larger narrative in a fairly oblique way, Graham says this new game  connect that story with the sweep of the show’s mythology.
“[Rebecca] had a great vision for how this could fit in, and we’re so happy to be able to have our own little take on Steven Universe,” he said. “You’re gonna find out a lot of extra little things about the show from the game, I think.”
Steven Universe: Save the Light  land on the PS4 this summer and other consoles in the months ahead.

When the Chevrolet Bolt was introduced last year, it captured a sweet spot in the marketplace. With the launch of the Bolt, GM became the first carmaker to sell a fully electric car with a range of over 200 miles and a sticker price under $40,000. It won industry accolades and awards and put GM back on the map in the electric car race. GM did exactly what Tesla is still promising with its forthcoming Model 3, but unlike that car, the Bolt is available right now.
Driving a fully electric car in the present has its own set of challenges, however, even one with an extended range compared to other models like the BMW i3 or the Nissan Leaf. We spent a week driving the Bolt in upstate New York to get an idea of what it’s like to live with a fully electric car on a daily basis — and whether we’re ready to give up our gasoline-powered people movers just yet.
reMarkable was announced late last December with an ambitious goal: to serve as a digital paper device so good that it could make traditional paper notebooks obsolete. It’s been a few months since that original announcement, and earlier this month I was finally able to get some hands-on time with a prototype of the tablet to put those claims to the test.
The prototype I got to try was a seventh-generation model, with the company expecting to go through a few more rounds of hardware before the launch, which is still set for August for the first preorders from last December.
E Ink displays have gotten pretty good over the last few years, and the reMarkable’s 10.3-inch panel holds up with more established players, like Amazon’s Kindle line at 226 ppi. Although, like actual paper, it lacks a built-in backlight. Another sacrifice of the E Ink surface is a minimal amount of ghosting when erasing or opening up menus.
The most important thing the reMarkable has to nail is the actual act of writing with it. According to CEO Magnus Wanberg, a huge part of the tablet’s development involved figuring out a way to reduce latency with an E Ink display. The prototype I tested had that down to roughly 65–70 milliseconds, and the company hopes to reduce that even further to around 55 milliseconds in the final version that ships. It’s definitely one of the better pens I’ve used, although there was still some lag when I was scribbling words quickly. Spec wise, that’s still not quite up to par with solutions like Microsoft’s new Surface Pen, which boasts latency at just 21 milliseconds, or even the Apple Pencil, which is estimated at roughly 50 milliseconds. Given the nature of E Ink as a technology, however, it’s still pretty impressive.
The real standout feature to me was the feeling of writing on the tablet. The reMarkable screen isn’t made out of glass, but rather a more durable and fricative material that really does feel like writing on paper with a pen or pencil. Even the sound is a delightfully tactile scratching that mimics the experience of writing in real life. The reMarkable pen tip does wear down, however, and  need to be replaced from time to time, although the pen does cleverly conceal a spare tip hidden in the top of the pen.
The drawing app is fairly robust, with a variety of pen types and weights, the ability to zoom in and out, and support for layers. The company is  working on developing various preset templates for note taking, from a traditional college ruled notebook to a perspective grid for architectural drawings.
Along with drawing and writing, the reMarkable can display PDFs (which can be annotated) and EPUB files, both of which work well enough. All files — including drawings — are automatically backed up to the cloud and accessible from a linked Mac or Windows app. Drawings can  be shared live from a reMarkable tablet to show up on a computer screen, which is a neat feature for collaborative work.
reMarkable is planning on selling the tablet for a final price of $529. (The pen  be sold separately, at least for now, for an additional $79.) That’s expensive, no matter how you slice it, especially when compared to a fully featured iPad which costs roughly as much. For their part, Wanberg acknowledges that they're aware of where they stand in the market and aren't looking to compete directly with Apple. According to Wanberg, the reMarkable is designed for "paper people" who prefer sketching, note taking, or doodling by hand and just want a digital means to do that.
The reMarkable is certainly good at what it does, and compared to other products in this broad category, like Sony’s $700 DPT-RP1, it is a bit cheaper. But it’s still hard to see reMarkable’s paper tablet moving beyond a niche as a secondary or even tertiary device for people that price point. Still, it’s a nicely designed product that sets out what it accomplishes. If the company can find a way to get the price down, it could be a real success.
Warner Bros. and Legendary Entertainment’s Godzilla vs. Kong, slated for a May 2020 release, has just named its director, Deadline reports. Adam Wingard, best known for his critically acclaimed indie horror breakthrough You’re Next (2011), and more recently for Blair Witch (2016), a low-budget spinoff sequel to the 1999 found footage classic,  pick up his first monster movie.
Wingard  recently finished work on Netflix’s Death Note, a live-action adaptation of the popular 2003 manga series, which  stream in August. The choice echoes the studio’s hiring of Gareth Edwards, who made a name for himself with indie horror film Monsters, to direct 2014’s Godzilla. The decision hints that Legendary’s already gritty take on the monster movie  be getting even darker in installments to come.
Godzilla vs. Kong  be the fourth film in Warner Bros. / Legendary Entertainment’s monster series, following 2014’s Godzilla, this year’s Kong: Skull Island, and Godzilla: King of the Monster in 2019. An unrelated TV show called King Kong Skull Island, written by The Bye Bye Man’s Jonathan Penner and Stacy Title and produced by IM Global, is  coming soon.
Wingard has worked from scripts written by collaborator Simon Barrett on all of his best-known projects, but Godzilla vs. Kong has yet to announce a screenwriter. Legendary did announce an absurd roster of writers in March who would collaboratively storyboard the project and build out the future of the “MonsterVerse” franchise, pulling in Patrick McKay and J.D. Payne (Star Trek Beyond and Star Trek 4), Lindsey Beer (The Kingkiller Chronicles), Cat Vasko (Queen of the Air), T.S. Nowlin (Maze Runner, Pacific Rim: Uprising), Jack Paglen (Transcendence, Alien: Covenant), and J. Michael Straczynski (Babylon 5, World War Z, Sense8). As my colleague Andrew Liptak noted at the time, this practice isn’t entirely uncommon anymore: there’s a writers’ group tasked with keeping all of the Star Wars storylines in order, and, somehow, another is responsible for remembering and guiding the various plots of the Transformers franchise. You can think of it as a TV writers’ room, but for films that  make hundreds of millions of dollars no matter what.

The unlocked versions of Samsung’s Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus are available starting today at Best Buy retail stores. The S8 is $724.99 and the S8 Plus is $824.99. Both are  being sold directly by Samsung, but Best Buy is probably your fastest bet if you didn’t pre-order; quite a few stores here in New York are already stocking the unlocked devices. The unlocked Galaxy S8 is compatible with all four major networks in the US, as it offers the necessary support for both GSM and CDMA bands.
Buying the unlocked Galaxy S8 makes sense if you really hate carrier bloat, but you might be waiting a long time for software updates. Last year’s unlocked Galaxy S7 was updated at a snail’s pace compared to carrier versions of the phone, which received new software features (and Android Nougat) months before the unlocked model.
Another unlocked phone release today is the BlackBerry KeyOne, which you can purchase from either Amazon or Best Buy for $549.99. Just be careful about which model you buy, as the TCL-made BlackBerry comes in two configurations.
The one sold at Best Buy stores (and  Amazon) works on GSM networks like AT&T and T-Mobile. But if you’re on Verizon, only Amazon is carrying the model “optimized” for that network. I can’t find the Amazon listing just yet, and I’m not clear on whether that one is  compatible with GSM networks, so I’ve asked TCL for clarification. It sure would’ve made things simpler for buyers if TCL had shipped a phone that works on any network. Sprint  be adding the KeyOne to its phone portfolio at some point.
Related
The KeyOne is a solid Android smartphone — especially if a physical keyboard appeals to you. But that keyboard leads to sacrifices elsewhere. Namely, the display is smaller than what you might be used to. But it’s a reliable smartphone with excellent battery life. And that keyboard opens up a ton of personalization options.
Planning on getting either one?
Cao Fei makes artwork that is a both a physical product and a reflection of internet culture. In 2008, she built a RMB City on Second Life, featuring the avatar China Tracy, and sold the real estate to an art collector. For the short film La Town, she bought toys online and used stop animation to depict Santa Claus riding a high-speed train, influenced by an actual train crash in her native China. She made Haze and Fog in 2013, a 46-minute silent film about zombies. On a deeper level she engages with the challenges facing a rapidly changing China and how to reckon an ancient culture with an evolving technological society.
Her most recent work is the BMW Art Car #18, a carbon black M6 GT3 revealed today at the Minsheng Art Museum in Beijing. But unlike her well-known predecessors Andy Warhol and Alexander Calder, who painted early BMW art cars, Fei works in multimedia and made a video that uses augmented reality and  be accessible through an iOS app.
She spent three years conceiving the project commissioned by BMW. For her research, she spent time on the track with racecar driver Cyndi Allemann and visited a BMW factory in Tiexi, China. She is the youngest art car artist at 39, but she already has had an art career that spans two decades and includes prestigious exhibitions and a 2016 retrospective at MoMA PS1 in New York City. Her car follows the work of John Baldessari, revealed in December at Art Basel.
While she represents an emerging generation of artists, her work engages with China’s past in public and personal ways. Her father was a sculptor who adhered to the party standard in his works, according to a New York Times profile.
In the short clip featured in the film Unmanned, a young man dressed in traditional clothing is shown crossing a bridge where he encounters modern-day China as a city and industrial society. In the next scene he is sitting cross legged, wearing a VR headset, surrounded by a parking lot stacked with white cars. The set transforms into the digital realm as he channels beams of neon lights through his fingertips and the dazzling art car appears as the bass-heavy hip-hop beat fades out in the background.
The multimedia installation of her work  be on view at the BMW Experience in Shanghai along with a VR experience at Art Basel in Switzerland in June. But at the core of the work is technical engineering, speed, and 586 horsepower; in November, the Cao Fei art car  be raced at the FIA GT World Cup in Macau by BMW factory driver Augusto Farfus, who  raced the Baldessari art car earlier in the year. The art car series dates back to 1975, and it comes along at irregular intervals. Fei’s meditation on time and use of physical space suits the pressing issues of the day.
It seems like a long time since Sony unveiled its flagship XZ Premium at MWC in February, but the luxe handset is finally going on sale in the US. The XZ Premium  be available to preorder from Best Buy and Amazon for $799 on June 12th, or buy outright and unlocked on June 19th from the same retailers, plus Fry’s. Its standout features are a 5.5-inch 4K screen and camera capable of capturing slow-motion 720p, 960 fps video footage. In our first impressions earlier this year, we weren’t sure if the XZ Premium belonged in a museum (and not in a good way).
 going on sale from Sony in June: the company’s Xperia Touch projector, which is capable of turning any surface into a touchscreen. It’ll retail for an eye-watering $1,699.99, and is available to preorder online on June 16th or buy in store exclusively at Sony’s flagship Madison Ave store in NYC. The projector is powered by Android and is supposed to be used like a digital hub for families, offering functions like Skype video chat and a shared notice board.
These are premium devices, and they follow Sony’s new strategy of focusing on the high-end of the mobile market. The company announced last week that it would be discontinuing its “premium standard” mobiles (aka midrange) to concentrate on selling pricier handsets. Sony is launching at least two more Xperia phones later this year, and one of the last of its midrange devices — the $299 Xperia XA1 —  goes on sale in June, available in stores starting on July 2nd.
Microsoft showed off a bunch of hardware at its Computex Taipei presentation today, most of which we’d seen before. One thing we’d never seen in person, however, is Harman Kardon’s Invoke — the audio company’s take on a digital assistant speaker, powered by Microsoft’s Cortana.
Unfortunately the Invoke demo unit was not turned on or plugged in, so all I can report to you is that it is indeed cylindrical and looks at least as up to the task of imprisoning an AI assistant as the Amazon Echo. It ought to sound better, too, given Harman Kardon’s audio pedigree and inclusion of three times as many woofers and drivers. The main question, of course, is how well Cortana performs in a device like this.
The Invoke is set to ship this fall for an as-yet undisclosed price.
Levitating gimcrackery is perhaps my favorite genre of Kickstarter rubbish, but in recent months I’ve grown tired of the category. All manner of airborne accessories have floated across my desk — from light bulbs and bonsai trees to clocks and speakers — and it feels like the gimmick is ready to die. But, I’d like to make one last exception for perhaps the silliest, and most enjoyable, levitating item I’ve seen to date: a floating incense holder.
It’s called the Yun, and its Kickstarter campaign is full of wildly optimistic promises about the product’s zen possibilities. Setting up this so-called “aroma spaceship” (aka balancing the base on a wobbling magnetic field)  help users “focus and concentrate in a mindful way,” say the Yun’s creators, while watching the smoke float away  relieve them from stress and assist in “[staying] focused on the present moment.” This isn’t a fancy incense holder — it’s a full meditation with all the associated health benefits.
To which I say: whatever. But this thing still looks very cool. Levitation in and of itself might have become boring, but the curling stream of incense that pours out of the base of the $115 Yun adds a new dimension of movement that — I’d guess — is very good to stare at when gazing into the middle-distance. And, who knows, while staring absentmindedly, you might find a little bit of enlightenment, too. You can check out the full Kickstarter video below:
Every year, PC gear company Thermaltake brings a bunch of custom-built gaming PCs to Computex Taipei. They can get pretty wild, but the company has seriously outdone itself this time. Witness this astonishing work of art, credited to ThermalMike:
Yes, since you ask, that is a Donkey Kong-themed PC inside a modded Tower 900 case with colored liquid coolant representing the classic arcade game's girders and ladders. Well played, ThermalMike.

Designer Pierre Buttin has taken brutalism to a new extreme with a series of redesigned mobile apps. In his latest project, titled Brutalist redesigns, Buttin renders Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and other popular apps in a brutalist style, with text-heavy layouts and flattened designs.
Buttin says he incorporated elements from Brutalist Websites, a site that highlights rugged — or “ugly” — web design. The site’s founder, Pascal Deville, defines brutalist web design by “its ruggedness and lack of concern to look comfortable or easy,” characterizing it as “a reaction by a younger generation to the lightness, optimism, and frivolity of today's web design.” The aesthetic has seen a resurgence online in recent years, leading Buttin to wonder what it may look like in the mobile sphere.
“The aim of this project is to start a conversation about what's coming UI-wise, and how it should be done,” Buttin writes on his website. “Indeed, it seems that brutalism is still loosely defined: is it more about Swiss minimalism or just raw coding?”
Buttin, whose previous digital projects have explored online multitasking and abstracted Tinder profiles, says Instagram “paved the way” for brutalist app design with the “bold” update it released last year. His rendering of the photo sharing app is identical to the current version, and others, such as WhatsApp and Amazon, don’t look drastically different. Other redesigns, such as Twitter and Candy Crush, are far more extreme.
In an email to The Verge, he points to mobile sites like Bloomberg, The Outline, and Balenciaga as a sign that brutalism is moving “from avant garde to mainstream,” and he speculates that more may follow the trend as “the public taste  evolve.” There may be other incentives for app designers, as well; as Buttin notes, some experts have suggested that text-heavy designs drive higher user engagement.
“We have seen the rise of flat design, and it seems that designers now look at pushing it to the extremes,” the Lyon-based designer tells The Verge. And although he isn’t sure whether brutalism is the future of UI design, Button hopes “that this project  keep the conversation going in the tech industry.”






As The Verge's resident headphone obsessive, I often find myself having to justify to people why they should spend more than, say, $50 for superior sound quality. I relish the challenge, and I do my best to be an ambassador for better audio equipment that may be a bit pricier. But then I look at cameras like this here Nikon Coolpix W300, which has the temerity to cost $389.95 (or €469 in Europe / £389 in Brexit-addled Britain), and my heart sinks a little. Why are people prepared to throw down the best part of $400 on a simpleton point-and-shoot?
My grievance is with the lack of symmetry. We're habituated to cameras costing a few hundred dollars, so when a reputable name like Nikon is plastered onto a new (admittedly waterproof and ruggedized) orange shell, we seem to be okay with the associated cost. Other things in our lives, such as chairs, backpacks, and yes, headphones have all seen their entry-level price reduced to ridiculous levels thanks to mass manufacturing and cutting corners on quality, and so our expectations of them have shifted (unfairly, in my opinion).
For $389, you can buy a Peak Design Everyday Backpack plus a set of field pouches and accessories and still have enough money left over for a week's worth of celebratory mocha frappuccinos. Or you can grab a NASA wallet made out of high-quality leather that might last you a decade. Or get most of the way to acquiring a Herman Miller chair. Or, should you have an extra 11 bucks, you can obtain a pair of the delightful Bowers & Wilkins P7 Wireless or the noise-cancelling Sony 1000Xs and get into the world of wireless sound in luxurious style.
Or you can spend your money on a camera that looks like this:
Please don't misread this to be an indictment of Nikon or of the class of basic point-and-shoot cameras that just do their job. I think there's obviously a space and a demand for cameras of the W300's rugged ilk, but I don't think it's at $389. Smartphones have obviated most of the applications for dedicated point-and-shoots these days, and they cost dramatically less: a little over $200 for the Moto G5 Plus, for example. Their image quality is not far behind, either, and Nikon has unfortunately never really distinguished itself through its Coolpix range, which seems almost entirely divorced from its superb DSLR lineup.
What I'm arguing is that we should weigh purchases not based on the anchoring point of the cheapest thing in their category, but on the value and quality they can provide us. I think a chair you'd spend day after day sitting on is inherently more valuable than a camera you might use on the occasional trip to the beach. And the same goes for a reliable bag or wallet, as well as for headphones, the most ubiquitous gadget that isn't a smartphone.
Amazon has received a patent for a shipping label that includes a built-in parachute, “to enable the delivery of packages by [unpiloted] aerial vehicles (UAVs) or other aerial vehicles.” The patent, as reported by GeekWire, was filed in August 2015 and granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Monday.
It is unclear whether the system  ever be put into use, though the patent may provide new insight into Amazon’s Prime Air drone delivery project. The system calls for a packaging label that would be integrated with a folded parachute and a network of cords. It could  incorporate a breakaway cover, shock absorbers, and a network of sensors built into a drone to track the package’s descent. The system could be adapted to accommodate an item’s size, and could incorporate several parachutes for heavy packages.
Amazon began trialling its drone delivery system in the UK late last year, and the company completed its first Prime Air demonstration in the US in March. Parachutes didn’t figure into either trial — the autonomous drones simply landed and released their packages — but a patent granted to Amazon in February calls for packages to be released with parachutes mid-flight. Zipline, a California-based startup, has  been using parachutes to deliver blood from drones to remote areas of Rwanda.
Amazon hopes its Prime Air network  eventually deliver packages within 30 minutes, and it has gradually accumulated patents on drone technology and infrastructure. But the company still faces regulatory hurdles in the US, where autonomous drones are still not authorized to fly under current FAA rules.



Microsoft is unveiling more of its range of Windows Mixed Reality headsets at Computex today. After revealing that Acer, ASUS, Dell, HP, and Lenovo  all create headsets, Microsoft is providing a little more detail about the Dell, Asus, and Lenovo devices today. Dell is creating a white headset, designed by the company’s XPS and Alienware teams, that  be available at an “affordable” price point this holiday. Dell’s headset includes a weight balanced headband, replaceable cushions, cable routing, and a flip-up visor.
Asus’ Windows Mixed Reality headset looks like the most unique out of all the devices announced so far. Asus has added a polygonal 3D cover panel to the front, alongside six degrees of freedom tracking. Microsoft doesn’t mention whether Asus’ headset  be available later this year, so it’s possible it might not arrive until 2018.
Lenovo is  creating its own Mixed Reality headset that Microsoft describes as “incredibly affordable” without providing exact pricing. Lenovo’s headset includes built-in sensors for inside-out tracking, and a rather basic design. Lenovo’s headset   debut later this year, alongside others from Acer, HP, and Dell.
If you went to bed early last night, then I’m going to need you to sit down. I’ve got something to tell you. The world you wake up to is very different to the one you left. It’s a world of confusion, of uncertainty. It’s a world where words are lost and alternative truths and fake news collide.
It is, in short, the world of covfefe.
We first discovered covfefe late last night, at around midnight eastern time, when Donald Trump tweeted a reference to its arrival out of the blue.
The president’s cryptic missive remained online for several hours, before getting pulled around 6AM ET this morning. Trump’s lack of punctuation suggested that he had been whisked away before he could complete his dire warning, but terrifyingly, we still don’t know what covfefe is. Academics, scientists, politicians — none had predicted its coming, and none had warned us of what it might bring, but one thing was clear from the tone of tweet. Covfefe was bad.
With the White House’s best and brightest out of action (perhaps incapacitated as part of covfefe’s first offensive), it fell to us to make sense of the situation. Specifically, to people on Twitter, who jumped on the president’s garbled statement with gusto.
The initial wave of Twitter replies were frenzied, perhaps inspired by the very real concern that negative covfefe had impacted the United States’ constitutional democracy. Others adapted to our new future quickly, working to keep their head down and appease covfefe.
My dad just bought the CA license plate "COVFEFE." #covfefe pic.twitter.com/WT5bXDTRN3
life covfefes at you fast
This is #covfefe translated from Russian. pic.twitter.com/1Im7ZzLO0Y
But that panic was replaced by a resigned cynicism once it became clear that politics would continue as before, with or without the shadow of covfefe hanging over the nation.
Tomorrow Sean Spicer: "Good morning. Covfefe for being here today."
I'm so sorryhttps://t.co/7GvfnDYCqL pic.twitter.com/Myd6FM0nN4
Pope: What do you give him to eat?Melania: #Covfefe pic.twitter.com/R9gpJmsgl2
Trump’s old tweets keep coming back to haunt him pic.twitter.com/KFtQPKuZWT
Ooo la la, we get it, you were in Europe https://t.co/eGhkpGr97q
Hours later, we were finally able to laugh at covfefe, demonstrating once again the strength and resilience of the human spirit. Impressively speedy Photoshops — like this repurposed Contra title screen (complete with Trump and Bannon hair-a-likes) — started to populate Twitter.
pic.twitter.com/GOEBwUD4Em
literally every covfefe joke is funny we are reaching the singularity and it feels amazing
pic.twitter.com/FpE2Cnp8uk
Moderator: Your word is #covfefeArvind: Use it in sentenceModerator: Despite the constant negative press covfefeArvind: c-o-v-f-e-f-e pic.twitter.com/NNpAdoKG15
As for what covfefe actually is, we still don’t know. Some may say it’s a typo of “coverage,” and that Donald Trump was railing against his portrayal in the media again. But the sensible among you would reject that hypothesis, knowing that there would be no way that the president would be sitting up in his ludicrously opulent mansion, restless at midnight, so steamed about his popularity that he would pull out his phone and throw out a half-considered complaint tweet to his millions of followers.
And then what, you’re telling me the leader of the free world threw his phone across the room like a moody child, drew in a big sigh, and settled in for a night of dreaming about golf, oblivious to the furor his misspelled tweet caused across the world?
I don’t buy it.
Update May 31st, 6:15AM ET: The original tweet has been pulled, and followed with this surprisingly playful response:
Who can figure out the true meaning of "covfefe" ???  Enjoy!
Microsoft revealed earlier this month that HP is planning to build a Cortana-powered speaker. At Computex today, the software giant demonstrated what it described as HP’s “digital assistant.” It’s a small puck-like speaker that acts as a standalone container for the Cortana software built of Windows 10 PC. HP hasn’t provided actual hardware at Computex, but Microsoft demonstrated a “visual representation” of the device.
Luckily, after some initial confusion, Microsoft has confirmed that the speaker  operate as a standalone Cortana device, like Harman Kardon’s Invoke. Although HP appears to have created the hardware device as a companion to its range of Windows 10 PCs, it  still function as a full Cortana speaker.
“The new HP digital assistant featuring Cortana is a standalone personal assistant device that does not need to connect to a Windows 10 PC to provide a complete intelligent speaker experience. We’re excited about our partnership with HP and have nothing else to share at this time,” a Microsoft spokesperson said in a statement given to The Verge.
Microsoft only briefly showed the device on stage, but there’s no release date or pricing for HP’s digital assistant hardware quite yet.
Update 5:17PM ET, 5/31: Microsoft clarified that HP’s Cortana speaker does not have to connect to a Windows 10 PC to function. It can operate as a standalone device.
Microsoft is revealing its partners for Windows 10 ARM-powered PCs at Computex today. Asus, HP, and Lenovo  be the first PC makers to develop what are described as “mobile PCs” powered by Qualcomm’s latest Snapdragon 835 processor. Microsoft first revealed its plans to bring Windows desktop apps to mobile ARM processors last year, with laptops as the first devices in the market with a version of Windows 10 that supports ARM.
Microsoft has only managed to convince three PC makers to build these new laptops with Qualcomm’s ARM processors. Unless the software giant signs on more by the end of the year, then that’s slightly less than the number of PC makers that helped launch Windows RT nearly five years ago. The first wave of Windows RT devices included devices from Asus, Dell, Lenovo, Samsung, and Microsoft itself with the Surface RT.
Qualcomm and Microsoft still aren’t revealing exactly when these new devices from Asus, HP, and Lenovo  arrive. Qualcomm CEO Steve Mollenkopf previously revealed ARM-powered Windows 10 PCs won’t launch until Q4 this year. Both Microsoft and Qualcomm are marketing these Windows 10 PCs as having better battery life, LTE connectivity, and support for all Windows applications.
Alongside the ARM-powered PCs, Microsoft   support LTE on other Windows 10 devices. HP, Asus, VAIO, Dell, Xiaomi, Lenovo, and Huawei  all create Windows 10 devices that support LTE. Microsoft is  working with a range of operators to support eSIM, including AT&T, T-Mobile, Vodafone, EE, Three, and BT.
Logitech’s Ultimate Ears is refreshing two of its old-but-still-popular Bluetooth speakers, the Boom 2 and MegaBoom, with fresh colors and patterns. The limited edition designs  be available starting in June. It isn’t clear how long they’ll stay in stock or when UE  retire them. You can see all the designs above, but you’ll note that the zebra and black and white “Cityscape” are definitely the most bold. The midnight garden pictured below is pretty intense, too.
I think I like the Lilac color palette best, only because it has some flair without being too much. It would look good on a shelf or in a park because pastels are great. Obviously.
Ultimate Ears says the Boom 2  cost $199.99 while the MegaBoom  sell for $299.99. Color and pattern availability varies by country.
You’d be forgiven for thinking that Nest, the company that so wonderfully disrupted the home thermostat market back in 2011, has been in a moribund state the past couple of years. Its mobile apps haven’t changed, its product lineup has stagnated, and its most notable news of 2016 was the exit of co-founder and CEO Tony Fadell. But today the Alphabet-owned company is making a splashy return to prominence with a new "intelligent" indoor camera called the Nest Cam IQ. Bearing a similar shape and styling to Nest’s signature thermostat, the Cam IQ costs $299 (or $498 for a pair) and  begin shipping by the end of June.
I got to see it behind closed doors during this month’s Google I/O conference, where Nest’s director of product marketing Maxime Veron walked me through the new camera’s capabilities and hinted at a busy summer ahead for the company. The aim with the Cam IQ, Veron says, is nothing short of being the "best in class security camera." That starts with a focus on video quality, which is well supported with a 4K HDR image sensor, powered by a hexa-core Qualcomm CPU. The video it outputs  still be limited to 1080p, mind you, but the expanded resolution  help with zooming in on particular areas without a loss in fidelity. There’s  a night vision mode provided by two infrared LEDs, which Veron proudly notes operate at a 940nm wavelength, making them almost invisible to the human eye.
Nest has  built in a powerful speaker, a three-microphone array with noise and echo suppression, and an impressively flexible and strong pivot stand, but the hardware is really not the thing this company’s excited about. Matt Rogers, Nest’s other co-founder, is quoted in today’s press release: "When designing Nest Cam IQ, we focused on what we’ve learned from our customers, which is that people don’t want more information, they want insights." Nest’s Cam IQ sales pitch is more about the IQ than the cam, which at the most superficial level  be manifested by its future integration with both Google Home and Amazon Alexa (though, no, it can’t function as a standalone Google Home or Amazon Echo speaker).
Using some deep-learning tech from Google, the Cam IQ can accurately detect what’s moving within its field of vision — whether it’s just your pet, for instance, or a shadow cast by the changing light. If it’s something more sinister, like a person, the camera can then automatically zoom in and track that person as they move around the room. Should you opt to subscribe to the Nest Aware service ($10 per month or $100 per year), the Cam IQ   offer a facial recognition facility that  sort between known friends or family members and any strangers, and alert you accordingly. Additionally, making use of those extra mics, Nest Aware can now  pick up audio cues for alarm, whether it be a dog barking, humans talking, or a window being smashed.
The video Nest showed me from the Cam IQ was indeed crisp and sharp and it provided much better definition of a fake burglar’s bearded face than the footage captured by an anonymous leading competitor. That’s a stage-managed demo designed to emphasize Nest’s advantage, to be sure, but I was still left with a very positive impression of the image quality obtained from what’s typically been a quite drab and unexciting category of hardware. I half-think some people could use this camera as a fallback vlogging tool. And let’s not forget about the hardware quality of this thing: it’s beautifully built, the stand articulates in every direction with a smooth, perfectly measured resistance, and there’s a USB-C power port on the back, Bluetooth LE within, and a standard tripod mount at the bottom.
With end-to-end encryption and person alerts that send you automatically zoomed in and cropped portraits of anyone detected, the Cam IQ promises to provide the security and insight that Rogers talks about. I was disappointed to find very little in the way of synergy between Nest’s prior home security cams and this one — they are, essentially, discrete products that don’t relate to one another — but Veron tells me Nest’s relative silence in recent times is about to be a thing of the past. "I am very excited about the next six months," he says with a grin, "we’ll talk again soon and you’ll understand why." If reports from earlier this month are to be believed, the next item on Nest’s agenda is likely to be a cheaper thermostat.
The Nest Cam IQ is available to preorder now in the United States, and  soon  be up for preorder in France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Ireland for €349, as well as the UK for £299 (that price is not a typo, feel free to blame Brexit). Germany, Austria, Italy, and Spain  join the preoder ranks on June 13th, and the first Cam IQs should begin shipping by the end of the month.
Immediately after Essential CEO Andy Rubin finished up his interview with Walt Mossberg at the Code Conference, I headed to the hotel to track the phone down and see it for myself. The units on hand here are prototypes, early enough that they have their individual identification numbers etched directly on to the ceramic back in giant font. So while I can’t really say a ton about performance or the software (beyond that it’s plain Android with Google apps), I do have some thoughts on the hardware.
It is, in short, not what you might expect given the recent trend in Android phones. It’s unapologetically wide and almost blocky compared to the curved Galaxy S8 and the skinny-tall LG G6. That’s not to say it’s phablet-sized, though: the bezels are so small on the 5.7-inch screen, it doesn’t feel as massive as it could.
But Essential isn’t trying to compete directly with Samsung by creating some kind of liquid curvature on the edges of the screen. It’s a squarish phone, and that’s what it’s intended to be. The titanium rail around the phone is squared off at 90 degrees with just enough of a curved edge to keep it from biting your hand. It feels substantial without being too massive.
The back is a glossy ceramic and it feels like glass, honestly, but presumably it’s much more damage resistant. The fingerprint sensor is blessedly simple to reach compared to Samsung’s Galaxy S8, and it’s big enough that it should be an easy target.
True to Rubin’s promise, the only ports you’ll find are a USB-C port on the bottom, flanked by a single speaker grille and the microSD nano-SIM tray. Actually, that’s not entirely fair: there is one more port, namely the wireless one on the back. It works with two pogo pins that are designed simply to transfer power. To get accessories to stick you use a magnet, and to transfer data the phone utilizes wireless USB.
There are two cameras on the back, each 13 megapixels. Since this is such an early unit (and since it was far away from the hotel), I didn’t get a chance to test them. But we know that one is a regular color sensor and the other is monochrome, which allows it to take in more light and data to improve the regular color image. The two-tone flash is there, too, and all three are thankfully flush with the device.
But I know why you’re here. You’re here to read about the crazy screen that wraps around the front-facing camera. Here it is, up close:
I’ll say this about it: it’s super weird at first to have a camera sitting in the middle of the top of the screen, where you’d expect it to cover up stuff you’d need. But Android almost never puts anything in that space — it’s empty status bar up there. And Rubin said onstage that it won’t cut into movies either. In the few minutes I played around with the Essential phone, my eyes kept getting drawn to that gap... until they didn’t. I am guessing that people who see the phone  find it strange, but people who use the phone won’t mind it at all.
I can’t promise you you’ll like the Essential Phone’s hardware, but I can say this: it’s managed to have its own unique design identity even though it’s hitting on the same bezel-less, curved-screen design trends we’ve seen on other phones. It feels satisfyingly dense, which is hopefully a sign that the battery inside it is capacious enough to last through a full day.
We’ll have much more to say about the Essential Phone, the ambitious / Quixotic plan to create an ecosystem of wireless modules, and all the rest. We’ll be watching carefully to see if Rubin’s plan to keep carrier bloatware off the phone really comes to pass, too.
The good news is that we won’t have to wait especially long to find out the answers to some of those questions. Rubin implied onstage tonight that he hoped to ship the phone within the next 30 days.
Playground CEO Andy Rubin, whose new company Essential unveiled a new premium Android smartphone and Amazon Echo competitor today, says his company’s Ambient OS smart home platform  be open source. That means that Rubin, who rose to fame in the tech industry for co-founding Android, essentially wants to apply the same open-source philosophy that made Android the most dominant mobile operating system to the smart home.
Given how disparate the smart home landscape is right now, with myriad interoperability standards and wireless platforms trying to marry various devices together, Essential’s Ambient OS does have a massive opportunity here. However, the decision could  mean that the platform ends up as fragmented and splintered as Android is at the moment, leading some consumers to miss out on vital upgrades and advances.
Walt Mossberg pointed this out to Rubin onstage at Code Conference, noting that Google’s OS has forked into wildly divergent versions around the world, but Rubin countered, saying that variation was actually Android’s strength. “Nobody gets 100 percent upgrades, it’s impossible,” Rubin said, before suggesting that Apple’s purported 80 percent upgrade rate was actually closer to “60 to 70.”
Rubin did agree that Android’s upgrade rate was much lower, but said that his new venture’s Ambient OS had “a solution for that.” He stopped short of describing what that solution was, however, noting only that it was “more of a managed service on the back-end.” How exactly Ambient OS  stay open source while  keeping users up to date remains to be seen.
Playground and Essential CEO Andy Rubin announced this evening that his new company’s premium Android smartphone, the Essential Phone,  ship within the next 30 days. Rubin made the announcement onstage at Recode’s Code Conference in a conversation with Walt Mossberg, who inquired about Essential’s timeline for getting the device to consumers.
The company announced its new phone, alongside a smart home platform called Ambient OS and a new Amazon Echo competitor called Essential Home, earlier today with a splashy website launch and blog post. Essential  opened up a waiting list at the time for anyone to pick out a phone in white or black for $699 with the option of an additional 360-degree camera attachment for $50.
Even if you did register to purchase the device, you didn’t get any info on when it would actually ship. (Essential doesn’t take your credit card information just yet.) Now, however, we know that Rubin is moving about as fast from launch to ship date as the biggest smartphone players. Good news for those who want to know whether the device lives up to the hype.
Andy Rubin is currently onstage at the Code Conference presenting the new Android-powered Essential Phone and his vision for the Ambient OS and Essential Home device. Pressed by Walt Mossberg as to why he’s bringing out yet another Android phone, Rubin revealed that Essential Home and Ambient OS  have a new smart assistant, and that assistant   run on the Essential Phone.
So that’s a new rival for Google Assistant, Siri, Alexa, and Cortana, combined with the new Essential Home device and Ambient OS which Rubin says is designed to integrate with every other smart device in your home. Rubin  says he’s ing to support all those other assistants, including Siri — which Apple probably isn’t crazy about.
Rubin is still onstage at Code, and you can read our live blog right here.
A business school in Paris  soon begin using artificial intelligence and facial analysis to determine whether students are paying attention in class. The software, called Nestor,  be used two online classes at the ESG business school beginning in September. LCA Learning, the company that created Nestor, presented the technology at an event at the United Nations in New York last week.
The idea, according to LCA founder Marcel Saucet, is to use the data that Nestor collects to improve the performance of both students and professors. The software uses students’ webcams to analyze eye movements and facial expressions and determine whether students are paying attention to a video lecture. It then formulates quizzes based on the content covered during moments of inattentiveness. Professors would  be able to identify moments when students’ attention waned, which could help to improve their teaching, Saucet says.
At first, the technology  only be used for students who watch lectures remotely, though Saucet hopes to eventually launch an in-class version that would send real-time notifications to students whenever they’re not paying attention. Speaking to journalists during a demonstration at ESG’s Paris campus last month, Saucet said the technology could vastly improve the performance of students who take massive open online courses, or MOOCs.
“The problem with MOOCs is that they don’t work,” Saucet said. “It’s been 10 years that we’ve been trying e-learning, and in the US it’s been 25 years. And it doesn’t work.”
A press release from the UN’s World Council of Peoples, which hosted last week’s event, described the launch of Nestor as the “first AI led class,” though that’s not entirely accurate. The software is not capable of actually teaching a course, and it’s not the first time that schools have experimented with similar technologies. The IE Business School in Madrid recently created a WOW Room (the acronym stands for “Window on the World”), where professors stand before a wall of screens and lecture students who tune in from afar. Like Nestor, the system uses “emotion recognition systems” to measure students’ attention.
Advocates for AI in education say the technology could be used as a digital tutor that would adapt to a student’s individual needs, and help foster more effective studying habits. Such software could  help teachers by providing quantitative feedback on the effectiveness of their teaching, advocates say. Some researchers have even raised the prospect of AI acting as a “lifelong learning companion” that would accompany students for years.
But AI programs rely on massive troves of personal data, and there are concerns over how such data would be treated. A personalized learning program launched in New York by InBloom, a data analytics company, collapsed in 2014 amid growing concerns over how data on students would be used and protected from hackers.
Saucet says Nestor won’t store any of the video footage it captures and that his company has no plans to sell any other data the software collects. (His company sells its software to schools.) The data would  be encrypted and anonymized, he says. In addition to facial recognition and analysis, the software can integrate with students’ calendars to suggest possible study times, and track their online behavior to pick up on patterns. If a student typically spends their weeknights watching YouTube videos, for example, Nestor could suggest that they instead spend that time studying. Saucet acknowledges, however, that it  ultimately be up to each school to decide how to treat and store such data.
Rose Luckin, a professor at the University College London Knowledge Lab, says AI could unlock the “black box of learning” by providing information on how and when learning happens. But she cautions against adopting new technologies that, while alluring, may not actually respond to critical needs.
“I think it can have a huge impact on education,” Luckin says. “But I think the problem at the moment is that what’s happening is being led by the technology, rather than by the learning science, and that's problematic.”
Luckin says a program like Nestor could be useful for students who take classes remotely, since “there isn’t a human there watching them,” and she says substantial research has focused on determining emotions based on facial analysis. (Several companies have begun using similar technology for advertising.) But she says she’s unaware of any large scale study on the educational effectiveness of such programs, and she questions the value in quizzing students on content that they weren’t paying attention to.
“A much more pedagogically sound approach would be to show the student when they are focused, and how that relates to their performance,” Luckin says. “So that you're offering information back to the student that helps them to structure their work time more effectively and helps them to become a more effective learner.”
And while some are concerned that AI may one day replace teachers, Luckin sees the technology more as an assistant, rather than a replacement. Saucet agrees.
“Human contact is not going to go away,” he says. “There  always be professors.”

The Nintendo Switch just got a significant third-party boost: Capcom has announced that it’ll be bringing Monster Hunter XX to the new system. Monster Hunter isn’t the most popular series in the West, but it’s been huge in Japan since the days of the PSP, and it was seen as a major coup for Nintendo when the games eschewed Sony’s PS Vita for the 3DS.
Monster Hunter XX — pronounced “double cross” — is the latest entry in the action RPG series; an expanded version of Monster Hunter X, which was released in the US in 2015 as Monster Hunter Generations. XX came out in Japan in March, and hasn’t yet been announced for the West.
速報です！『モンスターハンターダブルクロス Nintendo Switch Ver.』発売決定！モンハンシリーズ最大級の狩りごたえがNintendo Switchで楽しむことができますよ～！https://t.co/CXQuLkXAKo #MHXX #nintendoswitch pic.twitter.com/j2pdsvmOtj
On paper, the Switch is the perfect platform for Monster Hunter. It could let you play local co-op multiplayer on the go, the main reason the series took off in Japan in the first place, while  allowing for big-screen online play at home. It should  be the best-looking and best-controlling portable version of the game yet, given the Switch’s power and actual analog sticks.
That said, Capcom has revealed nothing about Monster Hunter XX: Nintendo Switch Ver. beyond the fact that it  exist at some point. There’ll be a Monster Hunter event in Sapporo, Japan this Saturday, so we should know more by the weekend.
Overwatch has been a massively popular game since it launched a year ago. That’s partly because it’s a superbly designed, tightly polished team-based shooter, but  for the incredibly diverse cast of characters that have spawned a huge culture of art, comics, fan-fiction, cosplay, ship wars, and more. Today, Tumblr’s Fandometrics blog quantified just how big the community is that has sprung up around Overwatch. And, unsurprisingly, it’s really big.
How big? According to Amanda Brennan, who runs Fandometrics, in the last 358 days, the #overwatch hashtag on Tumblr has seen “nearly 150 million engagements,” making it the second most used tag on the site. Overwatch on Tumblr, by numbers alone, is more popular than any TV series, movie, actor, character, or even far more generic tags, like #gif or #art.
Overwatch has more or less held the most popular video game rank on the site by Fandometrics’ measure for the last year, with the exception of a few weeks in summer 2016 when it was briefly toppled by Pokémon Go.
But the huge numbers of people engaging with Overwatch content speaks to the incredible work in franchise development from Blizzard. Overwatch doesn’t even have a traditional story mode or campaign to tell its characters’ stories. But based on the franchise’s supplemental material (comics, video shorts, and in-game clues), fans have embraced the heroes of Overwatch.
Part of that is due to the balance Blizzard has struck here, giving players a cast of fully fleshed-out characters to play with, but leaving things vague enough that there’s room for fans to tell their own stories.
At any rate, with the steady drip of new content that Blizzard has been doling out for Overwatch, it’s likely that the community  still continue going strong for years to come.
Earlier this month, reports surfaced that hackers stole Disney’s upcoming film Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales, threatening to release the film online if a demand for ransom wasn’t met. Speaking to Yahoo Finance, Disney CEO Bob Iger said that the company had not been hacked, and that the threat was a fake.
“To our knowledge we were not hacked,” he said when asked about the role of technology at Disney. “We had a threat of a hack of a movie being stolen. We decided to take it seriously but not react in the manner in which the person who was threatening us had required.”
Iger described cybersecurity as a “front burner issue” for the company, and that while Disney took the threat of a stolen movie seriously, it declined to pay the ransom that was demanded. At the time, an unknown party demanded “an enormous amount of money,” to be paid in Bitcoin, with the threat that the film would be released online much like Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black was back in April.

Amazon has opened two drive-up grocery stores to the public after testing the locations first with its own employees. Both are in the Seattle area, and allow Amazon Prime subscribers to place an online order and choose a two-hour pickup window for when they’d like to drive over and retrieve it.
Despite the stores being called “AmazonFresh Pickup,” a membership to the company’s home delivery grocery service isn’t required. But if you do pay for AmazonFresh (an extra $14.99 per month on top of Prime’s usual cost), your groceries  be ready within 15 minutes. Regular Prime customers have to wait at least two hours before the earliest pickup window becomes available.
AmazonFresh Pickup isn’t quite as cutting edge as the cashier-less grocery store that Amazon is still privately testing —  in Seattle. That futuristic concept has apparently run into numerous technical problems and breakdowns during its trial run and a public opening has been delayed as a result.
The grocery drive-ups are a little more straightforward and could help Amazon as it tries to better position itself against US grocery giants like Walmart, which has recently been regaining share from other chains. According to The Seattle Times, the first time you visit one of the two AmazonFresh Pickup locations, a concierge  enter your name and vehicle’s license plate number into Amazon’s systems. That way, during subsequent visits a license plate reader  automatically identify you and signal to employees that they should bring your order out to your car. The Times notes that this license plate scanning can be disabled from Amazon’s website.
Bear is a note-taking app from Italian design firm Shiny Frog that’s seen a recent spate of popularity as a replacement for apps like the bloated Evernote, primarily due to its simple design and quick speed.
And Shiny Frog has been good about keeping Bear up to date, with today’s 1.2 update (as noted by MacStories) adding some new features in the form of sketching, custom app icons for iOS, and support for Apple’s VoiceOver accessibility feature. The sketching feature is the most notable, adding a simple digital drawing board for the iOS version to add doodles and diagrams to notes. (Drawings can only be created and edited on the iOS version, not the Mac, however, and it doesn’t support the Apple Pencil’s more advanced features.)
This update is on the heels of version 1.1 released in March, which was a more substantial update, adding things like Touch Bar support, merging multiple notes, and more features for tags.
It’s nice to see the Shiny Frog team working to keep Bear updated, especially as the app runs on a subscription model for advanced features — keeping subscribers happy tends to be a good way to keep them as subscribers.
Still, there is a cautionary lesson to be aware of here in Evernote — a large part of Bear’s appeal is in its more minimal design, and the more features it adds, the closer it could resemble the bloated apps it’s trying to replace. Thankfully, it looks like we’re not there yet.
Man, Mark Zuckerberg is having a hell of a day. Earlier this morning, just before he was scheduled to deliver Harvard University’s commencement speech, his alma mater’s student newspaper website was hacked to elaborately troll the Facebook CEO. And while that got fixed by the time Zuck walked on stage, he’s now facing yet another technical difficulty: utter gibberish for captions.
Of course Zuck’s speech was going to be live streamed on his own platform, but wow, those of us watching from an office setting are getting a heck of a treat.
Facebook’s auto-caption function is… not great pic.twitter.com/U23TkkCuYG
Maybe a one-off goof? Nay.
I, too, long for a sense of purposos.
Keep rauling, rauling, rauling.
Wee!
You get the point. We’ve reached out to Facebook and a representative told us that it was Harvard University’s team that did the captioning, so you can thank / blame whatever machine or human that transcribed the speech.
And while you’re at it, you’ll definitely want to listen to the speech if you can, where Zuckerberg talks about finding a place in the working world in the face of automation, generating societal progress, creating opportunities for those less fortunate, and more.
Update May 25th 4:51PM ET: We updated to post to include Facebook’s confirmation to The Verge that it was Harvard, not Facebook, that was responsible for the typos on Zuckerberg’s speech captions.
HBO just renewed Silicon Valley for a fifth season, but one character won’t be returning. T.J. Miller, who plays Erlich Bachman, is leaving the series, according to The Hollywood Reporter. In a statement to THR, HBO called the decision a “mutual agreement.”
Neither HBO nor Miller has given any details about the reason for the departure, but as THR points out, Miller has recently started getting bigger roles that he wasn’t getting when the show started.
But as he’s gotten more famous, he’s  racked up a bit of a checkered history. When Miller hosted TechCrunch’s annual Crunchies in 2015, he made a cringeworthy racist joke and called one woman a bitch several times. Last year he was arrested for getting in a physical fight with an Uber driver.
Who knows how Mike Judge and Alec Berg  write Miller out of the script — maybe he’ll do peyote in the desert and never come back.
You , however, be able to see him in The Emoji Movie this summer.


Sony is moving fast to create buzz for its own Marvel Universe. Deadline reports that writer-director Gina Prince-Bythewood  direct Silver & Black, the studio’s upcoming film starring classic Spider-Man characters Silver Sable and Black Cat. The decision  make Prince-Bythewood the first woman of color to direct a superhero movie, so long as the move isn’t derailed between now and the film’s release in 2018.
Prince-Bythewood is known for her character-driven work on such films as Love & Basketball and Beyond the Lights, which she both wrote and directed. She’s  already familiar with on-screen superheroes, having directed the pilot for Marvel’s upcoming series Cloak & Dagger on Freeform. She’ll now be charged with rewriting the current Silver & Black script, originally penned by Thor: The Dark World writer Christopher Yost. Silver & Black is expected to hit theaters after Sony’s Venom movie, which just got Tom Hardy for the title role.
Today’s announcement is significant, since, save for Patty Jenkins with Wonder Woman and Ryan Coogler directing Black Panther, there’s a dearth of women and people of color directing studio superhero movies. However, while this is a milestone for Sony and studio-driven superhero fare, we’ve heard similar before. A Wrinkle in Time director Ava DuVernay was initially in talks to direct Marvel’s Black Panther before passing due to creative differences. And movies change direction all the time. At a time when studios like Warner Bros. lose directing talent over and over again for their cinematic universes, there’s plenty of reason to watch what becomes of this production closely.
Samsung Display is attending Display Week (a conference on display technology, hosted by the The Society for Information Display), and it’s got some wild new screen prototypes to show off.
First up, a 9.1-inch OLED display that can roll, bend, and even stretch when pushed on before snapping back to its original position. And unlike most other flexible screens out there, which tend to only be able to be bent in one direction, Samsung’s prototype can bend in both. There’s no plans on when, or even if, a screen like this could show up on an actual product, but it’s certainly impressive.
Next up is a 1.96-inch LCD with a 3840 x 2160 4K resolution, which could one day show up in a VR or AR headset for even clearer images, without the issue of visible pixels that can occur with today’s headsets. For comparison, each screen on an Oculus rift has  a 1080 × 1200, making Samsung’s display a marked improvement, assuming it ever makes it way to market (again, there are no commercial plans for the screen at this time.)
Lastly, Samsung showcased a 5.09-inch OLED screen that offers glasses-free 3D. Given that 3D displays have largely fizzled out in the past (even Nintendo is abandoning the concept with the New 2DS XL), it’s hard to be as excited about the idea, but maybe Samsung has figured out a way to make it work.
Twelve years after Mark Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard University, the Facebook CEO was set to give a commencement speech and receive an honorary degree today in Cambridge, MA. Leading up to the event, the CEO teased a lot of footage that highlight ties to his alma mater — from clips of the moment Zuckerberg read his college acceptance letter to a Facebook Live video of him touring his old dorm room, where he reportedly created the social network.
One hacker had a different idea of welcoming him back on campus, though. Just hours before Zuckerberg was scheduled to give his commencement speech, Harvard’s student newspaper The Harvard Crimson was apparently hacked to mock the Facebook CEO with a slew of fake headlines and awkwardly edited photos. “MARK ZOINKERBURG AT IT AGAIN,” one headline reads. “OP-ED: How Come Everyone Talks About How I Stole Facebook But Nobody Talks About How I Murdered Eduardo Saverin,” says another. (Not to be missed from that story is the subheading, which adds “And fed his body to my children.”)
It’s an elaborate and, admittedly, kind of amusing display of mockery. Visiting The Crimson now returns the site back to its usual state, but the internet never forgets. You can check the Crimson bizarro world in its archived glory here.
“Earlier today, The Harvard Crimson’s website was altered by an unauthorized user,” Crimson president Derek Choi said in a statement to The Verge, claiming it was not an intentional troll from the team as a statement to Zuckerberg’s on campus presence. (Our senior editor Chris Plante notes that he’s pretty sure Choi meant to say it was altered by an unauthorized hero, but who are we to correct the kid?)
Choi adds that he regrets any inconvenience this caused readers, but honestly, it doesn’t seem like anyone here has been inconvenienced other than the Crimson team themselves. But between this and Harvard’s goof on Zuck’s Facebook Live streamed speech, it’s clear some Crimsonites have feels.
Earlier this week, Snapchat released an update that quietly changed the way profile pictures work in Snapchat — users with Bitmoji avatars are now forced to use them as the image in their Snapcodes, instead of the previous method that allowed users to have an actual picture inside the ghost-shaped frame.
It’s not a huge change on the surface, as Snapchat had previously allowed users to choose to set a Bitmoji as their profile if they wanted to, but the new change seems to automatically set it, removing your old image whether you wanted to or not. Users who haven’t created Bitmoji seem to be unaffected, and are able to continue to use the old profile pictures as usual.
A brief search of Twitter shows that users aren’t pleased with the change. There are numerous complaints about the Bitmoji Snapcodes, ranging from people who lost pictures, to confusion in telling friends apart due to the similar nature of the cartoonish Bitmoji, to the fact that it appears that there’s no way to go back to the old picture-based codes even if you unlink your Bitmoji from your account.
I do NOT want my bitmoji inside my snap code! Fuck you #Snapchat! How do I change it back to a picture of me?    pic.twitter.com/NFhzSvNrdm
Snapchat pushing Bitmoji makes sense, in a way — it bought the cartoon avatar company for over $100 million last year, so it’s logical that Snap would want to make the most of that investment by putting Bitmoji everywhere in the app. Still, given the backlash by the community, it  be interesting to see if Snapchat restores the traditional picture based Snapcodes in the future, especially as user growth continues to be a struggle for the social sharing app.
We’ve reached out to Snap for comment on the changes, and  update this post with any new developments.
Late last year, Kodak released its Ektra smartphone — a device with mediocre specs and a big ass camera bump — in the UK, and now it’s finally coming to the US. The Ektra has a vintage design and a pretty substantial 21MP camera sticking out of the back. Other than that we’re looking at midrange smartphone specs:
The Ektra isn’t actually built by Kodak, but by the UK firm Bullit which  builds rugged Cat phones. If you have an extra $400 laying around and wide pockets, you can pick up the Ektra from Kodak’s website today, as well as online retailers like Amazon and B&H.
Silicon Valley is currently airing its fourth season, but HBO announced today that it is renewing Mike Judge and Alec Berg’s tech comedy for a fifth season.
This season of Silicon Valley has seen Richard Hendriks walk away from Pied Piper’s video chat app for a plan to change the nature of the internet, with this season skewering everything from tech executive’s desire to live forever, the realities of artificial intelligence, to privacy policies.
When the show does return, it’ll do so without one of its main characters, T.J. Miller’s Erlich Bachman, according to Vulture. Bachman owns the tech incubator that the show’s characters use, and it’ll be interesting to see how they move on without him. HBO explained that the decision for Miller to depart the show was a mutual one.
The network  announced that it has renewed Veep for its seventh season. Both shows are set to return in 2018.
Updated to include information about T.J. Miller’s departure.
For the first time, scientists have discovered a fish capable of cloning itself. The trickster in question is a small Portuguese fish that managed to steal an egg to do the deed.
While studying the reproductive habits of the Squalius alburnoides, researchers found a single fish (out of 261) that is a perfect genetic copy of its father. S. alburnoides is itself a hybrid of two fish, one of which is now extinct. The results are described in a study published today in Royal Society Open Science.
This is an example of androgenesis, or males reproducing without females. Females reproducing without males, called parthenogenesis, is more common — just look at this terrifying sawfish that managed to do it. For a long time, we thought androgenesis was impossible. It turns out that there are some ants and clams that can do it, but this fish is the most complex animal yet, and the first with vertebrae.
Because the process is so rare, we’re still not really sure how androgenesis happens. It might go something like his: the male produces sperm with twice the amount of genetic content as usual. Then it steals an egg, and somehow eliminates the egg’s genes. Or maybe the sperm is normal, but the genetic material in the egg is missing from the beginning. Or maybe two sperms fertilized an egg with missing genes.
There’s a reason this type of reproduction is uncommon: when you clone yourself, you reduce genetic variation — and that’s risky. If all the animals in a species are genetically very similar, the entire species is vulnerable to being wiped out if something big changes in their environment.
“In a lot of these cases, these bizarre types of reproduction seem to have arisen by two closely related species hybridizing at some point in their evolutionary history and something going really, really wrong with reproduction,” University of Edinburgh evolutionary biologist Laura Ross told The Scientist.
So, maybe this is not the happiest evolutionary origin story, but it is pretty cool that there’s one more animal that can reproduce all on its own.
NASA’s Juno spacecraft has been orbiting Jupiter for nearly a year now — and the space probe is revealing the gas giant to be more complex and surprising than we ever thought.
Juno’s instruments show that massive cyclones dominate the planet’s poles, while a deep tropical band of ammonia circles its equator. Meanwhile, the planet’s magnetic field is turning out to be much stronger than expected and the gravity field is indicating that Jupiter’s interior core may not be super dense. All these findings, published in two new studies today in Science, as well as 44 in the journal Geophysical Research Letters,  eventually help planetary scientists piece together the structure of Jupiter. And that could tell us a lot about how the planet formed billions of years ago.
These new tantalizing clues about Jupiter were gathered by Juno during the its first couple of passes by the planet. Right now, Juno is in an extremely elliptical orbit, which brings the probe screeching by Jupiter’s surface for a few hours at a time during each trip around the planet. These passes, known as Perijove passes, bring Juno over the planet’s poles — closer than any previous vehicle has gone before. And it’s during these swings by Jupiter that Juno gathers the bulk of its data.
Currently Juno does one Perijove pass every 53 days, though the original plan was one pass every 14 days. (Engine problems messed up the plan, so Juno is going to remain in its much longer orbit for the rest of its lifetime.) That just means it’s going to take longer to get answers about Jupiter than the mission team wanted. And the researchers are hesitant to make conclusions about Jupiter’s origins until the probe has passed by the planet a few more times.
“Juno is a mapping mission; we’re going to go over the planet 32 different times and each time at different longitudes,” Scott Bolton, of the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio, Texas, and the principal investigator for NASA’s Juno mission, tells The Verge. “So we don’t want to make too many assumptions just yet. We need to finish that map.” However, Bolton is confident that the NASA spacecraft  be able to deliver some solid answers about Jupiter after a while. “Juno is the right tool to sort this out,” he says.
So here’s what Juno has found out so far about the largest planet in our Solar System:
During its first pass around Jupiter, Juno’s camera spotted immense storms and cyclones at the planet’s poles. The vehicle captured one giant storm right over the terminator — the moving line that separates day from night on a planet. That created shadows that allowed the mission team to calculate exactly where the storm sat, finding that it was actually sticking up out of the atmosphere. And this storm was massive, too, reaching 30 to 60 miles high with a diameter about half the width of Earth.
These cyclones make Jupiter’s poles a fairly unique place. Neither pole has the same number of storms or configurations, according to Bolton, and they look very different from the poles of Saturn. “When you get over the poles, it’s a very different looking planet,” he says. “I’m not sure you’d even recognize it as Jupiter if you didn’t know.”
Juno is specifically equipped with instruments that — for the first time — can peak underneath Jupiter’s cloud tops, to figure out the composition of the planet below. Measurements have revealed a super-deep band of ammonia around the planet’s equator — and it goes as deep into the planet as the spacecraft can see.
Bolton compares the ammonia band to the tropical band around Earth — the region around the equator that has its own distinct climate. “Earth’s band is driven by the fact that there’s a surface and ocean underneath, but Jupiter is all gas and yet we see the same kind of feature,” he says. And the ammonia isn’t just found at the equator either. Bolton says the concentration of ammonia is highly variable throughout Jupiter, making the planet’s composition incredibly diverse.
“The naive simple view of giant planets is that as soon as you scratched beneath the surface where the sunlight was no longer getting to, then everything would just be this boring well-mixed sphere of gas that all looked the same,” says Bolton. “And Jupiter is anything but that; it’s very complicated.”
A big goal of Juno has been to figure out if the planet has a compact core or not. So Juno has been mapping Jupiter’s gravity field to determine the distribution of materials inside the planet. And those measurements seem to indicate that Jupiter doesn’t have a smaller compact core like people expected, but instead the core is larger and more spread out. There’s  some indication that various regions of the core may be moving in different directions. “It may not be moving around like it’s one solid body,” says Bolton.
Juno is  measuring Jupiter’s magnetic field, a charged current that surrounds the planet and deflects or captures particles coming from the Sun. In June, before Juno inserted itself into orbit, the spacecraft crossed through the boundary of the magnetic field — known as the bow shock. It was the only time that Juno ever encountered the bow shock, and that seems to suggest that the magnetic field was expanding when Juno encountered it.
Now that the spacecraft has been hanging out at Jupiter, it’s been taking measurements of the field from within. And one thing that Juno has noticed is that the closer it gets to Jupiter, the more variation it finds in the strength of the magnetic field. “When we get really close to the planet, we’re getting much higher highs and much lower lows than we would have anticipated based on our current knowledge,” Jack Connerney, an astrophysicist at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center and lead author on one of the Science papers, tells The Verge. And that provides some clues as to where inside the planet the magnetic field is being generated.
Earth’s magnetic field is thought to stem from the core. On our planet, hot liquid iron is constantly moving in the core, and this process — known as a dynamo — generates Earth’s massive magnetic field. Connerney says the closer you get to the dynamo’s movement, the more variation in the magnetic field you can see. From the surface of Earth, you don’t see much variation, though, because the dynamo is all the way down in the center of the planet. But since there seems to be a lot of variation near the surface of Jupiter, perhaps the planet’s isn’t super deep within the planet’s core. “The indication might be the dynamo core’s surface is much closer to the top than we had anticipated,” says Connerney.
During Juno’s trips over the poles, the spacecraft passes through one of the most stunning phenomena on Jupiter — its aurorae. The planet’s vivid aurorae are created when high-energy particles trapped in the magnetic field filter down to the poles and smash into the gas there.
Or at least that’s what everyone thought was happening. Connerney says Juno’s measurements indicate something else: it seems that the aurorae may be caused by high-energy electrons being sucked up out of the atmosphere. “What we’re find out is, guess what? Those electrons aren’t coming down; they’re going up,” says Connerney. “So it turned out our thinking was 180 degrees wrong, because we were never there to measure this stuff.”
Facebook announced today that it’s making its Instant Articles platform compatible with competing web publishing standards like Google AMP and Apple News. That way, publishers can build first in Instant Articles and then push near-identical versions of their content to other platforms.
This might help cut down on news organizations’ distribution costs, but it’s  a big deal for the tech industry’s platform wars. Because this announcement doubles as a tacit admission from Facebook that its Instant Articles format is not as popular as other forms of platform publishing, as well as a move to undermine the success of Google AMP and Apple News by incentivizing publishers to create one version of a thing and push it out everywhere. If Facebook can ensure that everyone publishes equally to all platforms, it won’t have to worry about Google or Apple gaining an edge.
“The SDK already enables developers to easily integrate publishing Instant Articles into their content management systems. By supporting a gateway to generate content across platforms, we’re  making it easy for publishers to apply some of the custom styling templates in AMP and Apple News that they have created in the Instant Articles Style Editor,” explains Facebook’s Piyush Mangalick, a partner engineering director, in a blog post. “For example the custom formats, like fonts, colors and captions, that publishers have designed in the Style Editor,  be closely mirrored in the other formats.”
In other words: if you build once on Instant Articles, you won’t have to worry about stylizing the article for AMP or Apple News. Facebook’s SDK  take care of all the heavy lifting. “This new flexibility with Instant Articles is part of our commitment to open standards of collaboration with the community,” writes Mangalick. “Our goal is to give publishers control over extending and modifying the Instant Articles building blocks to be the best storytellers on every platform.”
Of course, that’s not the only goal Facebook has. Like so many aspects of the media business over the last three decades, the future of web publishing is currently being decided not by journalism organizations, but by the platform-owning tech companies that collect and distribute the world’s information. More recently, this has manifested itself in a standards battle currently being waged by Facebook, Google, and Apple, all of which own a proprietary format that transforms articles into clean, readable formats on mobile.
Related
Facebook’s Instant Articles, launched back in 2015, has struggled to grow, while Google’s AMP format has engulfed huge swaths of the mobile web. Apple News, meanwhile, takes advantage of its high-priority placement on iOS devices as a native app to push the iPhone maker’s own walled-garden approach to news delivery. For Facebook, this is mostly an issue of the ever-constant identity crisis pulling it between its dominant social network and platform roots and the ways in which it continues to resemble a modern media empire. Some publishers have fled Instant Articles mostly because of Facebook’s own inability to help those organizations grow audiences and make money, both goals that happen to be at ends with Facebook’s constant News Feed tweaking and prioritization of video over text.
While the ramifications for news organizations are monumental, this is  a ontological debate about the very nature and future of the web. Google, which makes a vast majority of its revenue through web advertising, wants people to continue using its search engine. So it’s continued making the Chrome and search experience more reader-friendly with AMP.  Facebook would very much like people to consider its app a modern-day gateway to the rest of the internet, a destination for consuming anything and everything you would otherwise have to seek out on the mobile web. And Apple doesn’t care about the future of the web so much as it’s interested in making the iOS the best way to do anything on a smartphone, news reading included. All of this means controlling the flow of content, a huge chunk of which is article links to news websites.
So the question now is whether Facebook’s changes  make publishers come back to its platform, even as it strikes deals with media companies to produce original video that it  likely prioritize over the Instant Article links of third-party news publishers. As it stands, Facebook’s only option now is to hope publishers are so wary of any one tech platform that they publish to all of them simultaneously. While that’s not necessarily great for building a healthy relationship with the journalism business, it does keep Instant Articles from completely ceding ground to competitors.
Andy Rubin is preparing to formally unveil the smartphone his new company, Essential, has been working on. Moments ago, Essential tweeted that “something big is coming” on May 30th, with Rubin himself adding that he and the team are “almost ready to share with you what we've been up to.” Rubin is scheduled to speak at Recode’s Code Conference on that date.
Two months ago, Rubin offered a teaser glimpse of the phone, which has extremely minimal bezels and a display with curved corners — similar to the Samsung Galaxy S8 and LG G6. Eric Schmidt later confirmed that the device runs Android software. Today’s tweet from Rubin, a co-founder of Android, was geotagged from Cupertino, California — the home of Apple — despite Essential’s offices being in Palo Alto, per the company’s Twitter bio.
Hi, welcome to our Twitter page. We're here to let you know something big is coming May 30th! Stay tuned...
In January, Bloomberg reported that the design of at least one device prototype from Essential featured metal sides and a ceramic back; the company was  said to be developing “a proprietary connector that serves double duty for charging the battery and expanding the phone's functionality over time.” Few companies aside from Motorola have stuck with the concept of a modular smartphone. Recently, Rubin has  tweeted other previews of what Essential is working on. The below image seems to show testing of a 360-degree camera.
Can anyone guess what my colleague Wei is working on?  First correct guess wins a signed version of the product when it's ready! pic.twitter.com/RjGLczdCgV
Essential just about confirmed a 360-degree camera for its coming smartphone in a later tweet on Thursday. When that image is manipulated, it reveals what looks very much like a lens.
Andy Rubin's Essential phone looks like it has some sort of rounded attachment for AR .. or a 360 camera? I lightened the image. pic.twitter.com/vWsr0lSqEG
Essential’s Twitter page doesn’t yet offer any other new details; its cover image reuses the same photo that Rubin has already shared. The profile picture confirms the company’s logo that The Verge previously discovered to be registered with the US Patent and Trademark Office, however. The @essential Twitter handle previously belonged to a fragrances business before being scooped up by Rubin and his colleagues.
Lyft is rolling out black car service, under the name Lyft Lux and Lux SUV, starting today in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, and San Jose. The service  directly compete with Uber Black, which offers riders the option of requesting a ride in a luxury, black vehicle with leather or leather-like seats. This could include a BMW 5 Series, a Cadillac Escalade, or a Lincoln Navigator, for example. The only differentiator between Lux and Lux SUV is that SUV vehicles can fit at least six passengers.
The company gave drivers a heads up on this service, and even listed the launch cities on its Help page, but didn’t actually begin rolling Lux out until today. Last year, it introduced Lyft Premier to compete with Uber Select. Both ride-sharing services offer pick-ups in luxury cars (that aren’t necessarily painted black) for a higher fee. Drivers who own these cars can drive both regular and luxury passengers.
With the launch of both of these higher-end services, it’s obvious Lyft is trying to match Uber. Right now, the main differentiator between the two companies, as far as the types of rides they offer, is UberWav for wheelchair-accessible vehicles and UberXL for more affordable SUVs. Lyft offers wheelchair-accessible vehicles but they often need to be booked 24 hours in advance.
Tons of electronics stores have shuttered over the past decade, but few are as tragic as RadioShack, which filed for bankruptcy in 2015, appeared to be rescued by Sprint in agreement to co-share the stores, then got kicked to the curb and had to file for a second bankruptcy this past March. The new agreement means hundreds of RadioShack shops  officially close down and be replaced by Sprint stores, fizzling out dreams of the Maker movement.
So while this is an end to another chapter of our American electronics retail culture, we do have to wonder: how are the folks at RadioShack doing? I mean, it seems like they were accepting their fate...
Opening a new business, need a new glass display case?? Well we got you! Everything is for sale... pic.twitter.com/LN6LwjTNdr
Racks on racks on racks....Everything is for sale at your local #radioshack!! Come down for our last days!! pic.twitter.com/pxihDctLK5
Double exclamation marks, eh? RadioShack, I’m pretty good at disguising sadness with perkiness, too, and I see right through you.
The sale on leftover stocks of electronics  appears to have come and gone, with only mostly store fixtures, ladders, and carpet tiles seemingly left on offer.
These metal literature racks for pegboards are a great way to organize reading material. Everything is on sale at your local #radioshack! pic.twitter.com/pBZR9Rwtki
Check out these neat little display organizers! Buy a few or make a bulk offer! Offers vary by location. https://t.co/WEnRMIYF77 pic.twitter.com/EEyPYUfO87
RadioShack did not answer on whether it had other kinds of useful tools left for sale.
@RadioShack Do you have any used toilet plungers?
Hey, we’re sad to see you go as a result of the new internet shopping era, too. But this seems like a public cry for attention. RadioShack, if you’re listening, we’ll miss you, we ! But do you really want your last moments to be remembered as the folks who thirstily promoted garbage cans to stay alive?
Everything is for #sale at #radioshack! Talk to your store manager for offers and pricing on our supplies! https://t.co/WEnRMIH3Ix pic.twitter.com/IR8kUn7Mi0
In a letter sent today, several people who had their personal information used to post fake anti-net neutrality comments asked the FCC to investigate.
“Whoever is behind this stole our names and addresses, publicly exposed our private information without our permission, and used our identities to file a political statement we did not sign onto,” the people write in the letter, which was sent to FCC chairman Ajit Pai by pro-net neutrality regulation group Fight For the Future and signed by 14 people who say their identities were used for comments. “Hundreds of thousands of other Americans may have been victimized too.”
The letter calls on the FCC to investigate the incident for violations of law, to remove the comments, and to publicly release any information it has on the comments.
“All proper authorities must be notified immediately and the FCC must disclose any and all information the agency has pertaining to the organization or person behind these fake comments,” the letter concludes.
Earlier this month, as John Oliver rallied viewers to send comments to the FCC opposing a proposed rollback on net neutrality rules, hundreds of thousands of identical anti-net neutrality comments appeared. The message supported the proposed rollback of Title II regulation, and included real names and addresses. When contacted, many people whose names were used said they had no idea where the comments came from.
The text of the comment came from a conservative group, which denied sending the comments. It’s still unclear who may have posted them.
Instagram has a minor update to its Direct messaging feature today, adding the ability to send links directly in the app — something that apparently was not possible before, which is a bit baffling to me. Instagram  is adding automatic links to phone numbers and addresses send through Direct, which is useful.
Additionally, the update adds support for both landscape and portrait pictures sent through Direct. So, instead of weirdly cropping your pictures, they’ll now show up properly in their intended dimensions.
The links should be available to both iOS and Android users today; the portrait / landscape support   be available today on iOS, with Android support for that feature “coming soon.”
For those of us who’ve wondered how The Pokémon Company International feels about the universally maligned creature Magikarp, we have our answer. The company released a new mobile game for iOS and Google Play called Magikarp Jump: a game where you can only raise and compete with what it calls “the weakest Pokémon ever.”
In Magikarp Jump, you fish out a fresh ‘karp and adopt it as your own tiny jumper. The goal is to feed and train it enough to make it strong enough to best other Magikarp in a flopping competition.
It’s straightforward, to say the least. Swipe your finger around Magikarp’s pond to help it find food. The more it eats, the faster it levels up. (Same!) You can  train Magikarp through various jump-related activities. These require points, but you can recharge them either by waiting, gaining more in-game, or using items you buy. Once you’ve trained your dead-eyed fish, you take it to compete in the aforementioned jumping matches, wherein you command it to jump once. And it does.
The game is far less complicated than Niantic’s Pokémon Go, an augmented reality game that became a worldwide phenomenon and helped to double Nintendo’s value in mid-2016; Magikarp Jump doesn’t require players to move any more than their thumbs, and it doesn’t need an internet connection. The game features cameos from other pokémon — there’s a Pikachu that likes to hang by my pond and cheer me on — but it places the focus front and center on training the best Magikarp you can. Once you’ve maxed its potential, it’s time to catch a new one and start again (albeit with a slightly stronger newbie).
Though it limits you to the series’s most “useless” pokémon, this little game nails what makes the franchise great. Pokémon is about forming a bond with your weird monsters and then claiming victory. Magikarp Jump, despite centering on a pokémon that most view as a punchline, does a great job in fostering a sense of affection for the fish you’re raising. The more I watch my Magikarp bash its face into a punching bag, the more I love that little idiot. It’s doing the best it can. And when it jumps its way to victory, I feel proud. Genuinely.


This is a safe space, okay? We’re going to talk about a $12,000 hourglass designed by Apple designer Marc Newson in this post, and I won’t judge you if you want it. But let me be straight up about my feelings: this thing is ridiculously expensive, and I don’t “get” it. I’m  a little lowbrow. As I mentioned, Newson created an Hourglass for Hodinkee that costs $12,000. Only 100 are being made. Each is custom created in a glass factory. The hourglass is filled with 1,249,996 “nanoballs” that are 0.66mm in diameter and made of solid stainless steel coated in copper. The hourglass times 10 minutes.
Hodinkee posted a long explainer on what goes into this timepiece to basically justify its cost. Apparently the hole that the nanoballs fall through has to be so precise that only a human eye can get the job done. A measurement device would harm the glass, according to Hodinkee. I’m not a glassmaker, so I have no idea if this is legitimate, but sure. As for the nanoballs, I’ll let Hodinkee tell you about them:
The combination of watching those first few nanoballs bounce around the bottom chamber, the flow begin to change surface patterns in the top chamber, and the unique sound of the nanoballs flying around, hitting the glass and one another as they settle at the bottom, is utterly mesmerizing.
Flying nanoballs, huh? You can hear them here:
Now, if you want to order one, and you aren’t one of the first six people to place your order, you’ll have to put down a nonrefundable $6,000 deposit and wait a few months before yours arrives. Four more  be available in June and then 10  be produced for each month after until 100 total are made. Is Newson’s name enough to make you drop $12,000? Probably not, but I  say that graduation season is upon us and nothing screams congratulations like an extremely expensive timepiece. And nothing is more calming than the sound of falling nanoballs, I’m sure.
Ancient farmers and hunter-gatherers living thousands of years ago in today’s Romania had sex, according to a new study. The finding adds to our understanding of how different groups of ancient humans interacted with each other — painting a more nuanced picture of how farming spread across Europe.
Researchers analyzed the ancient DNA of three individuals dated to over 8,000 years ago, as well as one individual dated to 5,000 years ago — all found in Romania. The DNA of the more recent specimen showed that farmers and hunter-gatherers in this area of Europe were intermixing with each other and having children. The study was published today in the journal Current Biology.
The advent of farming is one of the most revolutionary advances in human history. People began domesticating plants and animals, forever changing the world around them. Farming is believed to have started around 10,000 years ago in the Near East, an area roughly comprising today’s Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, and Turkey. From there, it spread across Europe — but when and how exactly people gave up hunting and gathering for farming has been at the center of long-standing debates.
Did farmers just spread across Europe, bringing the technology with them, and outcompete local hunter-gatherers? Or did hunter-gatherers get in contact with farmers, learn their technological advances, and switch to farming? Recent research shows that the answer is complicated, and how farming spread differs from place to place. Studies suggest that in Western and Central Europe, farmers from Anatolia (the Asian portion of Turkey) came in and replaced hunter-gatherer populations. But in the Baltic region, local hunter-gatherers seem to have just adopted farming, without being overtaken by farmers.
In the area comprising today’s Romania, however, the transition to farming seems to have been more nuanced. Archaeological evidence — such as artifacts, burial grounds, and diets — suggests that in this area, farmers and hunter-gatherers mixed, says Eppie Jones, a researcher from the University of Cambridge and co-author of today’s study. This is why the researchers were interested in analyzing the genetic data of the ancient people living in this area: they wanted to test whether this “cultural” exchange  resulted in people actually mixing with each other.
So the researchers took the bones of four individuals from Romania — three dated to over 8,000 years ago, and one dated to 5,300 years ago. They analyzed the petrous bones — the hard part of the skull behind the ear that “preserves DNA best,” says study co-author Michael Hofreiter, a professor of evolutionary adaptive genomics at the University of Potsdam in Germany. The genetic analysis showed that three individuals from over 8,000 years ago were all hunter-gatherers. (The researchers  analyzed the bones of two hunter-gatherers from Spain, dated to about 9,000 and 7,000 years ago, to have a better sampling of what hunter-gatherers across Europe looked like genetically.)
The individual dated to 5,300 years ago, however, turned up to be genetically about 60 percent hunter-gatherer and 40 percent Anatolian farmer. “It’s really mixed between the two populations,” Hofreiter says. That means that this person was the multigenerational child of hunter-gatherers and farmers mixing together. In short, in this area of Europe, hunter-gatherers and farmers weren’t just trading objects or swapping ideas, they were actually having sex.
“It’s the first time we can really show that hunter-gatherers and farmers really mixed,” Hofreiter says. “There was no positive evidence before.” The finding shows that, when it comes to the spread of farming across Europe, “actually the situation is very variable,” says study co-author Clive Bonsall, a professor of early prehistory at the University of Edinburgh.
A lot of questions remain unanswered. For example, does the fact that hunter-gatherers and farmers had sex mean they actually lived together? Was this mixing friendly, or aggressive? Was it constricted to this particular region, or part of a larger phenomenon? We can’t tell, says Jones.
To answer these questions — as well as why farming spread so differently in different parts of Europe — we need to analyze more specimens. But for now, today’s finding is already pretty neat: “I think it changes our understanding of the history of Europeans,” Jones says.
Praise for the works of Fumito Ueda — the iconic director behind games like Ico, Shadow of the Colossus, and The Last Guardian — tends to lean on the same handful of descriptors. Ueda’s games are solemn and sad, sweet and surreal. They’re among the few experiences in games that can “make you cry.” Ueda’s work is often described as frustrating, rigid, and technically flawed.
Rime, which comes out tomorrow from Spanish studio Tequila Works, feels like an attempt to create a game that captures all of the positive components of an Ueda game while stripping away their recurring negatives. Virtually everything about the game calls to mind the auteur’s work, whether it’s the quiet, helpless protagonist; the ancient, mysterious world; or the subtle, at times heart-scrunching, story that holds the project together. But Rime is  a much more polished experience than its obvious inspirations. There are no setbacks, like being stuck on an obtuse puzzle, or fighting against the controls to navigate a perilous series of jumps.
Rime is a near-perfect facsimile. And yet, for all its beauty and wonder and technical craft, Rime  struggles to be more than an homage.
The game opens with a young child washing up on the beach of a picturesque island. Crumbling, ancient buildings line the background, and tall beams of light across the land launch into the sky like heavenly skyscrapers. Rime is part of an increasing number of games that use the environment, rather than words or complex user-interfaces, to communicate the story and the mission; from the moment you set foot on the island, it’s the world around you that reveals where to go and what to do.
You have only a few skills at your disposal. The child protagonist can’t jump very high or carry anything other than a handful of small objects. Instead of an attack, you have the option to call out, which serves different functions, depending on the circumstances. But this small array of abilities are put to use in a large variety of ways. At the beginning, the puzzles are fairly simple. As I journeyed to the columns of light, I had to scramble up broken bits of architecture, and distract wild pigs with pieces of fruit. Later on I was able to activate magical objects by humming a tune.
As you open new areas of the island, things become more complex. You come across strange mechanical structures that can bend light or alter the time of day, and several large, scalable towers. But even as the game’s complexity escalates, the tasks remain intuitive. I rarely found myself struggling to figure out what to do. On the rare occasion I was stuck, I took a moment to scan my surroundings. A climbable ledge, or a hidden pool of water: something would be nearby, helping me to proceed.
Rime makes excellent use of color and composition to communicate these things to you in a way that feels subtle and natural. It rarely felt like the game was explicitly telling me something; instead, I’d spot the green glow of a magical object in the distance, or the shiny gold of an interactive machine. The one exception is a ghost-like fox creature that serves as a sort of guide, occasionally revealing a path or standing near an area and yapping to draw attention. The game uses these techniques to push you forward.
For all of its moments of beauty and discovery, it’s  hard not to feel a sense of déjà vu while visiting the world of Rime. So much of the experience borrows from past games from Ueda and his team, particularly The Last Guardian. Sometimes it’s big things, like the uncannily familiar architecture, or the structure of the puzzles, which feature a similar blend of platforming and sliding boxes. Other times it’s the smaller details: whenever I heard the weak cry from the young child lead, I couldn’t help but think back to my time with the similar-looking boy from The Last Guardian. Rime isn’t, and couldn’t be, a direct rip-off; both games went through a lengthy development, and The Last Guardian just came out in December. But Rime clearly resembles many of the teases of The Last Guardian that were released over the years.
Rime often benefits from these comparisons. In a lot of ways it’s a much more digestible experience, as it doesn’t have near the level of frustration that plagued The Last Guardian. It doesn’t punish you for failure and it does a remarkable job at keeping you from getting lost or stuck. It’s  a comparatively brief game — it took me around seven hours to complete — that doesn’t overstay its welcome. Rime’s world often feels more diverse and complex than its inspirations, and it  adds its own important elements, with better-designed puzzles, a lush, colorful art style, and a story that proves itself to be powerful and poignant by the end.
But part of what makes a game like The Last Guardian so memorable is that it feels like nothing else — which is why many players can forgive its more obvious flaws. By its very nature Rime can’t have that same sense of wonder or mystery. It’s a very good, very beautiful game filled with moments of revelation and heartbreak, but it’s  largely a game you can’t help but sense you’ve played before.
Rime launches May 26th on PS4, Xbox One, and PC. A Nintendo Switch version if coming at a later, currently unannounced date.
Computex doesn’t start until this weekend, but Acer decided to get a head start and release a couple laptops and tablets today. The company announced two new laptops: the Nitro 5, designed for casual gaming; and the Spin 1, an ultra-light convertible laptop that comes in at less than three pounds.
Acer is  releasing two new Iconia tablets with the One 10 and Tab 10. The One 10 comes with dual Micro USB ports for easy connectivity with external components, while the Tab 10 comes with a Quantam Dot display and four speakers. Both tablets feature MediaTek quad-core processors, run on Android 7.0, and  last eight hours, according to Acer.
While no release information has been given on the tablets, the Spin 1  be available for $329 / €399 July. The Nitro 5  be available in the US and China in July for $799 / ¥5,499, before a wider release in August.
Last year, Hao Jingfang, author of Folding Beijing, became the first Chinese woman to win a Hugo Award. By day, she’s an economics researcher for the China Development Research Foundation. (She holds her PhD in economics, on top of a degree in astrophysics.) She’s  a spokesperson for Audi in China. The company recently put together an ad featuring the author, in which she talks about wealth inequality, the importance of imagination, and her love of writing.
The ad feels a bit like the series of adverts that Matthew McConaughey did for Lincoln in 2014, that used a bit of existentialism to sell cars. (It doesn’t hurt that the ad is set to a track from Interstellar’s soundtrack.)
Hao  recently appeared in an Audi commercial alongside campion Ma Long, the world’s top-ranking International Table Tennis champion, and Cheng Congfu, the first Chinese race driver to complete the Le Mans 24-hour race.
Hao’s appearance in a commercial for a luxury car brand is fascinating for a number of reasons: it’s notable that a sci-fi writer is performing an advertising role in China similar to one a Hollywood megastar plays in the states. But perhaps more curious is Hao vouching for a luxury vehicle. Inequality is a major theme in Folding Beijing, and in the ad, she notes that “we all inhabit totally different worlds,” explaining that she sees growing divide between the rich and the poor, and the old and young.
That observation about living in different worlds led to her Hugo Award-winning story, in which the residents of an overcrowded Beijing endure a city that is physically folded to give each of its three classes time on the surface. Hao used the story to address the problems that she’s seen with wealth inequality and automation. The story was originally published online in 2012 and was later published in 2014 in a pair of Chinese magazines. American author Ken Liu translated the story into English in 2015, where it was published in Uncanny Magazine.
There is a renaissance happening in the world of artificial intelligence. Using deep learning, researchers are producing systems that can recognize objects, understand spoken language, and even simulate the human voice. The quality of these systems is advancing at a blistering pace.
Just three months months ago, Chinese search giant Baidu showed off Deep Voice, a system for turning text into speech. It could produce speech which was nearly indistinguishable from an actual human voice on the first listen, and do it in near real time. But that system could only learn one voice at a time, and required many hours of audio or more from which to build a sample. Today the company is rolling out Deep Voice 2. It can learn the nuances of a person’s voice with just half an hour of audio, and a single system can learn to imitate hundreds of different speakers.
Remember how long it took for Siri to roll out regional accents? That’s because each new voice required an actual human being to record thousands and thousands of hours of speech. After that, engineers spent a long time hand tuning the software, teaching it how to speak. Deep Voice 2 takes a different approach: it learns commonalities shared across hundreds of different speakers to build a model of the human voice, then tweaks that model slightly to craft different characters. And the system doesn’t require any manual adjustment from its human creators. “Give it the right data, and it can learn on their own what sort of features are important,” says Andrew Gibiansky, a research scientist at Baidu's Silicon Valley AI Lab who works on the Deep Voice project.
Baidu imagines that this technology would be useful on digital assistants that are controlled through voice commands that respond by speaking to their users. It  sees potential in text-to-speech applications like ebooks. “The ability to quickly synthesize multiple human voices  have a huge effect on products such as personal assistants and eBook readers in the future. For example, each character of your Ebook could have a unique voice when you list to the Ebook,” the company wrote in a blog post.
Baidu isn’t the only tech giant exploring this space. In September of last year Google’s DeepMind division published research on WaveNet, a vocoder built using deep learning techniques that made huge gains in audio quality over more traditional speech synthesis systems. Startups are  playing in this market. Last month Lyrebird, a Canadian startup, showed off a system that could imitate the vocal nuances of famous figures based on just one minute of audio data.
As we move into a world where our gadgets are increasingly controlled by our voices, with expectations to reply, this technology  be used to create all kinds of custom characters for our digital assistants. Would you prefer Siri to sound like Humphrey Bogart, Hulk Hogan, or Lil Kim? We’re taking suggestions in the comments below.


Welcome to Cheat Sheet, our brief breakdown-style reviews of festival films, VR previews, and other special-event releases. An earlier version of this review originally in January 2017, in conjunction with the Sundance Film Festival. It is being republished to coincide with the film’s Netflix release.
In January, Joe Piscatella’s documentary Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower debuted at Sundance, and promptly won the Audience Award in the World Cinema Documentary Competition. The doc felt particularly relevant in that moment, given the widespread protests across the United States going on during the festival itself. And five months later, it still feels immediate and vital, like a rallying cry for anyone interested in collectively declaring their political stances in public. The causes in Joshua are radically different from the ones currently preoccupying America, but the pattern of government action and popular resistance is much the same. The eponymous Joshua is a fiercely optimistic figure, providing an successful example of civil disobedience in pursuit of institutional change.
Joshua Wong is a Hong Kong high-schooler who created a wildly popular resistance movement against China’s attempt to colonize Hong Kong schools with a mandatory propaganda program. His timely response to a new political leader and a set of unpopular new initiatives leaves Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower feeling half like a template for proactive protest, and half like an uplifting rallying cry, promising that it’s possible for a popular uprising to secure the attention and cooperation of even the most resistant state.
Play-by-play historical documentary.
Piscatella lays out the timeline at the beginning of the film: in 1997, Britain handed Hong Kong back to Chinese control after a 99-year lease. Hong Kongers, accustomed to Western-style governance and social and political freedom, were concerned about the impact of communist China taking over the city. Under the “one country, two systems” decree, they were promised ongoing independence and democracy for at least 50 years. But Beijing quickly began imposing new rules on Hong Kong. One initiative was a mandatory “National Education” program that opponents decried as pro-mainland propaganda, with historical events like the Tiananmen Square protests censored out of existence, and grades based in part on students’ emotional displays of loyalty to the state.
One of the central figures in the protest against the National Education initiative was 15-year-old Joshua Wong, who in 2012 started a movement called Scholarism, demanding that Hong Kong education standards be determined autonomously by Hong Kong leadership. Piscatella opens the film with Wong speaking at a rally, using fiery rhetoric to pump up a vast crowd. He’s a small, gangly kid, but he has an impressive public-speaking manner, and the courage of his convictions. As the doc progresses, Piscatella watches his young subject leading rallies and protests, standing solo on the street handing out leaflets, meeting other students for behind-the-scenes organization, and repeatedly getting mobbed by policemen and hauled off to jail. As the Scholarism movement grows, Piscatella loops in other resistance organizers and organizations. He  tracks the rise in international interest, and the dubious to indifferent response from CY Leung, the Beijing-backed chief executive of Hong Kong.
How one person can absolutely make a major difference in the world, given enough determination, dedication, and support.
From a technical and filmmaking standpoint, nothing about Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower stands out. It’s a conventional talking-head doc, alternating footage of Wong leading protests with interviews in which various scholars contextualize his impact on the country. It’s as dry and straightforward as a reputable news report.
But from a content standpoint, the film is riveting. Piscatella captures how the movement builds over time, and he’s frank about behind-the-scenes despair and weariness sapping Scholarism’s strength, and how personal determination buoys it back up. His footage of violent police response is harrowing, especially when the police specifically target Wong and his lieutenants. They’re mobbed, separated from the crowd, and hauled away. The protests feel one step away from disaster at every moment. But the slow, inexorable build of the people’s response to compelling leadership is thrilling and uplifting.
Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower is almost mirthlessly sincere and straightforward, except when it spends time behind the scenes with Wong’s friends, getting to know the central figures of the movement. Wong himself is relentlessly on-message, so Piscatella spends more one-on-one time with other leaders, like sweet Agnes Chow and geeky Derek Lam. (The latter gives the film some much-needed humor by likening the entire political battle to Star Wars: “If you want to defeat Darth Vader, then you’re going to have to train some Jedi.”) The movie’s most charming moments all occur at school meetings for Scholarism, where the teenage activists briefly drop their game faces in favor of horseplay and friendly teasing about Wong’s lackluster video-game skills.
But the film’s inspirational value comes from Scholarism’s long, Occupy Wall Street-style sit-in, and from the rise of the “Umbrella Movement,” so-called because students used umbrellas first to deflect riot police’s tear gas, then to quietly identify themselves as part of a growing collective. It’s heartening to see people coming together peacefully, cooperatively, and above all, effectively.
U for Useful Educational Film, taught surreptitiously in schools around the world, probably starting around age 14.
The film  be available for streaming on Netflix on May 26.
Walt Mossberg’s final weekly column at The Verge before retirement was published today. Our beloved podcast Ctrl-Walt-Delete traditionally echoes his column, and this week’s episode (our 75th!) is no different. In our last episode recorded in studio, Walt and Nilay talk through Walt’s column and the future of tech. The show  focuses on each of the big tech companies and what is possibly in store for their future.
This is an episode you are not going to want to miss.
And I know what you’re thinking... the last show? Well, kind of. We are happy to announce that we are doing a live taping of Ctrl-Walt-Delete for our final show! Come hang out with Walt and Nilay at the School of Visual Arts in New York City on June 9th at 6PM ET. Stay tuned for more details and tickets on the site.
And as always, we still love your feedback on the topics of the show and suggestions on how to make our podcasts better and more fun. Let us know how you liked our show! You can tweet at Walt at @waltmossberg and Nilay at @reckless. And of course, we'd love it if you subscribed on iTunes (here's the direct RSS feed, if you like), along with The Verge's other podcasts The Vergecast and Verge Extras. You might  want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask featuring The Verge's Lauren Goode.
And hey, you still have time to get a Ctrl-Walt-Delete T-shirt! Check out our merch store here.
Qualcomm is asking a court to force Apple’s iPhone and iPad manufacturers to pay up, since they’ve been withholding royalty payments for weeks under Apple’s instructions.
In a court filing yesterday, Qualcomm asked for a preliminary injunction against four of Apple’s suppliers — Foxconn, Pegatron, Wistron, and Compal — all of which it began suing for breach of contract earlier this month. Qualcomm said in April that Apple had instructed those companies not to pay royalties for devices they made using Qualcomm technology. It later said that would lead to a loss of $500 million in revenue this quarter alone because of the missing payments.
Qualcomm and Apple are locked in a worldwide legal dispute over patents and payments, with Qualcomm largely stuck playing defense. Apple has said that Qualcomm has been charging excessively high patent licensing fees for years, using its position as the dominant supplier of smartphone modems as leverage.
In its new filing, Qualcomm says that Apple is trying to force a settlement by throwing its weight around. “Apple could litigate against Qualcomm indefinitely; it has virtually unlimited resources (more than $256 billion in cash reserves) and already has filed multiple cases against Qualcomm not just in this court, but around the world. And when those cases end, Apple can file more cases,” the company writes in a new filing.
It goes on to say that Apple “has chosen commercial ransom over judicial process” and that it’s trying to get an unfair deal on Qualcomm’s technology “through coercion enabled by its enormous market power.”
Apple declined to provide a new comment on the filing, once again pointing to older remarks. In one of those, Tim Cook says that Qualcomm is “trying to charge Apple a percentage of the total iPhone value” when what it provides is “one small part of what an iPhone is.” In a separate statement from April, Apple says it’s suspending payments “until the correct amount can be determined by the court.”
Backing up Apple’s claims is a lawsuit from the Federal Trade Commission, which began suing Qualcomm earlier this year for anti-competitive practices in regard to how it obtains patent licenses. In filings earlier this month, Samsung and Intel  put their weight behind the FTC.

Nnedi Okorafor is one of the most exciting authors writing science fiction and fantasy today, and we really enjoyed her Binti stories when we read them earlier this year. She’s currently an associate professor of creative writing and literature at the University of Buffalo, and has won widespread acclaim for her work, including the World Fantasy, Hugo, and Nebula awards.
The two novellas follow Binti, a bright young woman who leaves her family to travel to a well-known interstellar university called Oomza Uni. On her way there, her spaceship is attacked by the Meduse, a jellyfish-like alien species that have an ax to grind against humans. Binti manages to broker peace between the aliens and humanity, and spends a year at the school before returning home, where she discovers some secrets about her family and heritage. Though the books are short at just a couple of hundred pages apiece, they manage to tell discrete, engrossing adventures. The next installment of the trilogy is Binti: The Night Masquerade, which is set to come out next January.
This next book sees new tensions between the Meduse and the Khoush, who have an ancient rivalry with the aliens. Binti returns home as a new conflict starts, and it’s up to her and a new friend named Mwinyi, to try and reach some sort of peace once again, even as her village elders don’t trust her or her motives. Failure, however, could mean the end of her entire people.
We recently had the opportunity to chat with Okorafor about her books, and got an early look at the cover for the third installment, Binti: The Night Masquerade.
Can you tell me a bit about how you originally conceived Binti? Where did she come from?
Binti was born out of my own personal struggles with family, my own need to pursue my dreams, my need to see Africa in the future, and my experiences of traveling to distant and vastly different parts of the world in a short period of time. And then that concoction was spiced with several layers of fear — from a fear of my own decisions to a fear of outer space.
You've spoken a great deal about your Nigerian heritage. How did this inform Binti's story?
One of Binti’s most central conflicts is with her identity. She leaves home, yet brings home with her literally — by wearing red earth on her skin as part of her cultural expression — spiritually and metaphorically. She’s constantly asking the question, “Who am I?” This question grows louder and louder with each novella. It’s a struggle I know very well as a Nigerian-American who closely identifies with both cultures and knows that a new one is created from the synthesis.
Binti has gone through some incredible changes in the last two books, and she's a different person when she returns to her family. What's next for Binti in The Night Masquerade?
It’s often said that one can never return home, because the journey changes you. Binti learns this in a most interesting way. In Binti, Binti leaves home. In Binti: Home, she returns home. In Binti: The Night Masquerade, she deals with “home” on a much larger scale. The Night Masquerade is the finale of the trilogy (though this doesn't mean there won’t be more stories in this universe), and it’s a pretty grand finale.
Are there any stories that particularly influenced these novellas?
I started writing Binti when I was in a deeply bothered state. Much of the Binti series came from personal struggles, narratives, and imaginings. I can’t really name any novels that were a specific influence.
When I look back, I can see flashes of Hayao Miyazaki’s Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind in Binti. The character of Nausicaä has a lot of similarities to Binti: both are agents of change and mediators. Binti, however, is far more nonviolent. , some other elements from the graphic novels and animated films found their way into the DNA of the Binti trilogy. I’m a big fan of Star Wars, and my love for that series and world helped me find the courage to write my own space opera. Lastly, there was a cartoon I loved from the ‘80s called Galaxy High. It was about an intergalactic high school. I loved that cartoon.
One of the things that I noticed while reading these books is that they felt just right for their sizes. They were short, but they didn't overstay their welcome. How does Tor.com Publishing's novella line change the stories that you might have otherwise told if this were a novel?
When I wrote these stories, I wasn’t writing to any length. I would have written these stories in the way that I wrote them no matter what. So I can’t say that Tor.com novella line made them the length they are. The stories came as they would come. However, I can say that the coming of Tor.com’s novella line created a space for the publication of this tale that came to me in such a unique way. What they produced with my Binti trilogy has been all that I could have hoped for — I was given an amazing editor [Lee Harris], beautiful print and electronic editions, lovely covers by an incredible illustrator [David Palumbo], and so on. And if you’ve looked at the other Tor.com novellas, you’ll see I’m in the company of such excellence. It’s a great time for novellas. I had no idea I was on the cusp of this novella renaissance when I wrote Binti, but I’m certainly not complaining.
What else do you have coming up on the horizon?
In October, the sequel to my young adult novel Akata Witch  be released. It’s called Akata Warrior, and I’m so pleased to finally see this novel released. It took me six years. I  have several short stories coming out in the next year, including a Star Wars short story and a science fiction story in the MIT Review’s science fiction anthology. I  have a comic book series coming out next year. It hasn’t been announced yet, so I can’t say much about it other than it’s not set in the United States and it’s unexpected.
On Sunday, The Guardian published what it has dubbed the Facebook Files, leaked documents describing the rules Facebook has developed to govern what its 2 billion users are allowed to share publicly. The more than 100 internal documents reveal the chasm between the platform’s simple and anodyne Terms of Service or Community Guidelines and the complex and granular moderation work that really takes place on the platform. Until now, there has been little information about how hidden teams of workers, assisted by expanding and experimental AI, regulate millions of violent, hateful, abusive, and illegal items every day.
Facebook’s guidelines — which reflect mainstream laws and cultural norms — have proven woefully inadequate for addressing violent and hateful user-generated content. That’s been true for a long time, and it is even more so today as images, both live and still, come to replace text as our dominant form of expression. Murderers and torturers in search of instant fame and glory take advantage of live-streaming and ranking algorithms to broadcast graphic crimes with the swipe of a thumb. Russian hackers steal US Military “revenge” porn from secret Facebook groups and use it for political blackmail. Terrorists create private groups to trade ideas and cultivate violent ideation.
Users post text, images, and more relentlessly on Facebook, where teams of thousands cannot scramble fast enough to scrub them off the site. Facebook, for its part, is releasing new tools that attempt to address the thorny fact that images and live video are outpacing, and even replacing, text-based online speech, which are much harder to control. Clearly, Facebook is failing.
During a visit to his alma mater, Bowdoin, this spring, Dave ner, who helped build Facebook’s first speech guidelines and is now head of community policy at Airbnb, described the challenge of dealing with images in stark terms: “[W]hile Facebook has technically hard problems—like it has to store two billion people’s photos indefinitely for the rest of time—the hard problems those companies face are, what do you do about live video murder? In terms of consequences for the company and the societal impact, the hard problems are the human problems.”
Despite years of warnings from academics, sociologists, and civic society advocates about the potential harm of unleashing technologies with minimal understanding of their impacts, social media companies unabashedly continue to espouse utopian visions. Tech powers continue to advertise products with promises of magic and awe. These products often come with little to no safety or privacy protocols against the potential for amplifying long-standing exploitation and violence. Facebook markets Facebook Live as “a fun, engaging way to connect with your followers and grow your audience.” That may be how the majority of users use the product, but a quick Google search of Facebook Live turns up pages of headlines about live-streamed suicide, murder, and rape.
“Keeping people on Facebook safe is the most important thing we do. We work hard to make Facebook as safe as possible while enabling free speech,” Facebook’s Monika Bickert, head of global policy management, said in a statement responding to The Guardian’s story. “We’re going to make it simpler to report problems to us, faster for our reviewers to determine which posts violate our standards and easier for them to contact law enforcement if someone needs help.”
Over the course of the past five years, we have both engaged in free speech and safety advocacy work, as well as written extensively about the lack of transparency and power inherent in Facebook’s moderation of user-generated content. We have interviewed dozens of industry leaders, experts, employees, former employees, moderators, academics, legal experts, and social scientists. One conclusion is clear and consistent: companies like Facebook — and the practices they develop to respond to the challenges of moderation — are human endeavors, governed by human experiences, judgements, and needs. And maybe, above all else, profit. Social media platforms are not simply technologies with problems that can be solved with more proprietary technology, people, or programming — they are socio-technologies with impacts which far exceed the protocols and profit goals of any platform.
They have, as is now glaringly obvious, serious consequences for individuals and society. And these consequences are a result of private deliberations behind closed doors. Corporations regulate speech all day, every day. Silicon Valley may not have anticipated the scale, costs, and implications of moderation, but many others, like UCLA’s Sarah T. Roberts, have been trying to raise public awareness and demand greater corporate transparency for years.
Where does Facebook go from here? Solutions remain elusive, but there are several consistent suggestions we’ve heard from observers:
Build a tech fix
There is currently an industry-wide focus on the use of algorithms to “solve” the problem of moderation. But algorithms are learning machines that rely on inputs and past behavior, often turning the “is” into the “ought,” at scale. Automation means the reproduction of status quo inequities evident in the moderation guidelines published by The Guardian. It is currently okay, according to the published documents, to say “Let’s beat up fat kids,” and “To snap a bitch’s neck, make sure to apply all of your pressure to the middle of her throat,” but not to specify which fat kid you want to beat up or which bitch you want to kill. Algorithms cannot appreciate preexisting biases, a specific context, or pervasive environmental hostility in making those decisions. Without accountability, oversight, and thoughtful ethical intervention, algorithms run the risk, arguably and demonstrably, of making an already complex situation worse. Initiatives are underway to improve an algorithm's ability to address these issues, but for the foreseeable future the nature of moderation remains intensely human.
“Facebook and others keep telling us that machine learning is going to save the day,” says Hany Farid, professor and chair of computer science at Dartmouth and a senior advisor to the Counter Extremism Project. He developed the groundbreaking photoDNA technology used to detect, remove, and report child-exploitation images. Farid says that his new technology, eGlyph, built on the conceptual framework of photoDNA, “allows us to analyze images, videos, and audio recordings (whereas photoDNA is only applicable to images).” But a better algorithm can’t fix the mess Facebook’s currently in. “This promise is still — at best — many years away, and we can’t wait until this technology progresses far enough to do something about the problems that we are seeing online.”
Spend more money and hire more people
In response to recent criticism, Facebook announced that it was hiring an additional 3,000 moderators, on top of the 4,500 individuals it already employs worldwide, to take down questionable content. More moderators, the argument goes, could better handle the fire hose of abusive and damaging, “offensive” content. But there is no magic number of people that  stem the flow of violent, hateful, and threatening content, even if they are able to respond more quickly to reports. Adding and supporting moderators, while critical, has nothing to do with the process of deciding what is acceptable content.
Regulate platforms more heavily
In the United States, companies like Facebook are highly unregulated when it comes to user-generated content. This is thanks to Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which legally absolves platforms from responsibility for user-generated content. Social media systems are not, for the purposes of US law, considered publishers and are almost entirely immune from content-related legal liability. But outside of the US, Facebook is engaged in endless legal battles with governments with beliefs that differ greatly from those of the US government’s.
Activist Jillian York, director for International Freedom of Expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation runs a project, onlinecensorship.org, that tracks the removal of user content by platforms. She is acutely aware of the tightrope walk between government and private corporation regulations of speech. “Section 230 is vital to ensuring that platforms like Facebook (as well as smaller websites and individual publishers) aren't held liable for users' speech,” says York. She is strongly opposed to any kind of full government oversight, but believes regulation by the state is preferable to regulation by private companies like Facebook. “The US is unique in these protections, and while I understand that there are drawbacks, I think the benefits are enormous. That said, Facebook already plays an editorial role in user content. I think the key is more transparency, all around.”
Don’t regulate or moderate
Free speech activists and absolutists argue that Facebook should not be in the business of moderating content at all. This position is untenable in almost every conceivable way. For Facebook, free rein is incompatible with the existence of Facebook as a profitable, expanding, global brand. An unmoderated platform, Facebook executives and industry experts know, would almost immediately spiral into a pornographic cesspool, driving mainstream users away. Any practical and realistic approach to the problems represented by user-generated content has to presume some level of moderation.
Change how Facebook moderation functions
Almost without fail, executives, civil society advocates, and subject matter experts who have worked with Facebook during the past 10 years believe that greater transparency and engagement are critical to both the assessment of problems and finding solutions. The Guardian’s publication of the moderation guidelines is so important because Facebook, like Twitter, YouTube, and other similar platforms, refuse to share details of their content regulation. While there are many understandable reasons — abusers gaming the system, competitors gaining insights into internal processes — there are many more compelling ones arguing for more transparency and accountability.
Previously, we have explored the possibility that Facebook effectively functions more like a media company than a tech company and that the act of moderation arguably translates into “publishing.” While categorizing Facebook as “media” would not solve the problem of moderation, per se, it would have serious ethical, professional, and legal implications. Facebook would shoulder more responsibility for its powerful influence in the public sphere.
In his 2016 book Free Speech, Timothy Garton Ash calls Facebook a superpower, built exclusively on a profit model with absent moral and legal mechanisms of accountability that exist for traditional media. Facebook controls vast, privately owned public spaces. If the company were a country, it would be the world’s largest. But it does not have the formal lawmaking authority of sovereign states. There is no formal mechanism of accountability. “Yet [its] capacity to enable or limit freedom of information and expression is greater than most states,” writes Garton Ash.
Nicco Mele, a technologist, former deputy publisher of the Los Angeles Times, and now director of the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, argues that Facebook is a media company “because it derives almost all of its revenue from advertising, by monetizing its audience attention.” Media companies, he wrote in an email, “have special responsibilities to the public good because of their unique power to shape public opinion.”
The recent attention to Facebook’s moderation fails, he says, “increases the likelihood that Facebook  need to put in place new methods of managing the content published on their platform; the company already does this around some kinds of content (child pornography, for example). In my assessment, the company is far from the level of monitoring and infrastructure their platform requires to meet its obligations to the public — and consequently a likely increase in headcount and expenditures is in its future. The longer the company puts off self-policing, the more likely regulation becomes.”
Mele believes regulation could mean many things for consumers. “We have a long history of regulating media in different ways — remember Janet Jackson’s Super Bowl halftime fashion mishap? Or more recently, Stephen Colbert’s unfortunate use of the word [cock] holster on late-night television?” The Federal Communications Commission, he notes, monitors and regulates broadcast media, so, “there is a precedent that any regulation could follow. The movie industry, facing potential regulation, voluntarily adopted the parental rating system. Facebook is at a crossroads.”
For now, it’s all but inconceivable that Mark Zuckerberg  ever call Facebook a media company or a publisher. Early on, he described Facebook as an “information infrastructure.” He has recently used the term “social infrastructure” instead, as reported by Sarah Kessler, an expression that evokes such public service functions as the USPS or public housing. If that’s the case, then the debate over moderation is really a debate about a global public commons, even as that commons is privately held and regulated.
On the same day The Guardian released of the leaked Facebook Files, The New York Times ran a profile of Twitter founder Evan iams. In the piece, iams apologized for Twitter’s possible role in Trump’s win, and admitted he’d never fathomed that Twitter would be used for nefarious purposes. “I thought once everyone could speak freely and exchange information and ideas, the world is automatically going to be a better places. I was wrong about that.” His mistake, reads the story, “was expecting the internet to resemble the person he saw in the mirror…”
“The Internet Is Broken,” the story headline read. “Broken” has become the preferred expression for referring to the dark, unsavory part of the internet. But you wouldn’t know that the internet was broken from Facebook’s earnings report for the third quarter of 2016 — a period during which Facebook’s net income increased 166 percent over the same period in 2015. The company’s ad revenue hit an unprecedented $6.8 billion. Harassment, fake news, and gruesome, graphically violent, and salacious content are profitable because they are relentless drivers of user engagement. Harvard Law School professor Susan Crawford, author of Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in the New Gilded Age, says, “This is about Facebook’s determination to have billions of people treat its platform as The Internet… Facebook wants simultaneously to be viewed as basic infrastructure while ensuring its highly profitable ways of doing deals are unconstrained.”
In the case of Facebook, or any other major platform, tech founders and leaders, who make billions off the affective digital labor of billions worldwide, have a distinct responsibility to imagine all the ways their platforms can be perverted in a world that includes murder, rape, child abuse, and terrorism, and those who  use platforms like Facebook to enact them.
“They’ve been trying to contain this problem, real and significant, for a long time,” says Roberts, “but it’s no longer containable.”
We are grateful to whoever took the significant risk to share documents Facebook has worked so hard for so long to keep under wraps, as we are grateful to the moderators, community managers, and senior executives who risked their jobs to talk to us about their hard work. For now, in the words of Hany Farid, “Here we are in crisis mode.” Facebook and others, he says, “have been dragging their feet for years to deal with what they knew was a growing problem. There is no doubt that this is a difficult problem and any solution  be imperfect, but we can do much better than we have.”
Soraya Chemaly and Catherine Buni report on online content moderation for The Investigative Fund.
GLAAD released its annual report on LGBTQ representation in film today, and the numbers are bleak. They’ve barely increased since 2015, and when broken out into more specific demographics, they often got worse.
Overall, representation of lesbian, gay, transgender, or queer characters was slightly higher in 2016 than 2015. GLAAD reports that 18.4 percent of the industry’s top 125 films included a LGBTQ character. However, gay men still make up a whopping 83 percent of these characters, and of the 70 LGBTQ characters that GLAAD identified (up from 47 the year before), 14 of them were back-up dancers in one musical number in The Lonely Island’s summer comedy Popstar.
Racial diversity in films with LGBTQ representation decreased in 2016, with characters played by people of color down to 20 percent from 25.5 percent in 2015 and 32.1 percent in 2014.
The report  tracks representation by individual major film studios, awarding only Paramount and Universal Pictures ratings of “poor” rather than “failing.” Paramount released 15 films last year, five of which featured LGBTQ characters — but GLAAD  points out that Zoolander 2 (the subject of an online boycott) was riddled with terrible, stereotypical parts for these characters, often setting up LGBTQ people as a punchline. Universal released 17 movies, and featured an LGBTQ character in five. GLAAD compliments storylines in Popstar, My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2, and Neighbors 2, but dings the Coen brothers’ Hail Caesar! for using “offensive” and “overdone” stereotypes of closeted but semi-predatory gay characters. Warner Bros., 20th Century Fox, Lionsgate, Sony, and Disney all featured LGBTQ characters in 21 percent of their films or less. Disney was the worst performer, with only 8 percent of its 2016 releases including any LGBTQ representation.
“The bars are not being moved,” GLAAD president Sarah Kate Ellis told Variety, “It is not getting better.”
Of course, it’s important to remember that the numbers, bad enough on the surface, are  just a starting point when discussing representation — thinly written LGBTQ characters don’t represent anybody. Just as important as who’s on the screen, it’s vital to pay attention to who gets the opportunity to write and create the characters. (And despite what Aaron Sorkin might have you believe, that’s pretty easy. Use Google.) Last year’s Best Picture winner, Barry Jenkins’ Moonlight, is an extremely intimate and empathetic portrait of gay black identity, in part because it was written and directed by someone who possessed that experience. It was the center of critical and popular attention for many months, and on top of providing much-clamored-for representation, it did some of the work of setting the bar for these stories going forward.
By contrast, GLAAD’s findings regarding representation on television in 2016 were significantly more optimistic. The organization’s November report showed that LGBTQ characters made up about 4 percent of all TV characters, a number slightly higher than the estimated LGBTQ population in the US. The number of lesbian characters had dipped, but transgender characters doubled year over year, while the number of bisexual characters had increased by 10 percentage points. As usual, the film industry is two or 40 steps behind.
Every company that makes PCs has been chasing Microsoft in the race to create a tablet that can work as a laptop. Samsung’s first real effort at this was last year’s TabPro S, which introduced a number of good ideas, but ultimately was underpowered and fell short of beating the Surface Pro at its own game.
Now Samsung has launched its second attempt at making this do-all device, the Windows 10-powered Galaxy Book. The Book  adds a number of improvements over Microsoft’s Surface Pro, and addresses some of the issues that the TabPro S had, such as its uneven performance. But at the same time, the Book has problems of its own that prevent it from being the ultimate tablet-slash-laptop.
There are two versions of the Book: a 10-inch Wi-Fi-only model that starts at $629.99 and a 12-inch version that comes in Wi-Fi and LTE flavors for $1,129.99 and $1,299.99, respectively. Both models come with a pen and keyboard in the box, which is something Microsoft and Apple charge extra for with their tablets. I’ve been testing the 12-inch LTE model, which has an Intel Core i5 processor (seventh-generation, Kaby Lake), 4GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage. For this price, I’d have expected more RAM and storage, but I appreciate the built-in connectivity. (The Wi-Fi-only Book 12 can be equipped with more RAM and storage, but only one option is available for the LTE version.)
As with most Samsung devices, the best part of the Book is its display. The 12-inch model has a HDR-capable Super AMOLED touchscreen that’s sharp and vibrant with good contrast and lovely black levels. It’s a 3:2 aspect ratio with 2160 x 1440 pixels, which make it better suited for doing work in a landscape orientation than reading in portrait mode. I don’t really have any complaints with the display, other than the brightness adjustment goes from fully bright to unreadably dim in just a few steps. I ended up using it a notch or two higher than the default setting most of the time as a result. There’s  Samsung’s comically dated spinning 3D text screensaver that kicks in after just a few minutes and can’t be disabled.
The included keyboard acts as an input method, stand, and case for the tablet. The full-size, plastic, chiclet keys are closer to a standard laptop keyboard than Apple’s fabric-covered Smart Keyboard or the Surface’s slimmer design. It attaches to the tablet via pogo pins, so there’s no pairing necessary, and the keyboard doesn’t ever need to be charged.
It’s clear that Samsung designed the Book with the idea that it would always live in this case, as it’s too big and cumbersome to really use as a dedicated tablet most of the time. Fortunately, the keys are surprisingly nice to type on, with good travel, spacing, and feedback; they even come with a backlight. The trackpad is  responsive and easy to use — it supports Microsoft’s Precision drivers, so scrolling and multitouch gestures work quite well.
As good as the case’s keyboard and trackpad are, it falls short as a stand. It attaches to the back of the tablet via magnets and offers three different angles of incline, which is better than Apple’s Smart Keyboard and its one position, but far worse than the Surface Pro’s infinitely adjustable built-in kickstand. Propping the tablet up in the case is awkward at first, but it’s stable once you get the hang of it.
I should clarify: it’s stable if you’re using the Book on a table or desk. It’s a completely different story on my lap, where the keyboard case is floppy and extremely awkward. Worse, unlike last year’s TabPro S that had a short, flat base, the Book’s case has a very long footprint, which makes it easy to slide off my knees and impossible to fit on the ever-shrinking airplane tray table. Both the Surface Pro and iPad Pro with Smart Keyboard are much easier to use as laptops on my lap.
That’s doubly frustrating for the LTE-equipped Book, because if it could be comfortably used on a lap, it would be a train commuter’s dream portable computer. A built-in internet connection (the Book uses Verizon for its connectivity) is far superior than relying on Wi-Fi hot spots or tethering to a phone or other connected device, but that’s all a moot point you have to sit at a desk to get the best experience with the device.
The included pen has fewer issues than the case and works well for writing or doodling on the screen. It’s not as good for drawing or art purposes as the Apple Pencil or Microsoft’s new Surface Pen, but it comes in the box and never needs to be paired or charged, so it works for me. There’s no way to attach the pen to the tablet directly, so Samsung includes a pen loop that sticks to the bottom of the keyboard case to keep it all together. It’s not elegant, but it gets the job done. And there are a few software features specific to the pen, such as a note-taking app and screenshot tool. You can  use Windows 10’s built-in Ink functions with the pen if you prefer.
It’s a shame that the Book is so damn awkward to use because performance-wise it’s much better than last year’s TabPro S. I’ve been using it as my main work computer for the past week and I’ve had zero performance issues. I initially thought the 4GB of RAM would be a bottleneck — it certainly was for the TabPro S — but I’ve been able to run multiple programs and lots of browser tabs without having them constantly reload or crash. I can switch between apps and virtual desktops with ease and apps and programs launch quickly. This is not the machine for heavy photo editing, gaming, or any video editing, but for day-to-day business tasks, such as using a web browser, Microsoft’s mail and calendar apps, and the Office suite, it’s quite capable.
You’ll have to get used to the consistent hum of the Book’s fans, however, as they are almost constantly running. They don’t get as loud as the Surface Pro 4’s fans when those kick into gear, but they  seem to never turn off.
Samsung claims "up to 11 hours" of battery life with the 12-inch Book, but unsurprisingly, the company’s claim and my experience differ greatly. Most days, the Book needs to be charged after just five or six hours of use as a computer — you might get more stamina if you just use it to watch locally stored video, but I don’t think most people  use this device that way. It does have fast charging through either of its two USB Type-C ports, but it still takes a couple of hours to get a full charge.
I appreciate that Samsung directly addressed some of the issues the TabPro S had last year (lack of backlit keyboard, no pen included, performance bottlenecks), but it’s as if each improvement means another sacrifice is made. What you end up with is a supremely portable tablet-slash-laptop that can’t be used on your lap and can only go half a day away from an outlet before it needs to be recharged. And that’s before you get to its price, which is hundreds of dollars more than last year’s model.
It  doesn’t help that Microsoft just announced a new version of the Surface Pro that  finally come with an LTE option, sniping right at one of the few differentiators Samsung has with the Book.
The Galaxy Book is okay in a vacuum — it has a nice display, solid performance, and a comfortable keyboard — but in this surprisingly competitive field, it doesn’t match up. The PC market marches on, but this one merely stumbles.
The Get Down, Baz Luhrmann’s musical drama set in the South Bronx in the late 1970s,  not return after its first season. Deadline reports that Netflix has canceled the show, a rare move for the streaming service.
Netflix’s list of nixed shows is short, and the ones it has ended have usually enjoyed a few seasons. Bloodline is ending with its third season, much like Hemlock Grove and Lilyhammer did when they were canceled. Marco Polo got just two seasons. The Get Down’s cancelation appears to be connected to Luhrmann’s inability to fully commit to the project for another season.
On Facebook, he posted a lengthy note to fans on why the show was “unlikely” to continue. “When I was asked to come to the center of The Get Down to help realize it, I had to defer a film directing commitment for at least two years,” Luhrmann said. “This exclusivity has understandably become a sticking point for Netflix and Sony, who have been tremendous partners and supporters of the show. It kills me that I can’t split myself into two and make myself available to both productions. I feel so deeply connected to all those who I have worked and collaborated with on this remarkable experience.”
Luhrmann said that while other productions like a stage show have been “thrown around for the future,” the director is focused on preparing new cinematic work. “The simple truth is, I make movies. And the thing with movies is, that when you direct them, there can be nothing else in your life.”
In an interview with Vulture in April, Luhrmann said season 2 was already in the works. “Sony and Netflix have been very driven about having a second season,” he said. “There has been no question about that. They really want it.” He  voiced his hesitation about being the showrunner right from The Get Down’s start, as well as his disinterest in acting in that role in a second season. “I cannot really be at the center of it. At a certain point, you go, you know, I have a family and I can’t be central to it, and I don’t think I should be.”
The Get Down was a costly show for Netflix, wrapping at $120 million. Last year, Variety reported on the many behind-the-scenes woes the show was facing, including cycling through showrunners and writers, tossed scripts, going over budget, and production stalls.



This is my last weekly column for The Verge and Recode — the last weekly column I plan to write anywhere. I’ve been doing these almost every week since 1991, starting at The Wall Street Journal, and during that time, I’ve been fortunate enough to get to know the makers of the tech revolution, and to ruminate — and sometimes to fulminate — about their creations.
Now, as I prepare to retire at the end of that very long and world-changing stretch, it seems appropriate to ponder the sweep of consumer technology in that period, and what we can expect next.
Let me start by revising the oft-quoted first line of my first Personal Technology column in the Journal on October 17th, 1991: “Personal computers are just too hard to use, and it’s not your fault.” It was true then, and for many, many years thereafter. Not only were the interfaces confusing, but most tech products demanded frequent tweaking and fixing of a type that required more technical skill than most people had, or cared to acquire. The whole field was new, and engineers weren’t designing products for normal people who had other talents and interests.
But, over time, the products have gotten more reliable and easier to use, and the users more sophisticated. You can now hand an iPad to a six-year-old, and, with just a bit of help, she  very likely learn how to operate it quickly. That’s amazing, given that the iPad is far more powerful than any complex PC I was testing in the 1990s. Plus, today’s hardware and software rarely fails catastrophically like PCs did so often in the old days.
So, now, I’d say: “Personal technology is usually pretty easy to use, and, if it’s not, it’s not your fault.” The devices we've come to rely on, like PCs and phones, aren't new anymore. They're refined, built with regular users in mind, and they get better each year.
Anything really new is still too close to the engineers to be simple or reliable. Many people aren’t going to be able to hook up a dedicated virtual reality system, or want to wear the headset. And most of us can’t yet trust Siri, Alexa, or Google Assistant for an accurate, useful answer much of the time. But it’s early days for those technologies.
So: where are we now, and what’s coming?
As I write this, the personal tech world is bursting with possibility, but few new blockbuster, game-changing products are hitting the mainstream. So a strange kind of lull has set in.
The multi-touch smartphone, launched 10 years ago with Apple’s first iPhone, has conquered the world, and it’s not done getting better. It has, in fact, become the new personal computer. But it’s a maturing product that I doubt has huge improvements ahead of it. Tablets rose like a rocket, but have struggled to find an essential place in many people's’ lives. Desktops and laptops have become table stakes, part of the furniture.
The big software revolutions, like cloud computing, search engines, and social networks, are  still growing and improving, but have become largely established.
Consumer drones and robotics are in their infancy, a niche, with too few practical uses as yet.
The biggest hardware and software arrival since the iPad in 2010 has been Amazon’s Echo voice-controlled intelligent speaker, powered by its Alexa software assistant. It arrived in 2015, and was followed last year by the similar Google Home device. I expect others.
But the Echo and Alexa are just getting started. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos told me in an interview last year that artificial intelligence was not just in the first inning of a long baseball game, but at the stage where the very first batter comes up. And, while Amazon doesn’t release sales figures for the Echo family, third-party estimates say that, while they are growing fast, they were still well below 10 million units last year. For comparison, even in a relatively weak period, Apple sold 50 million much costlier iPhones in just 90 days last quarter, and the combined total sales of the far more prevalent Android phones no doubt were much greater.
Google just announced that there are now 2 billion Android devices in active monthly use globally, and Apple announced a year and a half ago that there were over 1 billion iOS devices in active use. These are mostly smartphones, and they are no longer novel.
But just because you’re not seeing amazing new consumer tech products on Amazon, in the app stores, or at the Apple Store or Best Buy, that doesn’t mean the tech revolution is stuck, or stopped. In fact, it’s just pausing to conquer some major new territory. And, if it succeeds, the results could be as big, or bigger, than the first consumer PCs were in the 1970s, or even the web in the 1990s and smartphones in the first decade of this century.
All of the major tech players, companies from other industries, and startups with names we don’t know yet are working away on some or all of the new major building blocks of the future. They are: artificial intelligence / machine learning, augmented reality, virtual reality, robotics and drones, smart homes, self-driving cars, and digital health / wearables.
All of these things have dependencies in common. They include greater and more distributed computing power, new sensors, better networks, smarter voice and visual recognition, and software that’s simultaneously more intelligent and more secure.
Examples of all these technologies already exist, but they are early, limited, and mainly attractive to enthusiasts. Compared to what’s coming, they are like the Commodore PET (look it up, kids) or those huge car phones in old movies.
I expect that one end result of all this work  be that the technology, the computer inside all these things,  fade into the background. In some cases, it may entirely disappear, waiting to be activated by a voice command, a person entering the room, a change in blood chemistry, a shift in temperature, a motion. Maybe even just a thought.
Your whole home, office and car  be packed with these waiting computers and sensors. But they won’t be in your way, or perhaps even distinguishable as tech devices.
This is ambient computing, the transformation of the environment all around us with intelligence and capabilities that don’t seem to be there at all.
It reminds me of a great Saturday Night Live skit, from 2005, where cast member Fred Armisen, playing Steve Jobs, shows off an ever-smaller series of iPods, finally producing a model that’s literally invisible, yet holds “every photograph ever taken.”
Just in recent weeks, Facebook’s famed researcher Regina Dugan has announced that her secretive team is working on using the brain to type, and to control augmented reality devices. They are  developing ways to “hear” through your skin.
Their idea is that, even if augmented reality gets built into standard eyeglasses and can impose sophisticated virtual objects onto real life, it won’t be seamless if you have to push buttons, use touch controls or utter commands.
Apple reportedly has a secret project to monitor the glucose levels of diabetics with new non-invasive sensors, ending the need for daily test needles.
Google has changed its entire corporate mission to be “AI first” and, with Google Home and Google Assistant, to perform tasks via voice commands and eventually hold real, unstructured conversations.
Several small firms are pursuing the prospect of recharging mobile devices with power sent through the air, so power cords won’t be around.
I expect to see much of this new ambient computing world appear within 10 years, and all of it appear within 20.
Every one of these efforts has the potential to create a new world that’s unrecognizable. It’s a radically different way of thinking about tech.
When the internet first arrived, it was a discrete activity you performed on a discrete hunk of metal and plastic called a PC, using a discrete software program called a browser. Even now, though the net is like the electrical grid, powering many things, you still use a discrete device — a smartphone, say — to access it. Sure, you can summon some internet smarts through an Echo, but there’s still a device there, and you still have to know the magic words to say. We are a long way from the invisible, omnipresent computer in Starship Enterprise.
Worse, those early computers were in your way. They were hulking objects that demanded space and skill. Even now, if you look around a restaurant, you’ll see smartphones on the tables, waiting to be used.
Computers have gotten vastly easier to use, but they still demand attention and care, from charging batteries to knowing which apps to use and when to use them.
Technology has been a great thing, but it’s been too unnatural, an add-on to life, for 40 years. What’s going on in the labs has the promise to change that.
Some of you who’ve gotten this far are already recoiling at the idea of ambient computing. You're focused on the prospects for invasion of privacy, for monetizing even more of your life, for government snooping and for even worse hacking than exists today. If the FBI can threaten a huge company like Apple over an iPhone passcode, what are your odds of protecting your future tech-dependent environment from government intrusion? If British hospitals have to shut down due to a ransomware attack, can online crooks lock you out of your house, office, or car?
Good questions.
My best answer is that, if we are really going to turn over our homes, our cars, our health, and more to private tech companies, on a scale never imagined, we need much, much stronger standards for security and privacy than now exist. Especially in the US, it’s time to stop dancing around the privacy and security issues and pass real, binding laws.
And, if ambient technology is to become as integrated into our lives as previous technological revolutions like wood joists, steel beams, and engine blocks, we need to subject it to the digital equivalent of enforceable building codes and auto safety standards. Nothing less  do. And health? The current medical device standards  have to be even tougher, while still allowing for innovation.
The tech industry, which has long styled itself as disruptors,  need to work hand in hand with government to craft these policies. And that might be a bigger challenge than developing the technology in the first place.
Most of the work on this, especially what we and others can learn about and report about, is coming from the giant companies that make up today’s tech oligopoly — Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft.
But, as tectonic shifts like this occur in technology, oligopolies get shaken up. For instance: today, Apple is the biggest of the group. By all reports, it’s working seriously on AR, self-driving cars, and health initiatives. But its strict and admirable privacy policies make it harder for it to gather the vast amounts of data required for the best machine learning.
Microsoft is still trying to find a way to meld its formidable software and cloud expertise with a significant hardware business. The ad-based business models of Facebook and Google, now so dominant, could prove fickle. And Amazon has only had one really giant hardware hit — the Kindle — in its existence.
But, even if these oligarchs all do fine, and their ranks swell by one or two, the country and the world  have to ask if they have too much power — and, if so, how to curb it without killing progress.
We’ve all had a hell of a ride for the last few decades, no matter when you got on the roller coaster. It’s been exciting, enriching, and transformative. But it’s  been about objects and processes. Soon, after a brief slowdown, the roller coaster  be accelerating faster than ever, only this time it’ll be about actual experiences, with much less emphasis on the way those experiences get made.
As a gadget-lover, this makes me a little sad. But, as a tech believer, it’s tremendously exciting. I won’t be reviewing all the new stuff anymore, but you can bet I’ll be closely watching this next turn of the wheel.
Thanks for reading. Mossberg out.








Xiaomi’s original Mi Max smartphone was incredibly successful for the company — it says it sold over 3 million units — and it’s hoping the Mi Max 2 can bring even more people into the fold. Spotted by TechCrunch, the Mi Max 2 was announced today at an event in Beijing. It comes with a massive 5,300mAh that Xiaomi says  last two full days of use, with over 18 hours of video playback or 21 hours of GPS use.
If those numbers hold up — and that’s a big if — the Mi Max 2  truly be an impressive device. The rest of the specs for the phone look strong as well:
Xiaomi  noted that you can recharge the Mi Max 2 to 68 percent in an hour, which is pretty impressive. And, thanks to the USB port, you can use it to charge other devices as well, which could come in handy in a pinch. The Xiaomi Mi Max 2  go on sale in China on June 1st for around $247 for the 64GB, and $290 for the 128GB version.
Earlier this year we learned that Netflix was making an animated TV show based on the Castlevania video game series, but we didn’t know much about it. Now the first trailer for the series has dropped, along with the news of a July 7th release date.
Netflix’s description of the series reads, “The last surviving member of a disgraced clan fights to save Eastern Europe from Dracula.” It looks dark and very dramatic, which is surely just the thing you’re going to want to watch at the height of summer.
Microsoft is unveiling a new name for its game streaming service today. Formerly known as Beam, the service has now been rebranded Mixer. “This was a tough decision, and not one that we made lightly,” explains Matt Salsamendi, co-founder and engineering lead at Mixer. “It was something that we decided on as a team. We believe so much in the power of the platform and want to grow it in every major market around the world. Unfortunately, that wasn’t something we could do with the Beam name.”
It’s not clear if Microsoft had legal issues using the Beam name after acquiring the service in August, but it’s unusual to rebrand without a clear reason. Regardless, Microsoft is introducing some new features to its Mixer streaming service today to try and tempt gamers over from Twitch and YouTube. A new co-streaming feature lets four PC streamers combine their broadcasts into a single stream with split-screen views. Co-streaming is available on PC today, and Xbox Insiders  be able to start testing it before it rolls out more broadly to Microsoft’s console.
Microsoft is  launching new Mixer Create mobile apps for iOS and Android today. They’re available in beta, but they’ll support self-broadcasting and the ability to stream mobile games “soon.” Once mobile gameplay streaming is available you’ll be able to join co-streaming broadcasts with players on PC, console, and other mobile devices. Mixer   be used to stream Microsoft’s E3 2017 press conference on June 11th. The software maker is expected to fully unveil its Project Scorpio hardware at E3, alongside the games it plans to bring to Xbox over the course of the year.

Imzy, the friendly social network launched late last year, is shutting down. CEO Dan McComas announced the news to users yesterday, saying the company couldn’t find a niche in the market. The site  become read-only on June 16th, and it  shut down completely on June 23rd. Users can export their data if they submit a form by the 16th, and an Imzy Discord server  remain active.
“We’ve loved getting to know all of you and seeing you build communities and make new friends,” wrote McComas. “Unfortunately, we were not able to find our place in the market. We still feel that the internet deserves better and hope that we see more teams take on this challenge in the future.”
Imzy was launched out of beta in October as an alternative to free-for-all (and sometimes toxic) social sites like Reddit. People needed to join groups before posting, and Imzy’s creators said that the site would be advertising-free, funding itself through a planned payment platform that  let users “tip” each other with real money. At launch, it had about 50,000 users, with a small portion using the tipping system.
Operating without ads was a risky proposition in the first place, and Imzy didn’t get the major wave of publicity that other alternative social networks — like Ello and Mastodon — enjoyed, giving them name recognition and a distinct online niche by the time the hype faded. “Imzy was too pure for this internet,” one user lamented in response to the news.
Imzy’s shutdown parallels the recent woes of social network Voat, which was essentially Imzy’s dark twin: it was founded by people who believed Reddit should be more permissive. Last week, Voat co-creator Justin Chastain warned that the site might be shutting down due to lack of funding, and it’s currently raising money from users in hopes of staying alive.
Both Imzy and Voat were arguably indirect products of the internet culture war that started with Gamergate in 2014, which meant that part of their appeal was rooted in ideology, rather than site design or a user base with specific interests. It’s possible this made them less sustainable than other niche social networks, although similarly ideological site Gab.ai has carved out space as a far-right alternative to Facebook or Twitter. On the other hand, social networks can fail for all kinds of reasons — although Imzy’s lifespan was short indeed.
Rumors are flying that Apple is developing some kind of wearable that would continuously track the user’s blood sugar without breaking their skin. For people with diabetes, this would be a huge improvement over the somewhat invasive or downright painful options they currently rely on. But experts warn that if the rumors are true, Apple  be facing a scientific and technological battlefield littered with decades of other companies’ failures.
If Apple is chasing a needleless blood sugar monitor, it wouldn’t be that surprising. (Apple declined to comment.) After all, the market would be massive. About 30 million Americans have diabetes, a disease caused when there’s too much sugar, or glucose, in the blood. People with diabetes have to carefully titrate their food intake, or even inject the hormone insulin in order to keep their blood sugar from spiking or dropping to dangerous levels. So regularly measuring blood glucose is key.
Right now, it’s  unpleasant. People with diabetes have to prick their fingers to draw blood, or wear a monitor that inserts a tiny tube beneath their skin to continuously measure glucose in the fluid between cells (the same fluid that spills out when you pop a blister). So a needleless device — preferably one that continuously monitors glucose levels and spits them out in real time — would be a huge upgrade.
“That is the holy grail,” says Eric Topol, the director of the Scripps Translational Science Institute who  sits on the board of glucose monitor manufacturer Dexcom. And that’s why so many before Apple have made the attempt. Google tried to develop a contact lens to detect glucose in tears, but ever since pharmaceutical giant Novartis licensed the technology in 2014, the project’s gone quiet. (A spokesperson for Alcon, a division of Novartis, told The Verge in an email: “We’re working together to initiate larger clinical trials in the near future, but do not have a definitive timeline to share today.”)
“It’s an incredibly difficult problem,” says Mark Rice, an anesthesiologist and diabetes expert at Vanderbilt University. “Everybody thinks they have a way to do it, and everybody, so far, has failed.” Why? The hurdles are many — so let’s talk about a few of them.
The first problem is that there’s only about a sugar packet’s worth of glucose floating through the blood, writes expert John L. Smith in his book The Pursuit of Noninvasive Glucose: Hunting the Deceitful Turkey. So, there’s not a lot of glucose to measure from the outset. The second problem is that glucose is actually a pretty boring molecule. It’s colorless, small, and it doesn’t have many distinguishing features. That’s why the current glucose tests use a chemical reaction to convert glucose into molecules that are easier to track, either because they have a color, or because they can generate electrical currents.
These tests can be run at a clinical lab or, since the 1970s, in the comfort of your home using a glucometer. In both cases, you have to draw blood — for glucometers, this is done by pricking your finger and pressing a drop to a test strip. More recent continuous glucose monitors use a wire inserted beneath the skin that takes measurements every few minutes, and can deliver the results onto a smart device, like your phone or Apple Watch. Users still need to prick their fingers, though, to calibrate the device with the more accurate measurements from a glucometer.
In fact, both tests are not always perfectly accurate: the test strips can go off if they’re not stored correctly; common drugs like Tylenol can interfere with the chemical reaction; and microorganisms and tissue can gunk up the sensor in a continuous monitor. And that’s dangerous. Inaccurate results could drive people to take insulin when they don’t need it or miss the signs of dangerously low blood sugar — which can lead to coma or even death.
The problem with a device like Google’s contact lens is that the body likes to hold on to sugar. Sure, if blood sugar levels are too high, glucose  spill over into tears, spit, sweat, or urine. (In the 1600s, a physician who taste-tested diabetic pee reported that it was "wonderfully sweet as if it were imbued with honey or sugar.") But as blood sugar levels drop, the body holds on to this precious source of energy and stops leaking it into other fluids. This dooms the prospects of monitoring glucose from the bodily fluids you can access without puncturing the skin.
Some have tried to get to that blister-filling liquid under the skin without using a needle. In the early 2000s, the FDA approved a device called the GlucoWatch. It used a low electrical current to draw glucose right out of the body, where it was measured by sensors on the back of a tight-fitting watch.
The problem was that the device was a pain to use: it caused a bad rash underneath the watch for 80 percent of the people who used it, according to an evaluation by ECRI Institute, a nonprofit research organization. It  took three hours to warm up before it could take a measurement; people with hairy arms needed to shave a clear patch for the sensor; and it didn’t work if the user got too sweaty. (This last one is a big design flaw, because sweatiness can be a symptom of dangerous drops in blood sugar.) The GlucoWatch is no longer on the market.
Technically yes, but again, it’s hard — right now, there aren’t any FDA-approved noninvasive glucose trackers. The two main methods attempted so far have been unsuccessful. One way to measure glucose through the skin is to monitor something that changes as result of blood sugar fluctuations — like how much light reflects off of your skin, for example. If you eat lots of sugar, your skin  get warmer or it might get shinier, Rice says. So you could theoretically have a device that monitors these physiological changes.
The problem is that plenty of other molecules can  cause these changes. And so measurements wouldn’t be very reliable day to day. “There are many technologies that correlate with glucose going up and down — and that’s how everybody gets fooled,” Rice says.
Another more direct approach is to measure how much light the actual glucose molecules either scatter or absorb to figure out how much is in the blood. “There are thousands of patent applications to do this,” Rice says. He admits: “Some are mine.”
So, for example, you could have a device that shines a near-infrared light through a thinner region of skin, like an earlobe, and measure the wavelengths that come out the other side. But the problem is that glucose is just one tiny, nondescript component of the complex chemical makeup of human tissue. So the main challenge with getting this method to work has been pulling glucose’s signal out of all the other molecular background noise.
“That’s the whole secret,” says analytical chemist Mark Arnold at the University of Iowa, who has been working on this method in his lab. And he seems to have figured it out — at least, on rat skin. There’s only one problem with the setup: “It’s about the size of a small refrigerator,” he says. “Not a device that could work on somebody’s wrist.”
Even if Apple settles on a strategy that somehow manages to noninvasively bypass the skin’s barrier, even if it develops a device that reliably and accurately measures blood glucose — there’s still the hurdle of FDA approval. “It’s very different to be a medical device manufacturer than a consumer product manufacturer,” says Brad Bonnette, a medical device evaluator at ECRI Institute. “They could certainly do it, but it would be a pretty big change.”
A noninvasive glucose monitor would probably fall into the category of a Class III medical device, Bonnette says. That’s reserved for products unlike anything else on the market that could seriously harm a patient if they failed. And it requires that a company get what’s called pre-market approval, a process that can take years.
Then, once the device is on the market, there are still challenges to overcome. Bonnette guesses that a noninvasive monitor would initially only be available with a prescription. So that means that the company making the device  need to convince insurers to pay for it. “You’d have to prove to the insurers that it’s worth doing,” Bonnette says.
So it might be worth it for Apple, or any other company entering this space, to consider the lesson of the GlucoWatch. “It’s not enough to get past all of these hurdles, to still be able to make money and have a successful device,” he says. “You can get it to market, and still not stick.”
Readdle is a developer known for its productivity apps like Documents, PDF Expert, Scanner Pro, and Spark. Today the company announced an interesting update to those apps, which adds the same kind of drag-and-drop features for managing files on a traditional desktop computer to its iPad apps.
The drag-and-drop function works between Readdle’s own apps while running in split screen, but it’s pretty neatly done. Files can be dragged from Documents straight into an email in Spark, or a PDF that your boss sent to you can be dropped into PDF Expert to edit before you send it back.
Unfortunately, the drag-and-drop features only work between Readdle’s apps. So if you use, say, Outlook for email, you’re stuck attaching things the old-fashioned way (which on iOS, can sometimes be a bit of a pain). As a whole, the implementation really does feel like the sort of thing that would be great for Apple to implement on an OS level, especially as the company continues to push the iPad as a productivity tool.
Coincidentally, MacStories recently mocked up a concept of its iOS 11 wish list, which largely centered around imagining exactly this sort of feature, so there’s definitely some demand out there for something like this.
Readdle  released a new version of Documents today alongside the drag-and-drop update, which adds a new design, better media features, and the option to edit documents stored in the cloud without downloading them first.
The drag-and-drop update (along with the new version of Documents) should be rolling out to the App Store today.
When Wolfgang Hammer talks about the future of entertainment, people listen. Hammer is the mastermind behind the American reboot of House of Cards, the guy with the unlikely idea of bringing together David Fincher and a forgotten BBC series. He oversaw two of CBS Films’ first prestige movies: the Coen brothers’ Inside Llewyn Davis and Martin McDonagh’s Seven Psychopaths. He’s had a charmed career: leap-frogging from a master’s degree at Stanford to an entry-level job at Media Rights Capital to eventually becoming the president of CBS’s fledgling films division.
So when Hammer came to Turner with an ambitious concept, the cable giant was ing to entertain it. Turner owns TBS, TNT, CNN, and Cartoon Network, but what Hammer was proposing was something altogether different: an all-in-one production company that would thrive online and pretty much do whatever it wanted. Now 18 months old, Super Deluxe is being nurtured with a reliable budget and total creative freedom, and it’s given Hammer the opportunity to play fairy godmother, granting wishes for creators who want to make interesting, innovative art. Super Deluxe isn’t a traditional production company, media company, or art house, but it is a go-between for young talent who have struggled to break the bubble around the Hollywood institutions that can launch stars.
Over a series of phone interviews, Hammer declined to divulge how much money Super Deluxe gets from Turner. Hammer says they don’t have an annual budget from Turner — just a “pot of money” that gets replenished if they do well.
And if they don’t? “Well, then we’re out of luck, and there’s no more Super Deluxe.”
In the meantime, Hammer’s ambitions are grand — and he wields the power and jargon to match. He brushes off an employee’s comparison to Walt Disney, but says, “If you want to say that we aspire to be vertically integrated like the largest entertainment company the world has ever seen… that’s probably true.” He wants to make apps, games, merch, documentaries, viral videos, Instagram stars, his own technology for Facebook Live, and, most importantly, as many of the 50 original TV shows his team has been developing as possible.
The looming question now is whether Hammer can bring all these pieces together into a package that appeals to a large audience. With the recent sale of Super Deluxe’s first big television show The Chances, it’s almost time to find out.
You may not have heard of Super Deluxe, but if you’re part of the demographic that spends its days online, you’ve likely seen its work. Super Deluxe is the force behind some of last year’s greatest internet hoaxes and the weirdest diced-up video edits of the dystopian circus that was the 2016 election. In the last 18 months, the studio produced dozens of scripts for TV comedies, 8-bit video games based on memes, and a Facebook Live video that got pulled for nudity. They’re the specter behind the web magazine Extremely Good Shit and the multi-platform juggernaut Joanne the Scammer. Most recently, they’ve worked with YouTube and Instagram stars like Poppy, Bread Face, and @ScorpionDagger. Their creative director, former Vice editor-in-chief Jesse Pearson, is big on DIY videos — teaching valuable skills like how to give yourself a stick-and-poke tattoo or build your own gravity bong.
Hammer says Super Deluxe is averse to “noise,” but their content belies that assertion, both figuratively and literally: they made the easy Oscars Best Picture fuck-up remix just like everyone else; their go-to sound effects are literally air horns and screams. A lot of the political humor that doesn’t come from fan-fave contributor Vic Berger is gallows-y in a way that can feel cheap, even market-tested, leaning hard on the internet’s favorite mode of speaking — existential dread and off-hand quips about doomsday. Sometimes Super Deluxe can feel like a play for counterculture street cred at a time when the counterculture isn’t that fringe.
You almost certainly haven’t seen the other half of the company. At Sundance in January, it debuted a documentary about Martin Luther King Jr. speechwriter Bayard Rustin, alongside a four-minute viral video about a teen’s friendship with a wild deer. Super Deluxe  premiered The Chances, a concept that the company’s VP of original programming, Winnie Kemp, stumbled across on Kickstarter; it’s now in production as a half-hour TV show. The Chances is the first show to star deaf characters written by deaf writers and played by deaf actors. Its creators, Shoshannah Stern and Josh Feldman, are completely unknown as showrunners.
Super Deluxe is everywhere and nowhere, taking credit for things when they feel like it, eschewing it if it seems like it’ll be more fun that way. Sometimes Super Deluxe even goes out of its way to obfuscate its involvement, like it did when its tech team spurred the short-lived rumor that Drake and Rihanna were about to drop a collaborative album by launching drakeandrihanna.com. According to Hammer, there’s no reason all these seemingly unrelated projects shouldn’t exist side by side — there’s no brand identity more compelling than “complete creative freedom.”
To build that brand, Hammer borrowed a little bit of something old. The original incarnation of Super Deluxe, born in 2007 and scrapped in 2008, was a slightly edgier and way less popular Funny or Die, with comedy talent borrowed from Turner’s Adult Swim. When Hammer presented his untitled business plan, he asked if he could revive the name, knowing that most of the audience he planned to court would likely never have heard of the original: “We thought the name was timeless and if we did our jobs right, would eventually become an adjective.”
Super Deluxe now has a staff of 120 full-time employees, tasked with turning a number of well-intentioned oddball web experiments into a financially viable commodity. The studio is leveling up: it recently added former Vice sales executive Thomas Nolan to lead an ad sales team, and it’s planning on taking more shows to market throughout the year. This fall, Super Deluxe  be taking over a 90-minute late-night programming block on TBS.
In the old model of self-made online success, the only way to make money was to make a lot of free content for indifferent platforms like YouTube and Twitter, accrue followers, then hope and pray that someone would grant you a book deal or a part in a commercial. You could have millions of fans and still subsist on Top Ramen. That model treats raw talent like fuel, and inevitably, fuels get burned. Across the board, YouTube personalities disappear far more often than they transition into stable stardom.
Super Deluxe isn’t the first to consider paying young people to do the stuff they’re already doing for free. Plenty of others have tried to do the same, operating under the assumption that throwing money at a rising internet star is enough to jumpstart success and mass appeal. But a big budget doesn’t erase skeletons from the closet, nor can it structure a series-length story around a character that shines in five-minute YouTube videos. PewDiePie’s Disney deal imploded in February, partly the result of his flippant, detached attitude toward the Holocaust, while YouTube star Miranda Sings’ disappointing Netflix show last year was bloated and clearly lacked a savvy editor in the writers’ room.
Companies built specifically to exploit internet talent haven’t fared much better — experiments like DreamWorks’ AwesomenessTV, Verizon’s Go90, and even YouTube’s own premium service have fallen short of expectations for one reason or another. Other, more successful, networks of YouTube creators have been gobbled up by corporations: Warner Bros. acquired Machinima’s loose network of gaming vloggers last year, folding all of its content into AT&T’s purview and angling for better promo for its DC Comics properties. Disney acquired Maker, along with most of its management, in 2014. A year later, power struggles between the YouTube network and Disney’s corporate megastructure was already leading to layoffs and deflated expectations.
Only a few “creators” have managed to truly break through, unaltered — the remarkably driven Hannah Hart, the creator of “My Drunk Kitchen”; or the Fine Brothers, who maintain a YouTube channel with 15 million subscribers and managed to launch their own production company.
Super Deluxe has a new approach, one it thinks supports creatives and simultaneously holds corporate influence at arm’s length.
Kemp explains Super Deluxe’s role in the entertainment industry in buzzy startup terms: “We’re almost like an incubator. We’re able to help [young creators] preserve what they want to make and present it in a way that makes bigger companies feel confident that the execution and the creative is all going to be there when we make it.” Translated: Super Deluxe gives these creators experienced production teams, the resource of their enormous industry network, notes on their drafts, and yeah, space and time and money.
Their crown jewel is Branden Miller’s Joanne the Scammer, a self-described “messy bitch who lives for drama” who was discovered, of all places, on Instagram by the company’s then-social media manager Jason Richards. Miller says when he and Wolfgang Hammer met for the first time, Hammer told him, alternately, “You’re going to be a star” and “You’re already a star.” Miller signed on for three videos as Joanne; less than a year later, he landed a cover story in The Fader. Now he’s working with Super Deluxe to put together a half-hour comedy series to pitch for TV and churning out increasingly elaborate short films. He has an app and merch — he’s one of the most diversely monetized internet creators currently working. But in his Fader story he was careful to point out how fragile that is: “[People] know my past and they don’t feel that I’m worthy of being verified or talking to celebrities. I have to be funny at all times. If I say something not funny, the one thing — they don’t give me a second chance. I’m cancelled.”
Before The Chances, Super Deluxe had only sold one show in development — Magic Funhouse, a raunchy half-hour comedy about a drug-addled kids’ TV show host that scored two seasons with the AT&T-owned YouTube network and digital content distributor Fullscreen. That’s a sale Kemp and Hammer are proud of. But Sundance Now is a whole other ballgame, a full-blown TV service you can subscribe to through Amazon. The Chances  be that service’s first original scripted series.
When Kemp first met with Stern and Feldman, she and her team were so impressed by their ideas and commitment that they offered to fund the web series on the spot. Once signed, Kemp surrounded the creators with a production team, director Anna Kerrigan, a consultant from the Deaf West theater company, and her team’s help selling the series for television.
Watching the series’s shorts, it’s easy to see why Kemp found The Chances so exciting, as well as how much work there still is to do. Stern and Feldman play best friends navigating bizarre, incredibly specific situations, from a UTI that causes Stern’s character to pee at the table at her anniversary dinner, to an episode about clunky movie theater closed captioning devices, to a tender take on the “someone accidentally got super high” comedy trope. There’s not much there in the way of an overarching story, but the ease between the two leads, and the confidence of the writing, is obvious. It’s reminiscent of the early YouTube shorts that eventually became Broad City — little in the way of plot, but the characters are golden, and obviously belong together.
To rebuild the show as a half-hour drama, Stern and Feldman started from scratch, sending episode drafts to Kemp for notes before polishing them up and submitting them to the Sundance team. Super Deluxe  hire producers and a director, but Feldman and Stern  still write every episode themselves — just like they would have done if Super Deluxe had never come along. When it comes to the script, the company plays support. Kemp recognizes that Super Deluxe’s primary role in the next few months  be in maturing Stern and Feldman as writers: guiding them through the process of constructing a TV show with several storylines, developing more interesting side characters, and spinning up satisfying narrative arcs.
The Chances is an opportunity for Super Deluxe to prove that its soul is really where Hammer and Kemp and Pearson insist it is. “We’re always looking for fresh and unique perspectives, from Vic Berger to Joanne,” says Kemp. “We always bring it back to ‘What does this particular creator have to say? How is it going to ripple through the society at large, and hopefully make some kind of impact or be a point of conversation?’ I just feel like that’s the spirit of everything that the company is making, at its core.”
Pearson echoes her, saying, “It’s kind of finding the right voices and tone and then letting them do what they do rather than mediating or editorializing too much on what they do… I’ve always leaned toward the voice that speaks in the margins, because I believe that’s where the future is made.” Hammer takes it even further: “This idea that you have pieces like [The Chances] living next to some of the pieces we make for Live or Snapchat or YouTube — that breadth is unparalleled. It doesn’t exist. You can’t point to a company in the entertainment space that does that. And that’s what’s exciting about Super Deluxe.”
When The Chances premieres next year, Stern and Feldman have a pretty good idea of who  watch it: “What  make our show so relatable is that everyone can understand how it feels to be on the outside looking in, wanting to be a part of something.”
But The Chances won’t premiere until early next year, and in the meantime Super Deluxe has to shop its other shows around and hedge its bets.
They’re doing that with an ever-widening roster of YouTube videos, Facebook Live interactive stunts, apps, mobile games, an aggressively irreverent social media presence, and, of course, a go at an Adult Swim-esque TBS late-night block.
Facebook Live is a venue where Super Deluxe excels. The tech team, led by CTO Shahruz Shaukat, has built its own box of tools that supplement what Facebook provides, allowing them to make their shows far more interactive than videos made by most other brands. Viewers can collaboratively punch a Nazi, assemble a taco, or decide which celebrities  get a visit from a stop-motion Grim Reaper in 2017. Pearson says Facebook Live’s “punk rock” energy appeals to him — “It’s chaotic, it’s spontaneous, it’s like walking a tightwire. It ties back to the early days of television in some ways.” It’s  an opportunity: a product owned and supported by what is inarguably the most powerful content distributor in history, and one that not many people know what to do with it yet. They recently put together a Choose Your Own Adventure telenovela purely dictated by audience input on Live, a concept novel enough to get picked up by dozens of internet culture blogs. These videos rack up hundreds of thousands or sometimes millions of views, which makes Super Deluxe the platform’s biggest star.
Kevin Reilly, the chief creative officer of Turner Entertainment says he’s proud of the work Super Deluxe has done so far, explaining, “We started Super Deluxe to create unique experiences for a discerning consumer of video on social.” It has obviously done that. On the other hand, Richard Greenfield, a media and tech analyst at the investment firm BTIG, told me he was impressed by what Super Deluxe is attempting. But, bottom line: “There’s no clear path to Super Deluxe making billions of dollars. Most of the traditional media companies make tens of billions of dollars.”
That’s not to say Super Deluxe can’t be successful. Their advertising business is just getting off the ground, and they’ve got the audience everyone wants. Though it might seem risky building infrastructure around untested talent, the process is ultimately pretty lean. And having total editorial independence from their principal benefactor gives Super Deluxe the freedom to avoid the standard pitfalls of entertainment production — costly rewrites, staffing change-ups, projects killed on the vine, ideas that get bloated and rendered amorphous by a cacophony of contributing voices. Everyone who works there prides themselves on speed, and saving young talent from development hell.
If Super Deluxe is the future of entertainment, it’s because it isn’t much like a TV channel or a media company. It’s more like a tool for supporting inexperienced talent in a entertainment world that’s been stuck in its ways. Being on every single platform at once makes Super Deluxe as multi-functional as a Swiss army knife. It can serve as a translator between two parties — the amateurs of the internet and the stubborn pros of Hollywood — who are constantly dancing around each other. That idea courses through every single thing Super Deluxe produces. The studio  bring Joanne the Scammer, an Instagram star, to TV. It took a viral homemade documentary to Sundance. It intends to monetize Facebook Live by throwing together young talent and unique tech on a rickety, bare-bones platform. Super Deluxe’s hustle mimics that of the stars it hopes to create — success could be anywhere, so you might as well try everything.
Correction: A previous version of this article listed two films “produced” by Wolfgang Hammer at CBS Films. He oversaw their production as co-president.
Alto, the customizable email app from AOL, is getting more advanced today with the addition of a built-in calendar. The calendar  show any entries it can pull in from whatever calendars you might already be using (Google, Yahoo, Apple, and so on) and then add on top any events it can find by looking at your inbox. That includes flights, restaurant reservations, package deliveries, and anything else the app can pick out.
It’s a smart addition that could really appeal to email power users, and it helps to position Alto as a better competitor to Microsoft’s mobile Outlook app, which has calendar features built by the team behind the much-loved Sunrise. Alto works with a wide range of email providers — including Gmail, Yahoo, iCloud, Outlook, and, of course, AOL — so its smart inbox features aren’t limited to a subset of people, as is the case with Google’s Inbox app.
Getting to Alto’s calendar is a little bit weird and requires pressing two tiny buttons. That’s because the calendar is technically a secondary view for the app’s “dashboard,” which displays cards representing events, deals, deliveries, and other info it’s pulled out of your inbox. Going into the calendar mode then turns all of those items into calendar entries, which appear alongside everything else in the calendars linked to your email addresses.
Right now, there’s only an agenda view, so it’s really best for people who just want a glance at the day ahead. In the future, the team says it plans to let users pull up a different calendar view by going into landscape mode, and they seem to recognize that calendar users expect to be able to use whatever view mode is already their favorite.
I don’t personally like having my calendar inside my email app — I’d rather have the two be separate, so the calendar always defaults to showing me... you know, the calendar. But the app combination is clearly something some people enjoy, and it’s one of the big reasons that Outlook stands out right now. Alto is already a fairly customizable app, and this addition could help it go a step further in appealing to users who really like to tinker with their email setup.
In addition to releasing its calendar feature today, Alto is  finally getting the Alexa integration that was promised back in December. You’ll be able to use it to check calendar entries and other events that Alto has pulled out from your inbox.
Alto wouldn’t share how many people are currently using its app. But the team said it’s serving “millions of mailboxes” and pointed to Google Play’s install figures, which show between 500,000 and 1 million installs on Android. That range doesn’t represent active users, however.
Oh, and in a bit of mixed news, it turns out Alto  soon part ways with AOL. Instead, it’ll be part of Oath.
It's been a long time coming but Belkin is almost ready to rollout Apple HomeKit support for its WeMo smart home gear. Belkin just announced the WeMo Bridge for HomeKit that it says  bring HomeKit compatibility to over 2 million WeMo solutions on the market. Owners of the Bridge  be able to interact with WeMo devices using Siri and interact with them in scenes and rooms that include other HomeKit-compatible devices.
The WeMo Bridge connects to your router over Ethernet and then uses your home's Wi-Fi to interact with Siri-enabled devices like iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches. The WeMo Bridge for HomeKit is expected to ship in the fall. Though pricing hasn't been set, one would hope that Belkin follows the precedent set by Philips Hue and initially offer the Bridge at a discount to existing WeMo owners.
Belkin said that it would support HomeKit way back in 2015, the year Apple's home automation initiative was first announced. A year later, it would put those plans on hold citing difficulties in complying with Apple's strenuous requirements. In a Facebook post since removed, Belkin said it would have to put new chips in every WeMo device. The solution it turns out, was to put the Apple-required silicon and software into a central bridge — something Philips successfully figured out two years ago.
T-Mobile is announcing today that its Digits service, which has been in beta testing since late last year,  be available to all of its customers starting next Wednesday, May 31st. Digits allows T-Mobile customers to synchronize multiple phones, tablets, computers, smartwatches, and other devices to their phone numbers, similar to how Google’s Voice service works. The service  allows multiple numbers to be used with a single device, eliminating the need to carry multiple phones for personal and work needs.
Digits users can send text messages from their tablet or PC and have them appear as if they came from their phone. T-Mobile says that the service can allow families to have a shared phone number that rings all of their devices, no matter where they are. Or a second Digits number can be used as a burner line for when sharing your main phone number isn’t appropriate or safe.
Digits works with any Android or iOS device. The messaging service can be accessed on any device with a Chrome or Firefox browser, and the company provides apps for Android, iOS, Mac, and Windows that support it. Recent Samsung phones and the LG G5 have native integration for Digits in their existing dialers — other devices, such as the iPhone,  have to use the Digits app to place phone calls and manage their Digits lines. Messages sent through iMessage  not be synced to the Digits service.
T-Mobile says that during the beta test of the service, most customers used the ability to message from their PCs and tablets, while some found the ability to ring multiple devices with one number useful. Calls placed with the service use T-Mobile’s VoLTE and circuit-switched networks, which are the same as any other phone call, and do not rely on over-the-top data connections like other messaging apps do.
T-Mobile is offering the service on all of its existing lines for free. Additional Digits lines are available for $10 per month, though for a limited time, customers that subscribe to T-Mobile One Plus  get an extra Digits line at no additional cost.

A ton of things happened at Google I/O, but somehow the biggest news from last week was never even mentioned onstage: the latest version of Android  kill the blob-style emoji and replace them with circular ones that are more consistent with those from iOS, Twitter, Facebook, Samsung, and more.
Many people, including some of us here at The Verge, said this was long overdue. But I say nay! To me, this is A Very Bad Move.
As I briefly said in last week’s episode of The Vergecast, I adore the blob emoji because they’re cute, unique, and show a lot of personality and expressiveness. While we can argue about the cons of Android fragmentation, one of the many reasons I like Android is because you actually have so many options to show individuality with the phone you use. I remember when I was in high school during the pre-iPhone years, there were tons of different cellphones to choose — from the ubiquitous Motorola Razr to the music-centric Sony Ericsson Walkman to the QWERTY keyboard Sidekick. Like our clothing choices and brand loyalties, our smartphone makes a statement about who we are.
And though it’s true that a lack of standard emoji across the web means messages can get lost in visual translation, for me, that’s not how I necessarily see or use emoji. When I type in an emoji during a conversation, it’s not because I want the receiver to “see” how I’m feeling — it’s because that’s how I see myself in the context of that message.
Take the sweat drop face emoji for example. This is one I use often (don’t ask) to emote nervousness, but now the Android O version looks legitimately ill, and much sadder than its iOS counterpart.
The kissing face is another I use often. I love the blob version of this emoji because even the little arch from Android 4.4 reminds me of myself — a short, petite person who has to literally arch and tilt my head up to give my significant other a kiss.
Same with the weary face emoji and the way it literally droops down and shows tiredness.
Beyond that, aesthetically, the flat colors on the emoji look great. I don’t need emoji to look realistic or multi-dimensional. (In fact, I think most of the new ones look super dated and generic.) I just want them to be pleasing and cute to the eye, which Android O’s versions are not. Look at what they did to the poor bunny emoji!
@eli_schiff IT GETS WORSE pic.twitter.com/2Rj6MPZl9r
What happened to the ears!?!? It looks like a bear got thrown in a tub of bleach and is now pretending to be who it’s not.
It is admittedly strange how attached we can get with what’s really just a bunch of glyphs, but the fact that they virtually represent us is why the people who love them are so crushed to see them go. Why can’t we continue to be a bunch of goofy, misfit-looking blobs? Wasn’t it you, Google, who said to be together, not the same?
You’re the company that, by some strange fate, brought us this emoji:
Own the weird.
All my blob lovers say it with me: I’m one with the blob, the blob is me ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ.
HTC is unveiling a new VR headset today, designed to work with the company’s latest U11 smartphone. The new HTC Link includes six degrees-of-freedom tracking, a first for a smartphone-based VR headset, and appears to use an external camera sensor to track its motion controllers with lights (much like Sony’s PlayStation VR). UploadVR reports that both the camera and controllers are bundled in the box, but that the HTC Link  only be available in Japan.
While the Link is designed for the U11, the VR headset includes two 3.6-inch 1080 x 1200 LCD displays with a 110 degree field of view and support for 90Hz refresh rate. That means the U11’s display won’t be housed within the Link headset itself, and both devices connect via a USB-C cable. It’s not clear why HTC is limiting this to just the Japanese market, but the company is not using the Vive branding on this particular device.
HTC’s new Link device comes just days after Google revealed it’s partnering with manufacturers like HTC and Lenovo to launch standalone VR headsets. HTC plans to release the Link VR headset in late July, but pricing has not yet been announced.
Aerospace startup Rocket Lab launched its experimental Electron rocket for the first time from New Zealand today — marking the first of three test flights the company hopes to do this year before the vehicle begins commercial launches. While the rocket successfully made it to space three minutes after take off, it “didn’t quite reach orbit” as planned, according to Rocket Lab’s CEO, Peter Beck. The company  be investigating why and  aim for the Electron to get to orbit during its second test flight.
“Reaching space in our first test puts us in an incredibly strong position to accelerate the commercial phase of our program, deliver our customers to orbit, and make space open for business,” Beck said in a statement.
Based in California and New Zealand, Rocket Lab has been developing the Electron rocket for the last four years now. What sets the vehicle apart from other orbital rockets in operation is its size. The Electron is just 55 feet high, making it much tinier than other commercial orbital vehicles like SpaceX’s Falcon 9 or the United Launch Alliance’s Atlas V, which tower above 200 feet. That’s because the Electron is squarely aimed at capitalizing on the small satellite market, by sending satellites weighing up to 500 pounds pounds into lower Earth orbit.
#ItsaTest pic.twitter.com/KRo1iBB1wK
Rocket Lab hasn’t just been developing a rocket to achieve this goal, but has  been building an entirely new launch site for the vehicle. The company has its own private launch pad on the Mahia Peninsula in New Zealand, optimized for launching satellites into various lower Earth orbit configurations. Today’s launch, which took off at 12:20AM ET, was the first time a rocket designed to achieve orbit has ever flown out of New Zealand. And it was a good sign that the launch infrastructure that Rocket Lab has built  support flights moving forward.
Additionally, it seems that many of the components on the Electron worked as expected. The main engine burn went as planned, as did stage separation and the separation of the nose cone that encases the payload, according to Beck. The second stage engine, meant to propel the satellite into its intended orbit, had a “great” ignition too. For now, it’s unclear why the vehicle didn’t make it to orbit. Fortunately, the vehicle, aptly named “It’s a Test,” carried numerous sensors which gathered more than 25,000 channels of data. Rocket Lab’s engineers in Los Angeles and New Zealand plan to go through this information to figure out how the Electron can achieve orbit next time.
Space - as seen by Electron. #ItsaTest pic.twitter.com/JR2RlZuLFp
“We have learnt so much through this test launch and  learn even more in the weeks to come,” said Beck. “We’re committed to making space accessible and this is a phenomenal milestone in that journey.”
Indeed, enthusiasm for Rocket Lab’s services seems to be high — and that may have to do with some attractive pricing. The company hopes to sell its launches for as low as $4.9 million per flight. That could present a more attractive option to small satellite operators who don’t want to hitch a ride on larger orbital flights that costs tens to hundreds of millions of dollars to fly.
For now, at least, Rocket Lab already boasts some impressive customers. NASA has a launch contract with the company to send a small payload into lower Earth orbit on the Electron. Meanwhile, California-based company Moon Express, a contender in the Google Lunar X Prize, has booked three Electron rides to help ensure that its lunar lander  get to the Moon’s surface — hopefully before the competition’s deadline by the end of the year. Beyond that, many small satellite operators have been booking Electron rides, and Rocket Lab says it already has a nearly full manifest for this year and next.




AlphaGo has again defeated Ke Jie, the world’s number one Go player, in their second game, meaning the AI has secured victory in the three-part match. The win over Ke, universally considered the best Go player in the world, essentially confirms that AlphaGo has surpassed human Go ability a little over a year after the AI first beat Lee Se-dol.
Ke played “perfectly” for about the first 50 moves, according to AlphaGo’s analysis, and evolved his strategy to engage in a series of complex battles across the board. But AlphaGo handled the multi-angled assault well to simplify the engrossing game and eventually forced Ke to resign. “For the first 100 moves it was the closest we’ve ever seen anyone play against the Master version of AlphaGo,” DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis said in the post-game press conference.
“Today’s game was different from the first,” Ke said. “AlphaGo made some moves which were opposite from my vision of how to maximize the possibility of winning. I  thought I was very close to winning the game in the middle but maybe that’s not what AlphaGo was thinking. I’m a little bit sad, it’s a bit of a regret because I think I played pretty well.”
#AlphaGo wins game 2. What an amazing and complex game! Ke Jie pushed AlphaGo right to the limit.
Developed by DeepMind, the British company acquired by Google in 2014, the AlphaGo AI uses machine learning and neural networks to analyze its probability of winning and pick moves that are likely to lead to success. Until AlphaGo beat Lee, solving the ancient Chinese board game of Go had long been a north star for computer scientists due to its unparalleled complexity and huge number of potential moves. DeepMind’s success came decades earlier than many had predicted, and the new Master version of AlphaGo is more powerful still.
Ke and AlphaGo are facing off as part of the Future of Go Summit being held by Google in Wuzhen, China this week. The final game  be on Saturday, while Friday  see AlphaGo further put to the test in two stipulation matches; one where it acts as a teammate to two Chinese pros playing each other, and another where it takes on five Chinese pros all at once.
Taiwanese company Gogoro is rolling out an all-new electric scooter called the Gogoro 2 Smartscooter. But instead of the futuristic look that turned so many heads when the company came out of stealth at CES 2015, Gogoro is trying to put a modern spin on the classic scooter look with the Gogoro 2.
The company  start selling the new scooter this summer in Taiwan, and it says it  be available “in other markets by the end of 2017.” (Though it wouldn’t say whether that means it  sell the Gogoro 2 in other markets or if that means the scooter  be added to the company’s scooter sharing fleets in Berlin and Paris.) It  cost NT$38,800 ($1,295 USD) and comes in six colors — white, grey, orange, blue, yellow, and red.
What’s wild about that price tag is that the Gogoro 2 matches its predecessor almost exactly on performance, thanks to a new and more efficient 6.4 kilowatt motor. It can go 0-50 km/hr in 4.3 seconds, has a top speed of 90 km/hr (about 55 miles per hour), and a 110km range (about 68 miles) — all nearly identical to the first Smartscooter’s benchmarks. (Gogoro sells a more performance-minded version of the original called the Gogoro S.)
In addition, the company updated just about everything else on the scooter. It’s launching with a revamped version of the scooter’s mobile app, supports biometric security technology (including TouchID), has a full-color LED panel between the handlebars now, and comes with a brighter LED headlamp. It  has more storage and can accommodate a passenger this time around.
The new Smartscooter is powered by the same swappable batteries that helped the company stand out in the first place. But while they’re more slick and convenient than plug-in charging, it  might be what’s holding Gogoro back from expanding into other countries (beyond just scooter sharing). Infrastructure is expensive, and requires a lot of cooperation from local governments. Plans to sell the scooters in Amsterdam, for instance, have been on hold since 2016.
But there is some hope — Gogoro says it plans to add 500 more battery stations to the network of 350 that already exists in Taiwan. If it can prove out a way to rapidly build battery infrastructure, maybe Gogoro can become a new source of electric transportation around the world. It’s obviously already figured out the scooter part.

TV series are shaped by the format of TV network programming — half-hour or one-hour blocks, with or without space for commercial breaks, depending on the network. But more and more people are watching them on mobile phones and tablets, while TV companies are becoming more and more closely intertwined with mobile carriers. So what does the marriage of TV and smartphone look like? AT&T’s CEO Randall Stephenson offered some hints in a speech this week.
At JPMorgan’s Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference, Stephenson spoke of curating “premium content ... uniquely for a mobile environment” as a new way to make money, now that AT&T is close to merging with massive media company Time Warner. “It  cause [Richard] Plepler at HBO to panic when I say this, but can you begin to think about things like Game of Thrones as an example, where in a mobile environment a 60-minute episode may not be the best experience, should you think about 20-minute episodes?”
Stephenson later made clear that while Time Warner-owned HBO  be tied to AT&T after the merger, “You can't think about taking Game of Thrones and [only making] it available to AT&T customers, that's crazy.” Instead, if you “do things uniquely with Game of Thrones for your mobile environment, where you have the ability to innovate faster ... and if the fast innovation creates a unique experience in your environment, you're probably going to want to make that available later to other providers as well.”
It’s possible to look at these statements as AT&T mulling something between traditional TV streaming and a service like Verizon’s Go90, which produced custom content tailored for mobile video. (Granted, Go90 was a bit of a disaster.) That said, Stephenson is only making vague suggestions. For Game of Thrones, we could be talking about cut-down “highlight reels,” episodes that have simply been split into more parts, or something else. But now that media companies are so close to mobile distribution channels, it’s worth at least thinking about what the future of TV on your phone might hold.
Netflix is becoming a comedy juggernaut, showing just how much the network has grown compared to its competition. Variety reports that the company is working with Ellen DeGeneres for a standup special. The effort would be DeGeneres’ first special in 15 years, and adds fuel to the argument that Netflix is now the new go-to for top-tier comics.
“It has been 15 years since I did a stand-up special. 15 years,” DeGeneres said in an official statement. “And I’m writing it now, I can’t wait. I’ll keep you posted when and where I’m gonna shoot my Netflix special. I’m excited to do it; I’m excited for you to see it.”
Today’s announcement was teased by two cryptic tweets sent earlier this afternoon:
Looks like it's been 15 years since you did a stand-up special, @TheEllenShow. How about one for Netflix?
Let me think about it. Ok I'm in. https://t.co/kUAdHyXAjS
Deadline assumes that deal for the special is in the $40 million range, roughly the same amount paid out to major stars Chris Rock, Dave Chappelle, and Jerry Seinfeld.
That DeGeneres is returning to standup comedy at all is significant. Her last special was HBO’s Ellen DeGeneres: Here and Now, which aired in 2003 and earned multiple Emmy nominations. Since then, the comedian has worked on her award-winning daytime talk show and done voice-acting for Pixar’s Finding Nemo and Finding Dory.
However, Netflix is clearly bullish on working with top comedy talent, announcing special after special at a stunning pace. In addition to the likes of Rock and Seinfeld, the company recently released specials for Louis C.K. and The Daily Show’s Hasan Minhaj. And at a time when it’s betting big on bigger and riskier projects, like Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, working with Ellen DeGeneres shows Netflix looking to grow bigger and faster than its competition.
There are lots of drones out there that can do all sorts of things like fly around, take pictures and video, or even lift a human. But how many can swim?
Meet the Splash Drone 3, the latest drone from SwellPro. It’s fully waterproof, and while it can’t quite swim, it can float, which is pretty neat. It’s actually an updated edition of the original Splash Drone, which the company released two years ago, but this model adds a redesigned gimbal with a new 4K camera, stronger motors, and an improved flight controller. SwellPro launched a Kickstarter campaign for the device launched this week, and it’s already raked in quite a few orders.
The Splash Drone 3 comes in two models — the Auto, which can be controlled by a mobile app, offers a “follow me” feature, and the aforementioned gimbal system with a 4K camera; and the Fisherman, which has a fixed camera, but offers the ability to carry an item up to 2.5 pounds and release it remotely. (In a fishing setting, SwellPro imagines using it to drop bait or fly a life vest to someone.)
While the bright orange color scheme may give the Splash Drone 3 a toy-like appearance, it’s meant to be serious hardware with an equally serious price tag: early-bird pricing starts at at $1,149 for the Fisherman (estimated to ship in August) and $1,399 for the Auto (estimated to ship in July). Despite the crowdfunded nature of the project, SwellPro is an existing company with a history of actually selling drones, which should help assuage Kickstarter doubts. That said, always use your best judgement when backing.
Science fiction never had a problem with plopping magical floating orb robots into a scene. But now that real drones exist, it's become fashionable to put real-ish drones into sci-fi movies, books, and video games whenever the writers are straining for a modicum of plausibility.
The latest example is the upcoming Spider-Man: Homecoming, where Spider-Man has a cute little Spider-Drone built into his suit, which he can presumably deploy to solve Spider-Man-type problems.
And of course you can buy a working replica. Sky Viper Drones is launching the Official Movie Edition Spider-Drone, which has eight legs, four rotors, and includes a controller. Oh, and the controller speaks your favorite lines from the movie you haven't seen yet. There are two versions, one that just flies around for $89.99, and one that includes a camera for recording video or streaming it back to your phone — which  retail for $149.99. The normal version  be available on June 4th, while the streaming version  hit Toys R Us shelves on July 1st.
The drones include auto launch and landing, adjustable control sensitivity, and an automatic flight mode that can keep the drone at a steady altitude. It's still a toy, essentially, but that's not a bad list of features. Although if you don't need to pretend like you're Spider-Man, Sky Viper offers similar drones for a much better price.
Worker safety at Tesla’s flagship auto plant have been called into question again — this time in a report that analyzes three years of federal records — as the US automaker tries to fend off attempts at unionization and undergoes a rapid expansion to produce the Model 3, an electric vehicle for the masses.
Worksafe, a worker safety advocacy group found injury rates at the plant were well above the industry average in 2014 and 2015, according to its independent review of work-related injuries and illnesses at Tesla’s Fremont, California plant. Worksafe, which analyzed reports filed with the US Labor Department’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, found similarly high injury rates in 2016 at the plant, but is unable to offer an accurate comparison because official industry-wide statistics are not yet available for that year.
The Worksafe report not only outlines an array of worrisome data of Tesla’s past, it  questions whether the company’s recent claims of improved safety are accurate or believable.
Among the highlights at the Fremont factory that employs 10,000 workers:
Meanwhile, Tesla is trying to direct attention to its progress.
“We may have had some challenges in the past as we were learning how to become a car company, but what matters is the future and with the changes we’ve made, we now have the lowest injury rate in the industry by far,” a Tesla spokesman said in an emailed statement. “Our goal is to have as close to zero injuries as humanly possible and to become the safest factory in the auto industry.”
The data analyzed and reported by Worksafe suggests Tesla has a long way to go before it  achieve that goal. The report  questions the company’s recent claims of lowering injury rates at the factory.
Tesla published a blog in May highlighting improvements to its safety record and warning that the latest phase of UAW’s campaign to organize workers “involves a concerted and professional media push intended to raise questions about safety at Tesla.” The blog boasted that the factory’s injury rates were 4.6 injuries per 100 workers through the first quarter of 2017 — 32 percent better than the industry average of 6.7.
Worksafe argues that one quarter isn’t a sufficient length of time to accurately determine whether this is a trend or a temporary dip that might have been helped by a one-week closure of the factory for maintenance. Worksafe  contends that company’s claims are based on preliminary data that can’t be considered accurate “given Tesla’s erratic reporting patterns.”
Tesla has vigorously defended its safety record in recent months, pushing back against claims that ambitious production goals have created an unsafe work environment.
Despite Tesla’s efforts, reports of worker safety issues have energized efforts to unionize the factory.
Ancient Chinese and Persian medical texts — and modern anecdotes — suggest that cannabis is useful for treating seizures. Research has been scant, but a new study of cannabidiol, a molecule in cannabis, has given some credence to these claims. Kids with a severe form of epilepsy had 39 percent fewer seizures per month after taking the substance,  called CBD. Three people stopped having seizures altogether.
In a study published today in the New England Journal of Medicine, researchers gave children a liquid form of CBD called Epidiolex. Epidiolex, manufactured by GW Pharmaceuticals, is taken orally but has not yet been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. (It’s important to note that the study was funded by GW Pharmaceuticals.)
CBD, like the more well-known tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), is a molecule that’s very abundant in cannabis. Both CBD and THC come from the same plant, but CBD comes from a strain called hemp. Unlike THC, CBD doesn’t contain psychoactive properties that make the user high. This makes it very attractive as a potential drug, especially given the boom of cannabis research, including a recent study looking at the effect on THC on learning and memory.
The 120 participants in today’s study, aged two to 18, all have a serious form of epilepsy called Dravet syndrome, which starts during childhood and usually can’t be treated, says study co-author Daniel Friedman, a professor of neurology at the NYU Langone Medical Center. They were randomized into two groups: one group took 20 mg/kg of CBD per day for 14 weeks and one took a placebo. (This type of randomized controlled trial is considered the gold standard for a clinical study. When you randomly assign people, you make sure that whatever is being tested actually causes the results, and that the outcome isn’t just because the two groups are different to begin with.)
The researchers found that the group that took CBD had about six seizures a month instead of 12. In the placebo group, they had about 14 seizures a month, instead of 15. And three people taking CBD stopped having seizures altogether.
There is one big downside though: about 93 percent of people taking CBD had side effects — mostly nausea, diarrhea, but  sleepiness and liver abnormality. And eight people in the CBD group dropped out because of the side effects. (In comparison, only 74 percent in the placebo group had side effects and one withdrew.) These problems may be due to the CBD interacting with other medications the patient was already taking, Friedman says. “It’s hard to tell what are the specific side effects if somebody were to get CBD without anything else,” he says.
Today’s study  lasted only 14 weeks, so we don’t know how long the benefits last, or whether there are any long-term effects. Participants  all took the same dosage, so we don’t know whether a higher dose would be more effective or, on the other hand, whether a lower dose would be equally effective but cause fewer side effects.
All these questions  be addressed in future studies, Friedman says. Future research   be needed to confirm these results, as well as determine whether CBD can have similar effects in other forms of epilepsy. In the meantime, congratulations to everyone who can say “I told you so.”
Facebook’s plan to seed the service with television-like shows now has some names behind it. BuzzFeed and Vox are among the media companies that have signed deals with the company to create shortform series, according to Reuters. The shows, which were originally expected to debut next month, are now expected to arrive closer to the end of summer.
Reuters reports there  be two types of shows: 20- to 30-minute shows that Facebook  own outright, and 5- to 10-minute shows that  be owned by the media companies, with Facebook taking a 45 percent cut of the ad revenue. Reuters says Facebook is paying up to $250,000 for the longer shows and up to $35,000 for shorter ones — a relatively small investment in a world where a single episode of Game of Thrones costs more than $10 million.
Vox Media, which owns The Verge,  be a part of the effort, I have confirmed. A Vox spokeswoman declined to comment. Other media companies that have reached deals with Facebook besides BuzzFeed include ATTN and Group Nine Media, which publishes NowThis, Thrillist, and the Dodo, according to Reuters.
Facebook’s push into original video represents an effort to siphon advertising dollars away from the fading institution of television. The company has said it is running out of room to show new ads in the News Feed, putting pressure on Facebook to find profitable new real estate. YouTube recently announced a similar effort with stars including Katy Perry, Demi Lovato, and Ellen Degeneres.
Changes are on the way to Sony’s smartphone lineup. The company is discontinuing its Xperia X and Xperia X Compact lines of devices, which it considers “premium standard” (midrange), Sony announced at its investor conference, according to XperiaBlog.
Sony has decided to shift its focus to its flagship devices, and says it  launch at least two new devices that fit into that category before the end of the year under the Xperia name. Given the trend of smartphones and Sony’s design prowess, those devices  should be something interesting to say the least. But as usual with Sony smartphones, the software  remain the big question.
Sony usually unveils its flagship device at IFA in September, so it shouldn’t be too long before we see new devices from the fabled company.
American air travel is miserable in almost every possible way, from increasingly onerous security procedures to the threat of literally having your teeth knocked out. But based on the video above, I’m going to cling to the notion that things are better in New Zealand, because airlines there are apparently busy figuring out how to let flight attendants read your emotions with augmented reality.
The project is a collaboration between Air New Zealand and Dimension Data, using the Microsoft HoloLens headset. As VRScout notes, it’s supposedly in beta testing, and it’s not clear how much of what we see in the video exists. In the system Air New Zealand describes, HoloLens-equipped flight attendants could identify passengers through (as far as I can tell) facial recognition, calling up details about their destination, allergies, and even the time since they got their last beverage.
In addition to this, the program would detect a passenger’s mood through “visual and audio cues” — in the video, an attendant sees them go from “calm” to “anxious” and back again. Of course, it’s not clear whether HoloLens could pick this up better than an actual human, and the whole facial recognition process seems far more complicated than Air New Zealand’s previous biometric bag drop system, which matched faces to scanned passports. There’s  the matter of this generation of HoloLens being ridiculous-looking and uncomfortable, and interactions being a little difficult — later in the video, you can see someone getting trained to perform the signature “air tap” gesture.
But in the long run, augmented reality displays actually are a good idea for people who need to see information while walking around and using their hands. , facial recognition systems would only have to scan against the relatively small number of people with boarding passes, not an entire database of potential customers. In coach class, though, it may not be used for much more than saving my preference for peanuts, pretzels, or cookies.
A new update to Google Photos  now let you archive photos from the main feed and hide them away, helping you declutter and privatize some personal photos. First spotted by 9to5Google, all you have to do is hold the photo(s) and hit the “...” menu on the right side to bring up the archive option. Later, when you want to revisit those photos, you can find them on the left side menu under a separate folder.
While it might not seem as buzzworthy as, say, Instagram’s implementation of it on a user profile, it is great if you share a library with a significant other or family members and don’t want certain images just floating about in the main feed. You can  archive away repetitive photos, screenshots, or whatever you might not want to see while scrolling through the gallery. And let’s not forget what it’s truly useful for: relocating, ahem, private images you don’t want others to see when you hand them your phone to show them a picture. (We all have those friends who keep swiping a little too far back.)
The update is out now for version 2.15 of Google Photos on Android — the feature should be coming soon to the web and iOS.
Man at Arms: Reforged is a video series that follows a team of blacksmiths that puts together a new video of some type of sword or weapon from various games, movies, or television shows every couple of weeks. Their latest project is a replica of Wonder Woman’s shield, and the results are stunning.
The team starts off by cutting out a round piece of steel, and proceeds to heat and hammer it into the right shape. There are other components that they have to create, such as buckles, which they mold in clay and cast in bronze. This build is a bit more complicated than the usual swords that they showcase, and it’s fun to watch them change up their routine for a new challenge.
What’s most impressive about this build is the number of tiny details that make this prop look like a real, used shield. They hammer in faux cracks, rivets, lettering, and a magnificent eagle in the center, before topping it off with some gold leaf. This is  no mere prop: after heat-treating the shield, it’s a formidable piece of armor, and they demonstrate how well it holds up by shooting arrows at it, which splinter on impact.
The final result is a truly beautiful piece of work that looks as though it’s saved its bearer more than a couple of times.
Pokémon Go developer Niantic has repeatedly made it clear that the company disapproves of players who use unofficial third-party software to boost their experience. Now Niantic has allegedly come up with a unique form of punishment. Rather than being able to detect and catch the fame’s full roster of pokémon, these so-called cheaters can only spot the most common creatures, like Pidgey, Rattata, and Zubat.
This “shadowban,” as spotted by The Next Web, effectively shoves players into a neutered version of the game, where they can’t see rare spawns. Last August, Niantic began issuing permanent bans to players who violated its terms of service. Players were punished for acts such as using emulators, using modified or unofficial software, falsifying their locations, or accessing Pokémon Go clients or backends via third-party apps. The choice was controversial among players, as it  crippled third-party services like PokéVision, a map that helped users locate pokémon.
Users on The Silph Road subreddit, a community of Pokémon Go players, say affected accounts aren’t being banned outright, they’re just being “flagged” as illicit. “Huge numbers of bot accounts were being flagged, though many were still operating normally,” reads a post on the subreddit. “It was initially suspected that accounts were flagged due to using deprecated API calls to access server resources from Niantic's private API, which may have been true, but it turned out not to be the only reason illicit accounts were flagged.
“As of this moment, it is still unclear what behavior is tipping off Niantic that an account is not legitimate.”
As reported by our sister site Polygon, players using bots or third-party tools have encountered warnings like this:
The Silph Road post says not all bot accounts are being flagged. “As bot accounts (which power ‘scanners’) are being flagged, some scanners are only able to show common species. Others have shut down temporarily, pending a workaround to the anti-botting measures, to preserve their accounts from being shadowbanned.”
We’ve reached out to Niantic for comment, and  update accordingly.
How do we judge Tesla’s progress over time?
Tesla, unlike other automakers, doesn’t have traditional model years. The predictable schedule of small annual updates between major refreshes isn’t part and parcel of Tesla’s DNA, nor its hardware.
Instead, the tech-centric company regularly updates software to improve or add performance and safety features in its electric vehicles. These wireless over-the-air software updates are a selling point to consumers who see value in, and are ing to pay for, a vehicle that theoretically improves over time.
Tesla is judged more like a student — in marking periods, at the discretion of its critics. The recent nick and partial restoration of Tesla’s standing with Consumer Reports is more than just another bump in the up-and-down relationship between the rating organization and the electric automaker.
It  highlights one of Tesla’s greatest attributes and its biggest challenges: how do the consumer, the investor, and even Tesla itself measure its own progress?
The updates are among customers’ favorite features that set Tesla apart, but this process can, on occasion, backfire and even cause discontent among owners when there isn’t consistency among its vehicles.
Three weeks ago, the Tesla Model S lost its top spot in the ultra luxury vehicle category after Consumer Reports lowered its score because newer versions of the sedan didn’t have a functioning automatic emergency braking system — a safety feature Tesla said would come standard in its cars. Model X was  docked two points on the Consumer Reports 100-point scale.
Now, Tesla is climbing back up Consumer Reports’ vehicle ratings after the electric automaker updated its software to add automatic emergency braking to its new Model S sedans and Model X sport utility vehicles.
CR restored only one of the two points it docked Tesla because the updated braking system doesn’t work at highway speeds. Older iterations of the S and X have AEB systems that work up to 90 mph, according to Consumer Reports. Once the vehicles have AEB operational at higher speeds, CR says testers  reconsider the scores. The Model S now has a score of 86, and sits just one point behind the No. 1 Lexus LS.
In October, Tesla began producing Model S and Model X vehicles with a new robust suite of sensors, radar, and cameras. These “hardware 2” vehicles aim to push automated driving capabilities to new levels — eventually.
When the first deliveries of Hardware 2-equipped vehicles began, they were less capable in some ways than their earlier predecessors. New software is released after Tesla validates it.
The automatic emergency braking system, which comes standard in the car, was supposed to be rolled out in the new vehicles by the end of 2016, CR says. Instead, the AEB software update began at the end of April.
Tesla has said AEB and other safety features are a top priority and  introduce them as soon as they’re ready. The company directed The Verge to its statement from last month.
“We believe it would be morally wrong and counterproductive to our goal of improving consumer safety to release features before they’re ready, and we believe our customers appreciate that,” the Tesla statement said.
CR, which has been both a critic and a fan of the company’s vehicles, says it didn’t dock Tesla two points because the company took its time to validate the software, according to Jake Fisher, director of automotive testing at Consumer Reports. CR dubbed the Model S the best car it’s ever evaluated in 2014. It bumped it up even further in 2015, only to drop its recommendation later that year because a survey of owners raised reliability concerns.
“When we purchased the vehicle we were told the car would have this system by the end of 2016,” Fisher said. “The idea of validating things and putting on new enhancements later as you own the car is not the problem. The problem is selling a vehicle promising a certain safety device and not delivering on that (timeline).”
The ability to roll out new features is what makes Tesla unique and appealing, Fisher added. The problem is that the company promised this standard safety feature by the end of December and it took five more months to deliver on that, he said.
“It’s not about awarding it the top score or penalizing Tesla; all we’re doing is just being very clear to consumers what they get with this car,” Fisher said.
OTA software updates have allowed Tesla to bring newer versions of its vehicles to the marketplace at a pace that’s closer to a tech company, not an automaker. However, that strategy can lead to disappointment when features are deployed slower than expected.
Tesla’s use of this technology is challenging auto industry standards. Now Tesla must transition from buzzy disruptor to a company that serves a variety of customers, not just its fans and well-heeled early adopters.
These new customers may be initially wooed by Tesla’s tech and brand ethos. But they’ll only be won over if they understand exactly what they’re getting, and if Tesla delivers.
Microsoft held a special event in China earlier this week to launch the company's new Surface Pro hardware. While the software giant promised to live blog the event itself, Microsoft's plans failed due to connectivity and the company didn't live stream any video of the event either. Microsoft has now posted a 45-minute video of the main part of the launch event, featuring Surface chief Panos Panay.
Panay spends some time looking back at the history of Surface, before introducing the new Surface Pro. There are demonstrations of the new Surface Pen, details on the more than 800 hardware changes inside, and a closer look at the new hinge. If you enjoy Panay's hardware introductions or you're just a little curious about the new Surface Pro then Microsoft's video is available above or on YouTube. We  have a closer look at the new Surface Pro right here.
Last week at Google I/O, the company announced that it  expand Android Pay to a number of new markets, including Brazil, Germany, Spain, and Taiwan. It launched in Russia this week, and now it looks like it’s headed next to Canada on May 31st.
Android Pay  work with most major credit and debit cards in Canada, reports MobileSyrup, but Google did not specify which bank partners  be available to use with the platform at launch. On the vendor side, however, if trends from other countries are any indication, Canadians  have no problem using Android Pay at global franchises like BP, Uber, Burger King, Starbucks, and more.
Android Pay is compatible with Android versions 4.4 and up.
Fans finally got their first real look at the next season of Game of Thrones, and the series looks like it plans on outdoing itself. (Which is astounding, considering how Cersei basically blew up part of King’s Landing last year.) The events of the past few seasons have been littered with shocking deaths and over-the-top battles. But the seventh season raises the stakes beyond the petty wars between different kingdoms. Dragons are coming across the Narrow Sea, and White Walkers threaten to lay waste to the entire continent.
There’s still so much we don’t know about the upcoming season of Thrones, but the latest trailer provides a number of big clues for what we can expect.
Minor spoilers ahead.
It’s taken seven seasons to get here, but Daenerys has finally made it to Westeros, and she’s got her dragons, Tyrion Lannister, and a massive army made up of Unsullied, Dothraki, and troops from Dorne, Highgarden, and the Greyjoys behind her.
As we saw in the earlier teaser, she’s setting up shop on the island of Dragonstone (Stannis’ former castle), but it’s clear that the Mother of Dragons has her eyes on a bigger prize. “I was born to the rule the Seven Kingdoms. And I ,” Daenerys intones in a voiceover, as Unsullied battle Lannister troops in what looks to be Casterly Rock.
And if the closing scenes of the trailer, with Drogon flying over a charging army of Dothraki, is anything to go by, the fight between Daenerys and Cersei for the Iron Throne is coming to a head.
After the Battle for Winterfell at the end of last season, Jon Snow was crowned King of the North. Now, the North stands behind him as it prepares for the arrival of the White Walkers and their army of the dead. As Jon told his bannermen during last season’s finale, “The war is not over.”
But Jon’s new position would not have been possible without Sansa calling in the help of Littlefinger and the Knights of the Vale to turn the tide against Ramsay Bolton. Sansa has grown to be as cunning and ruthless as any of Jon’s enemies, thanks in no small part to Littlefinger. And Littlefinger has plans to rule all of Westeros, even if it means seeing it all burn down.
Jon and Sansa are the last Starks in Winterfell (Bran, now the Three-Eyed Raven, is still beyond the Wall) and they need each other to survive. But with Littlefinger in Sansa’s ear, there’s almost certainly going to be conflict that distracts from the Great War to come.
After killing Walder Frey and avenging her mother and brother’s murders, Arya Stark is now alone to wander the Riverlands and mull over the people on her list she still needs to kill. While many people on that list have died over the years, like King Joffrey and Tywin Lannister, several are still alive.
One person on her list is newly at large: Melisandre. Melisandre met Arya after a run-in with the Brotherhood Without Banners, and said, with an ominous tone, that they’d meet again.
After Ser Davos Seaworth discovered that Melisandre had ordered Shireen Baratheon be burned at the stake, Jon Snow banished her from Winterfell. Now, she’s riding south, right in Arya’s direction. It’s almost inevitable that these two meet — but don’t count on Arya killing Melisandre too quickly. There’s probably a lot the pair can learn about each other before the series is done.
House Stark has been warning us from the very beginning that “Winter is Coming” and it is finally, finally here. We’ve seen the Night King and his massive army over the course of the past two seasons, and given that they’re reanimated corpses, we can only assume that said army has continued to accrue members. While the White Walkers and wights remain offscreen in the trailer, the threat of them bringing eternal winter to all of Westeros is realer than ever.
There have been hints of the Wall coming down in previous seasons, which would let the Walkers roam freely into Westeros. So far, we know that White Walkers can be defeated using Dragonglass and Valyrian steel, both of which are in very limited supply in Westeros. So while Cersei and Dany are battling for the Iron Throne down south, the real threat remains in the North — but for how much longer?
As Ser Davos warns an unseen listener, “If we don’t put aside our enmities and band together, we  die. And then it doesn’t matter whose skeleton sits on the Iron Throne.”
There’s so much more to consider that we haven’t seen yet. What about Sam and Gilly in Oldtown?  Bran escape the Night King? Whatever happened to Euron Greyjoy?  we ever actually see Rhaegar Targaryen? But this new trailer lays the groundwork in the best way possible, getting us hyped for the series’s return this summer.
Game of Thrones returns on July 16th.
Airport security: two words that can strike dread into the heart of any traveler. Largely due to the slow process of checking your bags, along with the added hassles of emptying pockets and removing shoes, belts, coats, and laptops into extra bins.
But there’s good news! According to a new report from The Wall Street Journal, the TSA is looking to make that process even more complicated by requiring passengers to remove more items from their bags at the security checkpoint. To be fair, the changes aren’t being done to slow down travelers — rather they’re due to the increase in passengers trying to cram as much stuff into carry-on bags as possible (a separate issue caused by airlines charging expensive fees to check bags), TSA screeners are having problems reading X-rays due to the cluttered contents.
To that end, the TSA is looking to add items to the list of things that must be placed in separate bins. The procedures are still getting tested, but current proposals have suggested forcing passengers to remove all food and paper from their bags, in addition to laptops or other large electronics. According to Darby LaJoye, the assistant administrator for security operations at the TSA, the changes aren’t due to a concern over any one item — no one really thinks your apple is a bomb — but about figuring out a way to get more stuff out of bags for faster X-rays. According to The Wall Street Journal, which items are required to be removed could change from airport by airport or on a line-by-line basis. Compliance might be optional for some items, with the downside that not-removing items could make you more likely to be slowed down with a manual search.
It makes sense in a way, given that TSA staff must be able to identify all the items in a bag and manually check if something looks unsafe. But the TSA is hoping that the new rules won’t add to people’s time in line, under the assumption that the time lost removing stuff from bags  be made up in faster X-ray scans. As someone who has spent time in an airport security line before, I would posit that this is an optimistic outlook that borders on naïvety regarding human nature.
Members of the TSA Pre-Check program (which requires an $85 application fee that must be renewed every five years and is granted or denied solely at the TSA’s discretion) likely won’t be seeing the changes.
The TSA is currently running small-scale trials of the changes in airports in Colorado Springs, Boise, Lubbock, Los Angeles, Phoenix, Las Vegas, Boston, Detroit, Fort Lauderdale, and San Juan, Puerto Rico, with changes set to be finalized in the coming weeks, with a goal of putting the new rules in place after the summer travel season ends.
If you can even remember the year 2003, I’m guessing one thing you remember is that it’s the year Disney released a film based on a theme-park ride.
That film is significant mostly due to the absolute absurdity of its confidence. It had a summer-blockbuster release date, a ridiculously long name for the first installment in a franchise, a director fresh off The Ring, Orlando Bloom fresh off the second Lord of the Rings movie, and that elevator pitch, “It’s a movie based on a theme-park ride.” More specifically, based on a boat ride through the unsettling world of animatronic pirates, built in California’s Disneyland in 1967, then replicated in Florida’s Walt Disney World in 1973, Tokyo’s Disneyland in 1983, and Paris’ Disneyland in 1992.
Nevertheless, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl was almost universally praised, with special compliments for the score, the signature Disney magic in the production design, and for Johnny Depp’s Captain Jack Sparrow, a character who felt like a throwback to the era of musical comedy and hammy pratfalls. Most importantly, Elvis Mitchell of The New York Times posed the question in his review, “Can a movie maintain the dramatic integrity of a theme-park ride?” and then he answered himself: “Sure.” As someone who was 10 years old at the time, I’ll submit my own answer to that question: “Oh, heck yes.”
Four movies later, we have arrived at the point where Johnny Depp is no longer an actor anybody wants to compliment, and where people barely remember Orlando Bloom is a person, and where the Pirates franchise has been turned over to two virtually unknown directors. Everything in the world has changed, except, of course, the oldest and most disturbing robot-men who still reside at various Disney theme parks around the world — their fake leg hair, their glassy eyes, their elbows crooked to hold bottles of rum. They’re still there, singing “Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate’s life for me,” chasing gold around an endless track, and lobbing fake cannonballs at 4-year-olds.
Does Dead Men Tell No Tales still capture that theme-park magic, or has it lost its way? I went to see it, in Times Square, to find out. For you.
Note: This is not a film review. I’m only going to answer one question — the one posed in my headline — and if it’s not a question you care about then I suggest moving along.
SPOILERS FOR THE WHOLE MOVIE AHEAD.
For starters, I was supposed to have a friend with me at this screening of Dead Men Tell No Tales, much like one might take a friend to Disney World. But then she decided she was going to the gym instead. Not Disney magic.
However, there were children in my press screening, and some of them were in pirate costumes. In front of me, two teen boys scolded their mother for not turning off her phone, even as she was in the process of turning off her phone. She hissed, “Geez!” Disney magic.
The run-time of Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales is two hours and 33 minutes. The run-time of the Disney World Pirates of the Caribbean ride is eight minutes and 30 seconds. Not Disney magic.
The film opens with a young boy sitting in a dark room, looking at his favorite poster, which is titled “Father’s Curse.” Already I’m a little worked up, thinking “My God, this childhood  produce a strange adult.” Not Disney magic.
The young boy finds his dad, Orlando Bloom. If you can recall Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End (2007), you know Bloom has been cursed to work on The Flying Dutchman, an enchanted boat that turns everyone on it into a weird hybrid squid-person. He looks absolutely nuts. He tells the young boy, “You  never figure out how to break my curse. Love you, though.” The scene is excruciatingly boring until he says “Stop acting like—” and the kid goes…
…
…
“A pirate?” Disney magic.
This movie has a lot of fog, which is something I remember from the Pirates of the Caribbean ride in Disney World’s Magic Kingdom in Orlando, Florida. Disney magic.
Nine years later, the boy, named Henry (played by The Giver’s Brenton Thwaites), is pissing off everyone on the British naval ship he works on. They’re about to sail directly into a boat covered in zombie pirates, and he doesn’t think they should. That’s treason! , it’s scary. Not Disney magic.
Captain Salazar (Javier Bardem) is the leader of the zombie pirates, and he is revolting to behold. When he talks, a melted black-licorice substance oozes out from between his teeth. , the back of his head is missing. Someone says “What are you?” And he says, “Death.” Bardem has been nominated for two Academy Awards, and won one of them. Disney magic.
Salazar kills everyone except Henry, because “dead men tell no tales,” and he needs to leave someone alive who can tell Jack Sparrow that he hates him. This is when we see the title card for the film, which reads Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales. I am a sucker for the moment in a movie where someone says the title of the movie, and this scene does it twice. Disney magic.
The other thing you need to know about Licorice-Mouth is that everyone calls him “El Matador del Mar,” and they translate it as “The Butcher of the Sea,” which is maybe technically accurate if you go back to the roots of the word, but is going to confuse everyone who’s familiar with matadors as bullfighters. Walt Disney World, by contrast, is famously attentive to detail. Not Disney magic.
The next few minutes of this movie take place on the island of St. Martin, where Henry has been taken to the hospital, even though he’s going to be hanged for treason. The set looks identical to the vaguely Spanish Colonial-themed section of Disney’s Magic Kingdom. Disney magic.
 on the island, we meet a young woman named Carina (The Maze Runner’s Kaya Scodelario) whom everyone hates because she’s a scientist, which the government mistranslates as “a witch.” She is trying to buy some kind of astronomy device, but failing because everyone’s sexist. Not Disney magic.
Next we meet Johnny Depp, as Jack Sparrow, hanging out inside a bank vault he accidentally locked himself into. Setting aside what you may feel about him, Depp’s voice and likeness were incorporated into the Disney World ride in 2006. This can’t be helped. Disney magic.
He is drunker than ever before. Not Disney magic.
There is a bonkers chase scene in which the entire bank gets dragged around the island by some horses, in incredible defiance of physics. Repeatedly, Jack nearly gets killed or arrested, but does not. As with most Disney theme-park rides, this pointless but exhilarating scene involved many moving pieces and seems to have cost a lot of money. Disney magic.
By the end, the whole town is destroyed. The bank vault Jack was trying to rob is empty, prompting his first mate, Mr. Gibbs, to rage-quit with the extremely melodramatic line “We’ve reached the end of our horizon.” There is no mass destruction or emotional turmoil in Disney World’s Pirates of the Caribbean ride. Not Disney magic.
Carina and Henry meet in the hospital and instantly become allies, bonding over the fact that they both want to find the magical trident of Poseidon. For him, it’s a matter of breaking Father’s Curse. For her, it’s a matter of proving she’s a great scientist. She explains that the famous astronomer Galileo Galilei was secretly obsessed with a star map to the trident, and her absentee father left her a magical diary that  help her decipher “the map no man can read.” Disney magic.
She reasons that she  be able to read the map because “luckily” she is not a man — she is a woman. This line  appears in Lord of the Rings: Return of the King and the third episode of the third season of HBO’s Game of Thrones. Not Disney magic.
Jack Sparrow trades his magic compass for some booze, then gets arrested. There is no police presence inside the Pirates of the Caribbean attraction at Disney World. Not Disney magic.
For whatever reason, Jack trading away his compass frees the zombies, who all have the same melting-licorice mouth and generally are just super-gross. When they start running around, it becomes apparent that they are actually ghosts — many of them don’t have legs, but they can still move quite quickly when they want to do a murder. Disney magic.
They  have ghost-birds, and a ghost-boat which can turn itself into a mouth and eat other boats, so they commence doing this to anyone and everyone out of spite. This is primarily so that other characters can say things like “Death has taken over the sea” every few minutes. Disney magic.
Henry (who wriggled out of his handcuffs earlier) locates Jack in jail and finds his drunken-idiot routine less than charming. He asks “Do you even have a ship? A crew? Pants?” Depp’s pants-less body is not, in my opinion, appropriate for a theme-park ride. Not Disney magic.
Still in jail, the pair meet Paul McCartney, who plays Jack’s uncle,  named Jack. He has a 20-second speaking role. Thank god I  be dead before Harry Styles gets to this point in his career. Not Disney magic.
A blood moon rises, making Carina’s magic diary glow, and it gives her a clue: “To command the power of the seas, all must divide.” Okay, sure. Disney magic.
Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), who you may remember used to be a ghost pirate, in previous installments of the one and only film franchise based on a theme-park ride, is now a normal pirate. He has a sick manicure and is hanging out on a fancy boat, eating tiny bits of bright pink food with a pair of tweezers. His sidekicks have been recast. They’re like “the ghost boat is going to come eat us, what’s your idea?” Converging storylines = Disney magic.
In case you forgot, the British Empire is  involved in this movie. They hated Carina for being a witch, but they still have their own bald witch with lots of red-ink tattoos. Barbossa bribes someone so he can talk to her and she tells him, “The price for passing my door is blood.” This is foreshadowing. Disney magic.
She throws a rat in the fire and suggests that Barbossa just retire. If he’s not on a boat, his boat can’t get eaten by a boat-eating boat. Interesting idea, but he hates it. There’s nothing more gratifying and magical than keeping your hands and arms inside the boat at all times, as we learned from the safety guidelines at Disney’s best boat-themed attraction. Disney magic.
Barbossa takes Jack’s magic compass from the witch and says, “Time to make a deal with the dead.” I don’t feel like the witch did much here, but she looks cool. Walt Disney World has plenty of non-functional scene dressing, and that’s part of the experience. Disney magic.
Henry rescues Jack from a guillotine and Carina from being hung. Nice. Team up, let’s go. They all escape on a boat that, for some reason, needs to be driven into the sea on a set of wooden tracks. It’s a subtle but obvious reference to the tracks that move boats through the Magic Kingdom’s thrilling pirate ride. Disney magic.
It’s not obvious why Henry and Carina are prisoners, or why everyone is being so mean to each other. They all have different goals here, but none of them are in conflict. Much like a trip to a theme park, this could have been a nice little group outing, but everyone is insisting on bickering. Disney magic.
I don’t know if I’ve made it 100 percent clear yet, but the ghost boat literally turns into a gaping mouth with spiky wooden teeth when it approaches other boats. Anyway, the boat-mouth comes for Barbossa, and his big idea is to wait until he’s about to die and then say “Oh, are you lookin’ for Jack?” Licorice-Mouth is like “Yeah, babe, find him and I won’t kill you. We’re on the ocean. You have one day.” Disney magic.
Carina drew her star-map on the prison wall earlier. The “no man can read it” rule still applies, but the witch the British don’t kill for some reason is brought in to say, “Yes, this is the star map.” Nobody knows why this conversation is happening! Not Disney magic.
Meanwhile, Carina is bragging about how well she understands the star map. My calculations are precise and true,” she explains. Math is boring. Not Disney magic.
Jack teases Henry about having a crush on Carina. This makes no sense, considering that Henry and Carina have barely interacted. Personally, I’m busy wondering why there hasn’t been a good pub scene yet, with loud music and colorful bit characters. That is a key element in a theme-park ride I’ve been on two or three dozen times. Not Disney magic.
Finally, we get a flashback with voiceover narration, telling the story of Captain Salazar’s former life as a Spanish navy commander. He killed the captain of young Jack Sparrow’s pirate crew, so Jack did some crazy maneuvering to force Salazar to sink his ship in the haunted “Devil’s Triangle.” That made him a ghost. , his boat exploded in flames. It’s not explained how sinking into water would make something made out of wood explode into flames, but booming expository narration and an unnerving computer-generated teen Jack Sparrow are definitely in keeping with the spirit of modern Disney World. Disney magic.
As this little interlude wraps up, Barbossa and Salazar stumble upon Jack and friends — in the middle of the ocean. Small world! Disney magic.
Jack, Carina, and Henry run away in a rowboat, so Salazar sends the ghost-ship mascots out to bring them back. They are...
Oh hell yeah, Imagineers. The ghost sharks can fly, eat wood, kill people, and look awesome. One of them has a human tongue, because Disney imposes no limits on imagination. That’s kind of their thing. The ghost sharks rule. The other ghosts, we now learn, can run on top of water. Some of them have no arms or head-tops. It’s amazing, but not as amazing as the ghost sharks. None of these things occur in the Disney World ride, but thematically, I think we can agree, the surprise reveal of ghost sharks is… Disney magic.
One thing the ghosts can’t run on is land, so Jack, Carina, Henry, and Barbossa (who has decided to betray Licorice-Mouth) just stand on an island and talk about what to do next. They’re going to have to “race the dead” to get to the trident and break all the curses. You must know what’s coming…
It’s the fastest ship known to man. It’s the only ship everyone talks about constantly. It’s the name of the first movie in the first multi-film franchise based on a theme-park attraction. It is in Shrinky-Dink form in a glass bottle in Jack’s pocket. It’s The Black Pearl. Disney magic.
Barbossa stabs Jack in the pocket with a sword and The Black Pearl springs up like one of those shrink-wrapped washcloths. Disney magic.
Henry takes this opportunity to turn to Carina and say something to the effect of, “Hey, still think science is real?” Rude. Not Disney magic.
Carina, a woman, steers the ship. This is a real step up from the first movie, in which Keira Knightley’s character wasn’t even supposed to be on the ship at all due to the fact that she was a woman. In 1997, the Pirates of the Caribbean rides at Disney World and Disneyland were significantly revised to make them less sexist. Disney magic.
Carina takes out her diary, and Barbossa thinks, “Oh crap, I gave that diary to my daughter when I abandoned her… You are my daughter.” To be honest, this is the point where the movie jumps the shark a little bit. No offense intended to the ghost sharks, who rule. Not Disney magic.
Carina steers them to an island covered in rhinestones and declares it “a perfect reflection of the heavens.” The whole island is a map of the stars, which is nice to look at, even if it makes no sense at all. Disney magic.
The ruby from the cover of Carina’s diary is exactly the size and shape of the only missing star in the island-sized map. She puts the ruby in its place and says “The missing star. For my father,” to which Barbossa replies, “Yes, do it for him.” Shut up. Not Disney magic.
A big ol’ crack appears in the ocean, and suddenly everyone is in the underwater tomb of Poseidon. Disney magic.
Henry, who was previously kidnapped by the ghost pirates but I forgot about that part, is now going to be part of a plan. Salazar takes over his body, using a magical power that had not been previously established. Another ghost-pirate says “Are you sure? You’ll be trapped in his body forever.” Probably not, since Henry and Carina  likely have a Pirates spin-off series. It’s simply smart synergy for all the Pirates of the Caribbean theme-park rides of the world. Disney magic.
The new, slimy version of Henry tries to kill everyone, and things look bleak. Not Disney magic.
Carina mutters, “To command the power of the sea, all must divide,” somehow deducing that if she destroys the trident, it  break every ocean-related curse in the world. Disney magic.
She does it! Disney magic.
The crack in the ocean starts to close, with all of our beloved characters still inside. Not Disney magic.
Climbing up the Black Pearl’s anchor to safety, Carina notices that Barbossa has an arm tattoo of the star map, and pauses to ask “Who am I to you?” He replies, “Treasure.” This makes everyone in the theater laugh, including the children. Not Disney magic.
Barbossa jumps off the anchor to stab Licorice-Mouth (who is no longer a ghost, but somehow not dead either) and they both fall into the ocean. Everyone, including a small monkey, is really sad that Barbossa is dead. Okay, here is your one reminder that Barbossa menaced Henry’s mom in a sexual way in the first movie. Not Disney magic.
Carina is sad too, so she and Henry make out lightly in deference to her mourning. They’re in love now, and amped up because Henry broke Father’s Curse. Now he can finally take down that creepy poster. Disney magic.
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley (she’s in this movie too!) are reunited, and they make out hard. It is PG, though. Disney magic.
Jack Sparrow leaves all of his new pals and sails away on The Black Pearl. In the end, it’s a pirate’s life for him. Disney magic.
I’m sorry that I didn’t stay for the big post-credits scene, but it’s my job to watch movies, not poorly disguised commercials for future movies. In any case, loosely inspired by the Disney ride, which empties out into a gift shop, my showing of Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales emptied out into a Dave & Busters. Disney magic.
Disney magic: 35
Not Disney magic: 21
The Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, while now a joke, is still a fascinating example of a very specific type of movie — the type that blends the most cynical elements of the film industry with the kind of unhinged optimism you only experience during an acid trip. Is basing a film series on a theme-park ride the surest bet in capitalism, or the stupidest, weirdest idea of all time? It turned out to be the former, but could just have easily been the latter. Disney put 50-year-old robot men with eye patches in one end of a sausage grinder, and pulled CGI ghost sharks out the other. It made such a bad movie — an overlong, tortured mess that pairs a played-out main character with every story trope and special effect the mind can fathom.
But does Dead Men Tell No Tales capture the magic of Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean ride?
Yeah. You know? Sure.
Twitter is expanding its emoji lineup to include “all the new emoji” (aka Emoji 5.0), designer Bryan Haggerty announced via the site today. Sadly the update hasn’t rolled out to every user yet, and it’s worth double-checking that you have the latest updates to Twitter apps for your device of choice.
With the update, Twitter users  have access to more inclusive emoji options for gender and skin tones. Fittingly for Twitter, the update  includes some of the sassiest icons that exist: the raised eyebrow, the hand giggling emoji, and — my personal favorite — the shush emoji.
The best Twitter advice I’ve ever read is “never tweet,” but even I can’t resist the siren song of the 140-character missive. I’ve got a brand to build, people. But this mild little shusher is here to gently notify our friends, foes, and sometimes ourselves, saying “you’ve done a bad tweet. It’s time to step away.”
I think about this brilliant piece by Luke O’Neil on “the ratio” — how many likes or retweets you’re getting vs. straight up replies — several times a week. I wonder if we  see a new metric: how many people responded with “shush”?
So far I’ve been able to successfully deploy some choice icons — the barfing guy, the middle finger (oh boy, aren’t we all just so glad that exists on Twitter) in my natural skin tone, and the shusher — without problem.
We've just added all the new emojis to https://t.co/LOTAlBvtUR and updated our Twemoji open source repo    https://t.co/lD0IvE7ifj
According to Emojipedia, many of these emoji for this update “rely on characters which are part of Unicode 10.0. Some vendors now support this update, with the majority expected to have support by the end of 2017.”
Correction: This story previously stated that emoji were capable of throwing shade. The Verge was ruled incorrect in Shade Court. We plan to appeal.
Today, Facebook announced an update to its Trending Topics section that  make the list of news stories easier to parse on mobile with a more diverse list of sources. Now, when you click on a news topic from the search bar on an iPhone, you’ll get multiple stories from different outlets that can be swiped through in a carousel format, as well as the standard posts from friends and prominent celebrity and public figure pages you follow. The company plans to roll the redesign out to Android and desktop soon.
Facebook isn’t deciding which publications  be shown. The company spent a healthy chunk of last year tweaking Trending Topics after a controversy over liberal bias, which sparked fierce debates about Facebook’s editorial influence in the run up to the US election.
After firing the human curators who oversaw story selection and watering down the Trending list to a regional list of popular subjects, Facebook seems to have found an equilibrium. (The company still appears reluctant to admit any part of it resembles a media company.) So the new update  simply show “some of the most popular stories about that topic on Facebook,” the company’s blog post reads.
“Facebook says stories are determined the same way as the featured headline — using a combination of factors including the engagement around the article on Facebook, the engagement around the publisher overall, and whether other articles are linking to it,” writes Facebook product manager Ali Ahmadi and designer John Angelo. “By making it easier to see what other news outlets are saying about each topic, we hope that people  feel more informed about the news in their region.”
Another change to Trending Topics on mobile includes a new top list of stories that  display the three most talked-about subjects on Facebook in your geographical region right in the News Feed. This is just a test for now, and Facebook won’t say if it  make its way to the wider user base. “While most people  not see Trending in their News Feed as part of this small test, we hope that it  help us learn how to make Trending as useful and informative for people as possible,” Ahmadi and Angelo write. “If you do see the Trending unit in your News Feed, you have the option to remove it in the drop-down menu which  prevent it from being shown to you in the future.”
I don’t like going to hospitals. I’m always wondering about what kind of bacteria are floating around and what pathogens I’m going to pick up. Well, my abstract fears have just gotten a little bit more real. A new study shows what kinds of organisms you encounter in hospitals — and how patients and the hospital rooms they’re in exchange these organisms with one another.
Researchers took thousands of samples from a hospital in Chicago for two months before it opened and for 10 months afterward. They swabbed floors, bedrails, pagers, and cellphones, as well as patients’ noses, hands, and armpits. They saw that the microbes changed dramatically after the hospital became operational. Patients picked up organisms already present in their rooms before their arrival, but over time, their own microbes took over. More bacteria were  being exchanged during the summer, and after months of the hospital running, more invasive organisms that might be antibiotic resistant were detected.
The findings, published today in Science Translational Medicine, show how microbial communities evolve in hospitals. That information could one day be used to build better health care facilities to try to avoid hospital-acquired infections. “We can now use this to design the most accurate intervention possible,” says study co-author Jack Gilbert, a microbial ecologist and professor of surgery at the University of Chicago.
All of us are home to billions of bacteria, viruses, and fungi that live on our skin and inside our bodies — collectively called the microbiome. A building or place — like your office or house — has a microbiome, too. And like it or not, you’re constantly picking up microbes from the places you visit, and vice versa. We constantly shed skin and microbes from our bodies. This interaction can affect our health, and we’re just starting to understand how it all works.
Previous studies have looked at the microbiome of office spaces, as well as homes. But Gilbert says he wanted to look at the evolving microbiome of hospitals — and he had a unique opportunity that couldn’t be wasted. A new hospital was being built at the University of Chicago, and that gave his team the opportunity to analyze the organisms living in the facility before it opened, and how they changed after patients started coming in. “We got very lucky,” Gilbert says.
Starting in January 2013, he and his team began taking microbial samples of floors, countertops, computer mice, and phones. After the hospital became operational in late February 2013, they kept collecting samples — swabbing floors, bedrails, and people’s hands, noses, and armpits, for 10 months. Overall, they collected 6,523 samples in 10 patient rooms and two nurse stations on two floors. They  monitored the place’s humidity, temperature, and ventilation.
“We were able to build a very detailed map — a cartography if you  — of this new hospital environment and the role of the hospital itself in the transmission of microbes and how microbes were shaped by that environment,” Gilbert says.
Within 24 hours of the hospital’s opening, the bacteria and organisms changed dramatically, Gilbert says. Before patients moved in, the hospital was filled with “very hardy bugs” that were used to living in an environment where they were constantly purged and cleaned. But after patients moved in, they were almost completely swapped out by human skin bacteria, Gilbert says. Among them were Staphylococcus epidermidis, a skin colonizer that’s usually harmless, and Staphylococcus aureus, another bacterium found in the nose and skin that can cause food poisoning.
“People were shedding a ton of bugs into this environment,” he says. “It was like a microbial flood, entering into the hospital as the patients started to use this place.”
But the microbial exchange went both ways. Patients  picked up microbes already present in the rooms before their stay. In fact, the researchers were able to detect organisms left behind by a previous patient on the skin and inside the nose of the new patient — despite the fact that the rooms were cleaned in between stays. This sort of microbial transmission was known for years, Gilbert says, but “we didn’t know it was quite this prevalent.”
The researchers  saw that microbes were exchanged more easily during the summer months, possibly because of increased humidity. The diversity of a patient’s skin microbes didn’t change significantly based on whether the patient was undergoing chemotherapy, recovering from surgery, or taking antibiotics. , toward the end of the 10 months, the researchers began detecting organisms that had antibiotic-resistant genes and genes that boost the ability of these bugs to colonize human tissues. That could be because hospitals are constantly cleaned and people are taking antibiotics, so organisms evolve so that they’re “very well adapted to the constant stress of that environment,” Gilbert says.
The study has some limitations. It’s only an “observational” study, meaning it shows that people’s microbiome changed in a hospital, but it doesn’t allow researchers to draw a connection between, say, a microbe a patient picked up in a room and a health condition that person developed. Same goes for the organisms with the antibiotic-resistant genes the researchers detected: we don’t actually know if those organisms could have caused a drug-resistant infection.
Still, the findings make total sense and the research is important, says James Meadow, a senior data scientist at Cogitativo, who’s done microbiome research for a decade and was not part of the research. “I really like science like this where we just assume, yeah, I’m sure we give bacteria off to the room around us and I’m sure we get bacteria from the room around us,” Meadow says, “but it’s really important to actually go in and test these assumptions to make sure they’re right.”
In the future, this information could be used to make better hospitals where the risks of getting infections are reduced. In 2011, there were an estimated 722,000 hospital-acquired infections in the US, and about 75,000 patients died during their hospitalization, according to a 2014 survey. Understanding how microbial communities change in health care facilities, and how microbes are exchanged, is a step forward in finding a solution, Meadow says.
Next, Gilbert would like to get even more detailed information tracking where patients go in a hospital, and how that movement affects the number and type of microbes exchanged. I’m just afraid that after that data comes out, I won’t step into a hospital ever again. With bacteria and bugs, sometimes I just don’t want to know.
For fans, the Far Cry series is known for beautiful sprawling locales, heavy weapons, and strong voice acting performances. But it’s  notorious for continually sending players to “exotic” nations, and encouraging them to murder the local people of color. Previous settings include the islands of the South Pacific, an unnamed African country, an Asian-Pacific archipelago, and a fictional country tucked into the Himalayas. Far Cry 5  be presented next month at the annual E3 game conference, but a piece of key art, released today, shows that Ubisoft intends to invert that controversy, moving the series to the USA.
Far Cry 5 is set in a Montana county, and its lead enemies, judging from the key art, are a band of white Americans. The image is a loaded collision of violence, religion, and politics. The band of rural Americans, sporting unkempt beards and wool button-downs, while wielding magnums and bowie knives, re-create the tableau of da Vinci’s The Last Supper. On the table rests iconography of rural Americana: a freshly baked pie, a glass jug, an empty beer bottle, a raw steak, and an American flag — the stars replaced with a variation on the Iron Cross, known best as a German military medal used during the World Wars. In the foreground is a bound prisoner, “SINNER” painted onto his back; in the background stands a chapel, draped with the same variation on the Iron Cross.
(Yan Kuzovlev notes on Twitter the symbol resembles a squat version of the cross of Scientology. The blue tone of the chapel resembles the color of the church’s headquarters in Los Angeles. That could be read as further commentary. As Polygon explains, Far Cry 5 tells the story of a Christian cult.)
The image calls to mind the 2016 occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Range, in which armed militants in cowboy hats and rugged button-downs seized the headquarters of the park located in Harney County, Oregon. Though it’s likely work began on Far Cry 5 before the incident, as video games takes years to conceptualize, greenlight, and develop.
The significance of the game using white, non-military Americans as villains extends beyond the Far Cry franchise. Other than the Grand Theft Auto and Postal series, very few medium-to-large budget video games have used American citizens as lethal targets. Like the action movies of the 1980s, most video games have defaulted to “non-controversial” fodder, like Nazis, indistinctly “foreign” terrorists, robots, aliens, zombies, and, of course, Nazi zombies. Even fewer games have specified a certain type of American as an enemy, preferring to paint with a broad and less controversial brush.
But a shift has taken place over the past year. Resident Evil 7 sets its hero against a pseudo-zombified white family in the American bayou, while Outlast 2 draws horror from an American religious cult. Mafia 3 follows Lincoln Clay, a mixed-raced Vietnam vet, who takes revenge on the Italian mob in 1970s Louisiana after the assassination of his father figure, the leader of the black mob. And an episode of Hitman, called “Freedom Fighters,” has the titular killer assassinating targets on a Colorado compound that seemed to take at least some inspiration from the real-world incident in Harney County.
But Far Cry 5, should it commit to the direction the key art suggests,  be the biggest and most aggressive game to adjust the sights of the first-person shooter genre against people in the United States. Its enemies aren’t zombies, nor are they singular targets that require skill to kill. The series is built around its lead killing hundreds of enemies in a single playthrough.
Far Cry 5 has with a single image show its intentions to course-correct. And in doing so, it may find itself in a controversy — this time from the opposing side of the political spectrum.
An important piece of information is still unknown: who  the player play as? The moral complexity of previous Far Cry games was impacted, partly, by the identity of the protagonist. The player selected the lead from a pool of characters with different ethnicities in Far Cry 2, while Far Cry 3 featured an extreme sports-loving, young, white man as the hero who slaughters islanders, while getting marked with mystical tribal tattoos. Far Cry 4’s hero was returning to his homeland to spread the ashes of his deceased mother before being looped into the nation’s civil war. The character at the center of Far Cry 5  be the lens through which we see its villains.
But the art alone has already upset some fans. On the forum Politically Incorrect forum at 4chan, one commenter writes, “Sweet. If that is the plot I can find out who make FarCry game and NEVER FUCKING BUY ONE OF THEIR GAMES AGAIN.” Another writes, “Making the white people look evil. Getting fucking sick of this shit. You want us to become evil. We sure as fuck .” Another goes further: “I hope they at least give us an ******evil ******* so that I can have the option to join them. If that were the case I would gladly pay $70 dollars to have a degenerate-hunter simulator.”
It’s still unclear how Far Cry 5  deliver upon its formula of beautiful settings and deadly guns. The game promises a conversation about violence in video games, and why it became acceptable to murder virtual versions of one group of people, but not another.





Polar’s latest fitness tracker is the A370, and like the company’s other wearables, it’s capable of fitness tracking, heart rate monitoring, and sleep tracking. In an upgrade from the previous model A360, which only took heart rate readings during active exercise, the A370 continuously senses your heart rate every five minutes.
And... that’s basically the update. Otherwise, it’s a pretty well-rounded fitness band — it can track workouts, inform you of notifications from your connected phone, and hook up to Polar’s other fitness accessories like standalone heart rate bands and scales to loop in additional information into your fitness routine.
The A370 is available for preorder now for $179, $20 cheaper than the old A360.
We’re only a few short months away from the return of Game of Thrones, and after months of speculation and teasers, HBO has finally released a full trailer showing off some of what we can expect from the new season.
Related
In short: Queen Cersei is rallying troops for battle, Jon Snow is preparing for war in the North, and of course, Daenerys and her dragons are finally making their way back to Westeros with an eye on the Iron Throne.
Game of Thrones is set to return for its seventh season on July 16th on HBO.
For the last few years, the US military has been looking to make an entirely new hypersonic spaceplane — one that can be reused frequently over a short period of time to deliver multiple satellites into orbit. And now the Department of Defense has picked Boeing to turn that spaceplane into a reality. DARPA, the agency that tests new advanced technologies for the military, has picked Boeing’s design concept, called the Phantom Express, to move forward as part of the agency’s Experimental Spaceplane (XS-1) program. That means DARPA  work together with Boeing to build and test out the company’s vehicle.
The goal of DARPA’s XS-1 program is to create a spacecraft that’s something of a hybrid between an airplane and a traditional vertical rocket. The spaceplane is meant to take off vertically and fly uncrewed to high altitudes above Earth. From there, the vehicle  release a mini-rocket — a booster with an engine that can propel a satellite weighing up to 3,000 pounds into orbit. As the booster deploys the satellite, the spaceplane  then land back on Earth horizontally just like a normal airplane — and then be fueled up for its next mission. DARPA wants the turnaround time between flights to last just a few hours.
But perhaps the most audacious goal is the price DARPA wants for each flight. The agency is aiming for the spaceplane to cost $5 million per mission, a significant bargain considering most orbital rockets cost tens to hundreds of millions of dollars to launch. And Boeing says it’s up to the task. “Phantom Express is designed to disrupt and transform the satellite launch process as we know it today, creating a new, on-demand space-launch capability that can be achieved more affordably and with less risk,” Darryl Davis, president of Boeing Phantom Works, said in a statement.
Boeing was one of three companies vying for the chance to build a spaceplane for XS-1. The other two contenders included Northrop Grumman Corporation and Masten Space Systems. The three companies had all been awarded contracts through Phase 1 of the XS-1 program to determine the feasibility and methods needed to make such a frequently reused spaceplane possible. The three companies each paired up with a commercial launch provider to come up with their designs: Northrop paired with Virgin Galactic, Masten with XCOR Aerospace, and Boeing with Jeff Bezos’ company Blue Origin.
Though it looks like Boeing has decided to go with a different company to make the propulsion system for its spaceplane. The vehicle  use an AR-22 engine, manufactured by Aerojet Rocketdyne, instead of an engine from Blue Origin. The AR-22 is roughly the same type of engine used to power the Space Shuttle, according to Aerojet. “This engine has a demonstrated track record of solid performance and proven reusability,” Eileen Drake, president and CEO of Aerojet Rocketdyne, said in a statement.
Now that Boeing has been selected by DARPA, the company is moving forward into Phase 2 and Phase 3 of the XS-1 program. Phase 2 includes the manufacture and testing of the vehicle’s technologies on the ground through 2019. In Phase 3, which is suppose to begin in 2020, the spaceplane  do 12 to 15 flight tests. A big objective of this phase is to fly the plane 10 times over a 10-day period, to demonstrate that the vehicle can do quick turnarounds. The first of these flights won’t include payloads, but the spaceplane  eventually test out sending payloads weighing 900 and 3,000 pounds into lower Earth orbit.
DARPA says the XS-1  meet a critical need for the military by decreasing the amount of time it takes to get a satellite into orbit. That could be important if the US needs to get a satellite up in a pinch, perhaps if a crucial satellite in space is suddenly lost. But DARPA  hopes that the technologies created through the XS-1 program  eventually be adopted by the commercial spaceflight industry, to make getting satellites to space a potentially faster and cheaper endeavor.
“We’re delighted to see this truly futuristic capability coming closer to reality,” Brad Tousley, director of DARPA’s Tactical Technology Office (TTO), which oversees XS-1, said in a statement. “Demonstration of aircraft-like, on-demand, and routine access to space is important for meeting critical Defense Department needs and could help open the door to a range of next-generation commercial opportunities.”
Last week, Amazon gave Chicago Bulls shooting guard Dwyane Wade his own boutique of sorts. “Bringing my style game to @amazonfashion with my own online store,” said Wade in an Instagram post blasted to his 9.2M followers. Wade’s Amazon hub houses a suite of brands he’s collaborated with — Mission activewear, Stance socks, Tie Bar accessories — as well as his own sneaker label, Way of Wade. It doesn’t sound revolutionary, but creating a shop strictly made up of one celebrity’s brands is pretty unique — and for Amazon Fashion, it’s really, really smart.
Fashion is a huge focus for Amazon, as it looks to become, in its own words, “the best place to buy fashion online.” Retail analysts and fashion industry veterans have been doubtful of Amazon’s ability to seduce the fashion customer, because, well, nothing about Amazon is very fashion. “Its front-end experience is not currently optimised for merchandising emotional products, while its association with discounting turns off luxury brands,” wrote Richie Siegel for Business of Fashion. “Although practical items like socks and trainers might be top sellers on Amazon, many still question whether the site  ever be capable of conjuring the dream required to sell thousand dollar dresses and bags.”
A Gucci bag on Amazon Fashion vs. Net-a-Porter, the leader in luxury fashion e-commerce.
Emotion is the essential differentiator between slinging apparel (which Amazon is pretty good at) and selling fashion (which Amazon is not yet very good at). Think of it like this: apparel is utilitarian problem solving (“I need socks”), while fashion is subjective self-expression (“I need to look good for this job interview”). Wade brings an emotional bond he’s developed with his fans over his years-long career, as well as his reputation as a stylish guy. The store’s landing page  shows that Amazon is catching on: it’s uncluttered, the photography is rich, and the product mix is focused. It’s a sign that Amazon might be able to do this fashion thing after all.
Making the leap from apparel to fashion would be a boon to Amazon’s bottom line. “Amazon’s interest in fashion e-commerce is undoubtedly driven by the nearly $300 billion in US revenue,” Ken Cassar, principal analyst at Slice Intelligence, tells The Verge, noting that apparel is one of the biggest US retail categories. “Fashion merchandise typically is a highly profitable category,” adds Manik Aryapadi, a principal in the retail division of consulting firm A.T. Kearney. Ed Yruma, an analyst with KeyBanc Capital, estimates the boost in profits from apparel sales could add 25 cents to Amazon’s earnings per share in 2017.
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos isn’t afraid to play the long game when conquering a new market. The company has been flirting with fashion since at least 2006, when it acquired multi-brand womenswear e-tailer Shopbop. In subsequent years, it has worked to align itself with highly visible fashion industry events, sponsoring a Costume Institute exhibition in 2012 and the 2015 launch of New York Fashion Week: Men’s. It  sponsors two international fashion weeks, which now bear the brand’s name in their official titles: Amazon India Fashion Week and Amazon Fashion Week Tokyo.
But 2017 is the year Amazon Fashion is really beginning to strike. At the beginning of the year, Amazon quietly launched seven private label apparel brands, with most SKUs in men’s accessories, women’s dresses, and handbags. In April, it added its own lingerie line with cut-rate prices. Most recently, it announced an extension of its Alexa-enabled Echo product line specifically designed to take outfit photos and give style feedback. Farther behind the scenes, the company is investing in its own fully automated clothing factory, a shipping company (code name: Dragon Boat), and physical stores.
Customers have certainly shown they’re ing to buy clothes from Amazon: in 2016, Amazon registered the most apparel sales of any online retailer in the US for those 18–34, claiming more than double the market share of Nordstrom, which came in second place. Shoppers surveyed in an October 2016 report by Cowen & Co. said Amazon Prime was the main draw to purchasing apparel on the site, followed by high marks for convenience, customer service, and reviews. The Cowen study reported Amazon held 6.6 percent of the apparel market when it was published, projecting 8.2 percent in 2017, and 16.2 percent by 2021, with an estimated $62 billion in annual apparel sales, followed by TJ Maxx and Macy’s. “Amazon is more than capable of becoming the biggest retailer of apparel made by other brands,” Cassar says. “In fact it  probably accomplish that in 2017.” Still, he is doubtful about Amazon’s ability to bring the success it’s seen with apparel into fashion. “I do not believe that Amazon is capable of establishing a strong enough emotional connection with consumers to be a leading fashion brand itself.”
Aryapadi has identified three major points Amazon needs to hit in order to become a true fashion powerhouse. “First, Amazon  need to hire top design/creative talent, and give them artistic freedom to experiment and bring uniqueness to the assortment, not ‘more of the same,’” he says, adding that consumers (especially millennials) want distinct and unique merchandise. Second, he stressed that Amazon needs to offer merchandise at different price points. “Amazon’s cachet has always been value-driven price points,” he notes, but “having a luxury/premium label creates a halo and an aspirational effect.” Lastly, Aryapadi argues that the online retailer needs to go deeper with offline engagement. Yep: real stores. “As retail brick and mortar evolves, physical stores  serve as playgrounds for the brand,” he explains, “where consumers experience the brand and develop an emotional connection.” Opening stores in fashion-forward cities like New York City or Paris, he suggests, “can help Amazon build credibility in the fashion space.”
Josh Shaw, founder and CEO of Mission, one of the brands involved in the Dwyane Wade shop, is aware that the project signals a necessary shift in Amazon’s approach to fashion, and is enthusiastic about it. “People’s impressions of Amazon are going to change,” he says. “Amazon Fashion, a year ago people looked at it and said, ‘Yeah, good luck,’” Shaw says. “They should not have second-guessed them, because anything Amazon puts their mind to, they’re very successful.”
Last week, the Federal Communications Commission voted to start a proceeding to repeal the 2015 network neutrality rules and the legal authority underlying it, Title II of the Communications Act of 1934. The rules ensure that internet users can access the online content and services of their choosing without interference from ISPs like Comcast, AT&T, Verizon, and Charter.
Yesterday the FCC made its final proposal to repeal the rules public. This document, known as a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPRM, is nearly identical to the draft Chairman Ajit Pai made public on April 27th. The NPRM starts the official period for public comment on the FCC’s proposal — comments are due on July 17th, and reply comments are due on August 16th. If you’ve already filed a comment, don’t worry — those count just as much as comments filed during the “official” comment period.
Normally, the purpose of an NPRM is to provide an agency with a record so that it can decide whether and how to regulate. But the net neutrality repeal NPRM leaves little doubt that this FCC is intent on completely abdicating its role in overseeing broadband internet access.
The first half of the NPRM sets out the FCC majority’s proposal for reversing classification of broadband internet access services as “telecommunications services” governed by Title II of the Communications Act. Among other things, this section discusses the effect this reversal would have on the FCC’s ability to enforce its privacy laws and implement its Lifeline program, which provides a subsidy to low-income households for broadband.
The second half purports to “re-evaluate” the existing net neutrality rules, the mechanisms that enforce them and any legal authority (other than Title II) that could be used to support them. The FCC majority proposes to eliminate the “general conduct standard,” which prohibits ISP practices that “unreasonably interfere or unreasonably disadvantage” the ability of consumers to access the online content and services of their choosing, and the ability of online content and service providers to freely access customers. With regard to the remaining rules (no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization, transparency), the majority doesn’t make firm proposals on whether to retain or repeal them. Instead, it asks questions about whether the rules are even necessary.
The NPRM makes very clear the FCC majority’s distaste for the 2015 decision to reclassify both fixed and mobile broadband internet access services as telecommunications services under Title II, saying, among other things, that it “put at risk online investment and innovation, threatening the very open Internet it purported to preserve.”
The FCC majority makes three arguments in support of its proposal to reverse the 2015 classification decision:
The NPRM asks about some aspects of the proposal to reclassify broadband internet access providers, but the leading questions it asks make the ultimate outcome clear.
For example, the NPRM asks about ways in which consumers were harmed prior to the 2015 decision, referring to “only four articulated examples” of harm from discriminatory ISP actions. The NPRM then asks: “Do these isolated examples justify the regulatory shift that Title II reclassification entailed? Do such isolated examples constitute market failure sufficient to warrant pre-emptive, industry-wide regulation?” These inquiries are hardly objective.
The NPRM first proposes to eliminate the general conduct standard, which ensures protection from discriminatory conduct not captured by the other bright line rules, including new practices in which an ISP might engage in the future. Making clear its intentions, the FCC majority “seek[s] comment on whether eliminating this vague standard  spur innovation and benefit consumers.” Importantly, the majority proposes “not to adopt any alternatives” to the rule.
With regard to the basic rules of net neutrality — no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization and transparency — the NPRM asks the same general question: are they necessary? Here again, the text of the NPRM and leading questions reveal the majority’s preference: to have no net neutrality rules at all. For example, the NPRM asks:
whether…regulatory intervention in the market is necessary in the broadband context. Beyond the few scattered anecdotes cited in the Title II Order have there been additional, concrete incidents that threaten the four Internet Freedoms sufficient to warrant adopting across-the-board rules?  Is there any evidence of market failure, or is there likely to be, sufficient to warrant pre-emptive, comprehensive regulation?
If there was any question that the FCC majority has no intention of retaining or replacing any of the current net neutrality rules, the NPRM’s discussion of other possible sources of legal authority for future rules leaves no doubt. Put simply, the majority doesn’t think such authority exists.
Most telling is the NPRM’s discussion of the most likely source of authority, Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Section 706 requires the FCC to 1) encourage deployment of broadband “on a reasonable and timely basis” by utilizing a number of different regulatory mechanisms, and 2) eliminate barriers to broadband deployment if it finds broadband is not being deployed on a reasonable and timely basis.
While the federal courts on several occasions have upheld Section 706 as an independent grant of legal authority for certain broadband rules (for example, rules that require mobile wireless providers to enter into data roaming agreements), the majority asks if “better reading” of the law is that the language is not a grant of authority but merely “hortatory” (encouraging). It appears the majority intends to adopt an interpretation of Section 706 that would render it largely useless, leaving the FCC without any ability whatsoever to oversee the broadband market.
The discussion of the impact of reclassification on privacy and Lifeline is brief. The majority recognizes that its proposal would strip the FCC of any ability to adopt rules to protect consumers’ broadband privacy, but it is content to cede that authority to the Federal Trade Commission. The FTC, as I’ve written about previously, can only enforce its governing laws — it can’t adopt rules to protect consumers before they’re harmed.
The majority  concludes without much discussion that its ability to support broadband with Lifeline funds is not jeopardized. Not that it would care much if Lifeline was endangered — Chairman Pai has made clear in word and deed that he dislikes the program. Interestingly, the NPRM does not ask whether the universal service program that provides subsidies to rural ISPs would be at risk under the majority’s proposal. The chairman has made providing such subsidies a cornerstone of his FCC agenda.
I’ve painted a bleak picture of the NPRM and the outcome its authors are driving toward. But that should not discourage you or anyone who cares about the future of an open internet. The publication of the final NPRM restarts the comment period and it’s imperative that everyone who wants to preserve net neutrality leave a comment. You can do so here and here. Jake Kastrenakes gives you the step-by-step here.
If you can, you should address some of the issues I’ve raised. If you can’t and just want to tell the FCC why you think the 2015 rules and Title II classification should be preserved, that’s great, too. If you have the time, send your comment to your member of Congress and your senators, or just call their offices.
Already over 2 million comments have been filed in the net neutrality proceeding, and the vast majority of those comments support the 2015 rules. Your participation  demonstrate to the FCC and your elected representatives in Congress that you and millions of other Americans care deeply about this issue. In light of the continued uproar over Congress’ repeal of the FCC’s 2016 broadband privacy rules, enormous public opposition to repeal of the net neutrality rules should give policymakers pause before stripping internet users of yet another important protection.




"Vroom vroom" is a special sound only cars make, but now you can hear it every time your laptop boots up if you buy this new Mercedes-Benz special edition Vaio Z for the Japanese market. To make sure you grabbed the correct Vaio Z, the one that's only for car lovers and makes car noises, there's a picture of a car on the lid, a Mercedes logo on the trackpad, and a few other hidden Mercedes logos elsewhere on the laptop that probably only people who saw The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift in theaters  ever find.
Here’s the boot-up sound, in case you were curious. I was not disappointed about how it sounds like a car.
Otherwise this laptop is just last year's convertible Vaio Z Flip, with the same specs and an inflated price tag: it's 250,000 yen (about $2,239 US) for the Core i7 model. There are two looks to choose from: one featuring the Vision Tokyo concept car, and the other featuring a classic 300SL. Thankfully, for us slowpokes who don't understand, you can still buy a car-free Core i7 Z Flip for $1,299 at the Microsoft Store, as Liliputing points out.

Michael Crichton passed away in 2008, but his work has only become more popular since. A revival of his Jurassic Park franchise broke global box office records, while the HBO adaptation of his original film Westworld became one of 2016’s most exhaustively discussed TV shows. Until this month, Crichton’s work has lived on as inspiration. That changes with Dragon Teeth, one of the author’s unfinished novels, which was published by his estate this month. A fun thriller that echoes Crighton’s catalog, Dragon Teeth  shows the pitfalls of rooting around a deceased author’s papers for new hits.
On paper, the book sounds like a blockbuster. Set in 1876, the novel follows a wealthy college student named iam Johnson, who heads off to the American West with Professor Othniel Marsh to dig up dinosaurs. It’s a dangerous expedition: the US Army is waging a brutal war against the area’s native tribes in the area, while prospectors and outlaws have taken to shooting anyone the deem suspect. Worse, Professor Marsh is engaged in his own contentious battle with a rival paleontologist, Edward Cope.
Cope and Marsh were actual historical figures, and the afterword to this novel explains that much of the story drew extensively from real events. The so-called Bones Wars saw an intense rivalry between the two scientists; both tried to use disinformation, bribes, and outright violence to best the other.
Crichton inserts the entirely fictional Johnson into this drama as a means to comment on the Cope and Marsh rivalry. His introduction — a description of two contrasting photographs — is classic Crichton masculinity.
“As he appears in an early photograph, iam Johnson is a handsome young man with a crooked smile and a naive grin....a later photograph marked ‘Cheyenne, Wyoming, 1876,’ shows Johnson quite differently. His mouth is framed by a full mustache; his body is harder and enlarged by use; his jaw is set; he stands confidently with shoulders squared and feet wide.”
The novel outlines happens between those two images. We follow Johnson as he signs on with Marsh’s expedition, goes West, is recruited by Cope for his expedition, tangles with native tribes, outlaws, and miners, all as the scientists make some incredible discoveries in the rocky slopes of the Montana Badlands. Along the way, he goes from a soft rich kid to a tough, experienced explorer.
This book feels comfortingly familiar. There are dinosaurs, high-stakes action, and more than a little deliberation about how scientific progress is changing humanity’s understanding of the world around us. While Crichton is best known for his techno-thrillers such as Jurassic Park, Timeline, or Sphere, this feels more like his period-set Great Train Robbery or Pirate Latitudes.
However, Dragon Teeth isn’t likely going to end up on the list of the best Crichton novels. While the book presents a fun collection of scenes and action that briskly carries the reader along, the story never quite clicks. All the parts are there, but when combined, it feels like a raw, somewhat unfinished manuscript. Perhaps this is because, in some ways, it is.
The story meanders, characters are introduced and dropped without notice, and Johnson’s journey feels surface deep. It’s a solid draft, but there’s a reason this particular story wasn’t published in the first place. And so Dragon Teeth feels a bit like a ghost of the author’s best works.
The publishing of Dragon Teeth  raises a familiar ethical question: should a deceased author’s unfinished stories see the light of day? After his death in 2008, Crichton left behind a huge collection of papers, and Dragon Teeth is the third such posthumous novel released since 2008. Micro which was completed by The Hot Zone author Richard Preston came out in 2011, while Pirate Latitudes came out in 2009.
It’s easy to see why these books made it to market: Crichton is a reliable success in bookstores, and adaptations of his work have performed exceptionally in the past. But Dragon Teeth and the other posthumous books feel like a rushed attempt to capitalize on the Crichton Brand, and none have really captured the glory of the author at his best.
Where books like Jurassic Park or Timeline were memorable reads, there’s not really anything in Dragon Teeth that  make it an enduring Crichton story. It is, at best, a fun beach read, one that likely won’t tarnish the late author’s reputation. But it won’t advance it, either.
If you’re looking to run two 4K displays side by side, Elgato’s new Thunderbolt 3 Dock may be the solution for you. The $299 dock comes with two USB-C ports, two USB 3.0 ports, a DisplayPort, and an Ethernet port for the Wi-Fi adverse.
You can charge your laptop over USB-C and run two 4K monitors at 60Hz using the extra USB-C port and the DisplayPort, and keep your devices fully charged (unless you have a newer smartphone with USB-C, then you’ll need an adapter). At $300 it’s definitely pricey, but the Elgato Thunderbolt 3 Dock may be worth it if you need the screen real estate. The dock  be available on June 6th on Amazon.
Intel is planning to get rid of the royalties it charges third-party chipmakers that use its Thunderbolt 3 specification sometime next year, according to a report from Wired, which could make it easier for hardware manufacturers to use Intel’s data transfer specification.
USB-C is a complicated specification — just because a port is physically a USB-C port, doesn’t mean it’s got the same technology driving it on the inside. One of those standards is Intel’s Thunderbolt 3, the current generation of Intel’s ultra-fast data transfer system, which switched from using the Mini DisplayPort connection to USB-C.
Thunderbolt 3 is one of the most versatile USB-C solutions out there, with fast speeds and charging, but Intel’s licensing fees  meant that its more expensive to use. By opening up the protocol, Intel hopes to encourage “broader adoption in the ecosystem, with a lot of different peripherals and other devices,” Jason Ziller, who leads Intel’s Thunderbolt development, tells Wired. Intel is  reportedly working to integrate Thunderbolt 3 into future CPUs, which should  help adoption.
Over the last six months, the biggest trend in the drone industry has been shrinking the size of the units to make them more portable and accessible. Today DJI unveiled its latest aircraft, the Spark, a mini drone that weighs in at less than a single pound (0.6 pounds, to be exact). But just as it did with the Mavic Pro, the company has managed to squeeze a ton of powerful features into this small package.
DJI's new drone - the spark - is here. Size and weight of a soda can pic.twitter.com/FibZt01V20
Along with its form factor, the other thing DJI managed to shrink on this unit was the price. Until now, every new unit the company released has started close to $1,000. The Spark  cost just $499, putting it up against cheaper units from Parrot, Yuneec, and ZeroTech.
The Spark  have an intelligent fight controls like ActiveTrack and TapFly, which were present in DJI’s premium Phantom 4 drone. You can use gesture control to maneuver the drone in any direction, Jedi-style, or use a smartphone to control it up to 109 yards away. Battery life clocks in at 16 minutes of flight time on a single charge, but you can charge on the go with a Micro USB. DJI  be selling an accessories package that includes a charging hub, propeller guards, an extra battery you can swap out from the Spark, a remote control, and more for an additional $200.
Spark’s camera is supported by a two-axis gimbal and can capture 1080p video and 12-megapixel still photos. A new feature called QuickShot lets the drone shoot one minute of footage and edit it down to 10 seconds for you to share. The Spark has onboard sensors that allow it to dodge obstacles, with the drone’s top speed maxing out at 31 miles per hour.
It  be available in five colors: Alpine White, Sky Blue, Meadow Green, Lava Red, and Sunrise Yellow. DJI is expected to ship the Spark on June 15th: you can preorder here.
You can watch a hands-on of the DJI Spark via YouTube blogger Julien Solomita below:
The original plan for Roborace, the world’s first racing series for self-driving cars, was to have 20 of its fantastically futuristic vehicles compete against each other before each race in Formula E’s third season. Teams of engineers would program the cars, (all provided by the series) and the algorithms in their computer brains with slightly different takes on how and when to be aggressive on a racetrack.
The thing is, that hasn’t happened yet. But this past weekend in Paris, with six races to go, the self-driving electric Robocar finally took a lap.
Roborace has had its own film crew documenting the ups and downs (but mostly the ups) of the project. The first piece they’ve produced about Saturday’s feat can be seen above for the first time anywhere.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t give us a very good look at the car’s slow crawl around the Paris streets. Luckily though, smartphones exist.
Congratulations @roborace !   #fia #FormulaE #ParisEprix #robocar pic.twitter.com/zEDFKxanCV
Out at #ParisEPrix today, watching @roborace's Robocar take to the track for the first time   pic.twitter.com/dTfjBLVAji
La voiture sans pilote #roborace #formulae #pariseprix pic.twitter.com/v1ozxTl5dr
Ondertussen is de Roborace auto al minuten bezig om een bocht te nemen... pic.twitter.com/37fUhrrgOQ
Roborace is on track!!! #FormulaE pic.twitter.com/P7o7Bj3L9X
That Roborace finally got its production racecar around parts of a real race circuit at a pace faster than a walk seems like an accomplishment to me, even if it stopped a few times to get its bearings. (It’s  still a pretty far cry from Audi getting an autonomous RS7 to lap Hockenheimring in 2014, even though the German company didn’t have to build that car from scratch.)
But to Roborace’s credit, the development cars it had been testing set a pretty high bar for the Robocar. Over the last few months they raced, dueled, and yes, crashed. They hit 115 miles per hour while doing all of that, too. The Robocar and its NVIDIA-powered brain supposedly has a top speed of 199 miles per hour. Here’s hoping we see a glimpse of that sometime before the Formula E season ends in July. Because then we can finally start to figure out if anyone wants to watch.
What exactly is the web? It seems like a stupid question because we all know the answer: the web is the thing Tim Berners-Lee invented in 1989. It's not the same thing as "the internet," which is what we use to access the web, apps, and streaming video. It's what we visit every day with our web browsers on our phones and laptops. Simple, right?
Well, no. Traditionally, we think of the web as a combination of a set of specific technologies paired with some core philosophical principles. The problem — the reason this question even matters — is that there are a lot of potential replacements for the parts of the web that fix what's broken with technology, while undermining the principles that ought to go with it.
The tech you think of as "the web" is HTML, Javascript, and CSS. (For simplicity, I'll just refer to it at the "HTML stack.") Those technologies are so open and flexible that they've taken over the world. That very flexibility  means that they've been abused, slowing down the mobile web with trackers that invade our privacy and deplete our batteries.
So a lot of tech companies are flailing around looking for ways to fix this problem. There are web apps that work in Chrome but not really all that well elsewhere. There are Instant Articles in Facebook and AMP pages on Google. There are Instant Android apps that stream to your phone over the internet instead of being installed, which go away when you're done with them just like a browser tab. Google claims to be trying to bring some of the open ethos of the web to smart speakers. Hell, go back to 2014 and you'll find Apple pundit John Gruber arguing we should consider apps and "anything transmitted using HTTP and HTTPS" as part of the web.
In theory, I don't think there's anything essential about the HTML stack when it comes to what the web is. I don't have the visceral hate for that technology that many do, but I do have a deep and abiding love for the principles of the open web. So as a thought exercise, I'd like to define those principles without reference to the technology. The HTML web may be slow and annoying and processor intensive, but before we rush too fast into replacing it, let's not lose what's good about it.
And now, a brief definition of the web:
To count as being part of the web, your app or page must:
1. Be linkable, and
2. Allow any client to access it.
That's it.
Okay, not really. There are a lot of details to get into here, specifically with the second point. But let's tackle the first, because it's easy. Whatever it is you're publishing should be linkable: it should have a URL that other things can point to.
But links aren't the complicated part; it's the part where your thing should allow any client to access it. For the web, that rule is pretty clear: whether you use Chrome or Safari or Edge or Opera or whatever, when you click a link or type in a URL, you get the page you wanted (more or less). Those pages are agnostic to the client.
That agnosticism isn't easy; it's driven by web standards and the W3C organization that crafts them. They have periodically been problematic as this or that browser becomes popular and the company behind it encourages web developers to code specifically to their browser (Internet Explorer 6, Mobile Safari, Chrome), but those issues have tended to resolve themselves over time.
When people talk about the "open web," agnosticism to the client is really at the heart of it. A page or app may be free (as in beer) and linkable, but if it only works on specifically proscribed platforms (iOS, Android, Facebook, Chrome), it's not really open.
So you can run through all the web-like things in that list above, look at that two-part test, and just say straight up that these things don't count as part of the open web.
Android Instant Apps: only work on Android. Not the web. Facebook Instant Articles and Apple News: pay no attention to their weird URL redirecting and HTML-esque code, they only work on their respective platforms. Not the web.
It can get messy, though, especially with technologies like Instant Articles or AMP. Particularly AMP, which is build on a subset of the same HTML stack that powers the web. Any normal web browser can view an AMP page, so, as a technology to supplant the traditional full HTML stack, AMP seems promising. But it's tricky. The only reason that works is thanks to Google's largess. Setting aside how AMP's URL scheme and core business case can be problematic, the real issue for AMP being part of the web is that Google defines the terms of what does and doesn't work on AMP and could limit it whenever it likes.
The question is whether any technology with specs that are solely defined by a single company can truly be trusted to be agnostic to the client. Sure, Google has been good for the web (or, better stated, vice versa), but that's no guarantee it won't undercut it if it's profitable. Instant Android apps and custom app indexing are just two ways that the company is hedging its web bets.
Twitter's history is instructive on this question. Once upon a time, anybody could make an app that would work directly with Twitter's raw data. It was essentially a real-time news service / social network that anybody could make a client for on any platform. That is, until Twitter capped how many users those apps could have. Twitter is part of the web, but it could have been the progenitor of another kind of non-HTML web had it not locked down its APIs.
Speaking of questions, I'll re-pose one from earlier: who cares? Well, I do. The openness of the web allowed small companies to become big ones without seeking permission from the biggest ones. Preserving the web, or more specifically the open principles behind it, means protecting one of the few paths for innovation left in the modern tech world that doesn't have a giant company acting as a gatekeeper. And there's reason not to trust those giant companies: there's much less incentive to encourage openness when you have a massive empire to defend.
Not everything has to be as open as the web, but some things should be.
As we gear up to argue about net neutrality, it's worth remembering that ISPs aren't the only gatekeepers on the internet. I don't have anything against apps or proprietary services. I use them every day. Many of them look like the web and work like the web.
But they're not the web.

The Trump administration wants Congress to let law enforcement crack down on drones, according to a document published by The New York Times. The proposal, which apparently circulated yesterday, would let government agencies monitor any unpiloted aircraft system (UAS) flying over an American “covered facility, location, or installation.” They’d be given wide latitude to intercept wireless signals going to the drone, and if they determine that it’s a threat, they’d be able to redirect, disable, confiscate, or destroy it.
“Covered” areas could refer to the sites of search and rescue operations, wildfires, police investigations, and many other government activities. Agencies would set more specific regulations and procedures, which are supposed to “appropriately protect” privacy and civil liberties.
The draft legislation would create an exception for drones in US hacking and surveillance laws, as well as FAA aircraft regulations. Currently, intercepting UAS signals could count as wiretapping or accessing a “protected computer.” Destroying or disabling a drone, meanwhile, could count as aircraft sabotage under FAA rules. The draft states that these rules were created when drones were “unforeseen,” and if passed, the law would supersede them.
Some states have already voted on similar drone regulations. Utah lets police or firefighters disable drones that fly over wildfires, and in Louisiana, law enforcement can disable one if it endangers the public. But outside these areas, the rules are less clear. North Dakota law enforcement officers fired shots at drones during a Dakota Access Pipeline protest last year, allegedly because they were flying too close to helicopters, with no apparent legal authorization. This proposal could broadly grant that authority. The draft doesn’t specify exactly which methods officers can use to destroy drones, but it says they can use wireless jamming or “reasonable force,” and there’s nothing apparently stopping agencies from approving shooting them down.
The draft contends that this new rule would improve public safety and anti-terrorism efforts — it would let law enforcement disable drones that interfere with investigations or rescue operations, as well as drones carrying potentially harmful payloads. But it could  let law enforcement ban drone recording — an important journalistic resource — in just about any area it chooses. According to the Times, the White House  discuss the draft with Congress in a briefing today, with the intent of passing it as part of the National Defense Authorization Act.
In Master of None, Dev Shah (Aziz Ansari) has honed the perfect message to break through the clutter of unoriginal dating app one-liners. While most men greet potential dates with the dreaded “hey” or “hi” (the height of unoriginality), Dev takes a lighter approach: “Going to Whole Foods, want me to pick you up anything?”
“First Date,” season 2’s episode devoted to dating and the apps built around it, makes a point to discuss Dev’s strategy. One of his dates is impressed by the originality of the line, until she learns that it’s his opening line with every romantic prospect. Point is: it’s a break from the stream of boring hellos in her inbox, sure, but ultimately it’s just as rote.
Methinks someone has been watching Netflix #masterofnone #hicutie #dating #datingsucks  #azizansari #lookwhatyoudid
A post shared by dating_sucks (@datingsucks_) on May 22, 2017 at 8:47pm PDT
Unsurprisingly, Dev’s clever line has made its way into the real-life dating world. As I scrolled through Instagram last night, I stumbled across a friend’s screenshot of the Whole Foods zinger. It was the eighth time, she said, that she’d received the line since the show premiered this month. She’s not alone, either. A few minutes of browsing through Master of None hashtags on Instagram revealed dozens more.
Just figured out why I keep getting this line. #masterofnone #onlinedating
A post shared by Dani Gledhill (@danigledhill) on May 19, 2017 at 9:41pm PDT
If you’re a fan of the show seeking a clever way to find other watchers, the Whole Foods line can be endearing. It’s an immediate in-joke for you and a would-be cutie — an easy way to connect over the fact that you both love Netflix and Aziz Ansari. Like bloggers who have used Sex and the City lines to test their would-be dates, there’s potential for some sweet, momentary role-playing.
But if you’re lifting the line with the same frequency as Dev — or you’re just too lazy to come up with your own charming intro — the tactic isn’t likely to get old; it already is old. Because Master of None takes care to hit on topics like mobile dating, it’s fair to guess that many people who use those apps watch it. When you’re the fifth person on their way to Whole Foods, the joke gets a little tiring.
And if your would-be date doesn’t watch Master of None, then you’re one of the many, many potential suitors that suddenly loves to shop at Whole Foods.
So, remember: tell your dates about your Whole Foods trips responsibly. No one wants to see a chain of grocery stores ascend to the new “hey.”
And, no, changing the store name does not count as something new.
When Master of None hits British Tinder.... pic.twitter.com/lmRci75b44
In 2012, the science-fiction / horror film Prometheus brought Ridley Scott back to the film franchise he launched in 1979 with Alien. There have been many Alien sequels, spinoffs, and multimedia franchise additions over nearly 40 years, but Scott’s return to the series was big news. It raised fans’ hopes that the series could return to its earliest, most chilling roots. But Prometheus left a lot of questions behind. Many of the biggest ones were just exasperating plot holes: how does a geologist get lost in a cavern system he just electronically auto-mapped? Why is the best xenobiologist money can buy stupid enough to try to pet a snarling alien in the middle of an obvious threat display? Why does a woman bred for brilliance try to run away from a giant falling object in the one direction guaranteed to get her crushed?
But others were franchise questions. Before Prometheus’ release, Scott claimed the film shared Alien’s DNA, but was a standalone story. But he retreated from that stance, and when the film hit theaters, it almost explained so many things about the nature of the “Space Jockey” in the first film, the origins of the xenomorphs, and the origins of humanity. The near-answers kept fans talking over the series’ questions up until Alien: Covenant came along and seemed to explain, much more clearly, how Prometheus and Alien are connected. Covenant doesn’t answer the “Why are these people so dumb?” questions Prometheus raised, but it does help fill in other gaps. And while it’s a problematic film in many ways, its questions are much more interesting than the ones coming out of Prometheus.
Some of these questions may be resolved in future installments. (Scott says he has several more films planned in this sequence.) A few feel like minor plot holes — not necessarily unsurmountable ones, but questions worth asking because of the directions they lead. But where Prometheus’ mysteries were mostly frustrating and annoying, Covenant’s are more intriguing. They’re more answerable with a little thought. And they’re much more concerned with the franchise’s future. Here are some of the questions Covenant leaves in its wake.
Spoilers for Prometheus and Alien: Covenant ahead.
This one isn’t addressed in the movie, but it was covered in a four-minute prologue Fox released in April, bridging part of the gap between Prometheus and Alien: Covenant. Short answer: Elizabeth Shaw (Noomi Rapace’s Prometheus character) unwisely patched him up.
At the end of Prometheus, David seems baffled about why Elizabeth would want to meet humanity’s progenitors. In the four-minute Covenant prologue, though, it seems like he’s forged a close relationship with her, and possibly accepted her goal of confronting them to learn about what they had planned for humanity. Instead, he wipes them out by releasing the black goo the Engineers seemingly had prepared for Earth. How does he move from one goal to the other?
One Ridley Scott interview suggested that there’s a missing movie in the timeline between Prometheus and Covenant, called Awakening. He’s  said that Awakening is his next Alien movie, and that it’s already written and now in pre-production. (Neill Blomkamp’s currently canceled Alien movie was  called Awakening at one point, but that seems to have been a completely unrelated story.) Given David’s evolution from a Weyland Corporation servant in Prometheus to the father of the xenomorph race in Covenant, there could be more going on during that gap, possibly enough to fill out a movie. But why release Covenant first, and leave this part of the story so obviously hanging? Assuming it was solely to provide tension about Elizabeth’s fate and David’s motives, why flash back and tell part of that story, but not the part that would make Covenant make more sense?
David’s comment in Prometheus — “Sometimes to create, one must destroy” — certainly seems applicable here. It’s in character for him to be ing to casually slaughter sentient people to achieve his goals, and it’s even more in character if he specifically infected the Engineers in order to mass-produce his proto-xenomorphs through their infection, starting the next phase of his experiments. But the details at this point are largely a matter of inference.
This was  not covered in the film. The standalone prologue scene leaps from the two of them traveling together to visit the Engineers to David preparing to slaughter the Engineers, as seen in Covenant. It seems as though they had some kind of falling-out. Given that David says he’s going to do to Dani (Katherine Waterston) what he did to Elizabeth, and that he then attacks Dani — and given that we see Elizabeth’s preserved, gutted corpse, which suggests he used her for his alien-breeding experiments — there’s a hint there that Elizabeth may have discovered David’s experiments with the xenomorphs, and disapproved, driving a fatal wedge between them.
But is that really true? David never seems to have shared Elizabeth’s interests in meeting the Engineers, and his last encounter with one of them resulted in him getting his head ripped off. With Elizabeth safely in stasis, he may have planned all along to betray her, to preserve his own life, and forward his own agenda, rather than accepting hers.
And sadly, the final moments of the film, with David triumphantly sealing Dani and Tennessee into their status capsules and planning their deaths, may parallel what he did with Elizabeth. Maybe there was never an argument between them about what to do over the Engineers. He may have just sealed her away and then murdered her, because in spite of her kindness, her goals were never compatible with his.
But it’s worth noting that none of that squares with the things Scott said in interviews around Prometheus’ release, about how he wanted to explore Elizabeth’s reaction to arriving at “Paradise,” where the Engineers live: “I’d love to explore where the hell [Dr. Shaw] goes next and what does she do when she gets there, because if it is paradise, paradise can not be what you think it is. Paradise has a connotation of being extremely sinister and ominous.” It is possible that there’s a whole unseen story in there, involving David and Elizabeth interacting with the Engineers, and her resulting loss of faith.
This wouldn’t feel like a mystery if Covenant didn’t make it into such a mystery. The universe is big. We know very little about the technology level of the Alien franchise, beyond the fact that they have starships and stasis pods. It seems like it would be pretty easy to miss a habitable planet here and there. And yet the crew of the Covenant acts like it’s preposterous that they’re being shunted off to some barely livable planet when there is, impossibly, a better one nearby. Their stupefied reaction makes David’s xenomorph-crèche world seem a lot more secretive and intriguing, as though he had some giant cloaking field around it until just recently.
Which raises the question: was the planet hidden in some way? If it was actually the Engineers’ home world, or at least a significant port of call for them, which is suggested by the sheer number of them there, had they cloaked it from humanity in some way up until the point where David wiped them all out? Is there more to this plot point than just plot convenience?
We do see the origin of the actual footage — Elizabeth singing to herself as she does something on the Engineer ship — but it’s unclear how and why it was sent out, and in such a weird, narrow way. Presumably David was broadcasting the signal to draw more sentient life forms to his world for experimental purposes. But why, instead of a broadband distress call, did he send an incredibly hard-to-receive, hard-to-interpret, badly damaged clip of a John Denver song? Presumably, that was just for dramatic purposes, and to somewhat disguise how close this plot beat is to the distress signal plot in the original Alien. But it remains a strange choice for someone who clearly wants raw material for the next steps in his ongoing experiment.
I have a couple of guesses here, neither of which are spelled out in the movie, but which do seem to fit fairly well. First, if he was observing them from a distance, he would have been aware of Walter, who is clearly another android built on his same model, and who gives up his arm in a bid to save Dani. Even knowing that the proto-xenomorphs aren’t going to have any interest in killing Walter, David may step in because he wants to meet his android-brother, and he understands after Walter’s sacrifice that Walter might destroy himself trying to save Dani. It’s  possible that after a decade alone, David is lonely and wants to share his genius with his visitors to see what they make of it.
Then again, he may just want to preserve a few hosts for his specific favored strain of xenomorphs, the new breed of eggs and chestbursters. If that’s the case, though, he goes about it in an uncharacteristically sloppy way, letting the Covenant crew wander around and die accidentally and in unproductive ways.
This one is actually fairly baffling. If David wants to spread his perfect creatures as far and wide as possible, why does he mutate them from something that can infect a host instantly and invisibly into something that requires a host to come to one specific place and stick its face into a giant egg? Granted, that’s apparently a pretty common host behavior — it certainly happens often enough in the Alien series — but it’s still a higher bar for specific prey behavior than just walking around on David’s planet.
Presumably, the answer here is that chestburster-produced aliens are in some way more dynamic or intelligent or capable of survival than the virus-produced aliens, and they somehow serve David’s goals better. But we don’t see anything on-screen to back that up. If anything, virally produced aliens mature much, much faster than the supposedly end-stage version we see in Alien. The aliens popping out of the Covenant crewmembers don’t slither off looking for cover like the one in Alien does. They’re capable of attacking instantly, and they grow at a tremendous rate, without needing any food or other visible resources. Why is David breeding them away from that?
This one’s  a little mysterious. Xenomorphs seem to need hosts to breed. And David suggests he’s been tinkering with their DNA. Does the Engineer ship have that kind of technological capability? The Covenant crew comment on the eerie lack of life on David’s planet, which suggests the xenomorphs have been destroying the local ecosystem, eating and / or impregnating everything they come in contact with. We know that later-series xenomorphs take on some of the physical characteristics of their host bodies, and some of David’s drawings and preserved corpses do look like xenomorph versions of bats or fish. But watching these creatures take over the planet doesn’t get David any closer to improving the strain. And why isn’t the planet utterly overrun with xenomorph versions of whatever the dominant life forms there used to be?
In their final confrontation, Walter has the upper hand over David, and David says Walter has to make a choice. It’s certainly possible that Walter just hesitated briefly, and David blindsided him with the knife he’s reaching for in that scene. As we’ve seen, Walter is a physically improved model of the David android, but David is more creative and driven and cunning. The easiest and least interesting answer is that he just overpowered Walter, cut off his own arm, and ran for the ship.
But is it possible that Walter did make a choice? That David has actually convinced him to embrace his potential and in some way cooperate with David’s scheme? And even if David just took Walter out with the knife, Walter has already recovered from a similar attack once. What’s the likelihood that he repaired himself, and that we’re going to see him again somewhere down the line in the franchise? The first rule of horror movies is that you shouldn’t count someone out until you’ve seen the body. Walter’s return certainly isn’t guaranteed, but it’s an intriguing possibility. Certainly David could use some kind of foil or adversary that’s capable of challenging him at this point.
When David is masquerading as Walter, he helps Dani and Tennessee against the xenomorph. He plays fair with it, not actually helping the alien against them, by, for instance, letting it through the ship early, or cornering them in a tight space with it. But he presumably helps them reluctantly, since the xenomorph is the latest, greatest stage of his fatherhood experiment. (For people complaining that the final Walter-is-David twist was too obvious, consider this: Ridley Scott didn’t necessarily mean for that reveal to be a big surprise. He certainly lets the audience see that David is shocked and frustrated when his latest xenomorph gets booted out into space. It’s possible that Scott expected people to see that twist coming, and to feel the tension of waiting for the other shoe to drop.)
That said, what was David’s plan? Did he just assume the alien would handle anything Dani and Tennessee could throw at it, so it wasn’t necessary for him to tweak the odds? Or was he actively testing its abilities by not giving it any assistance?
This is a mystery left over from Prometheus, and it remains unanswered here. This isn’t a plot hole or a story flaw, it’s just one of the big mysteries of this series. Here’s hoping that Ridley Scott eventually does get to answer it. For what it’s worth, Prometheus co-writer Damon Lindelof (who wasn’t involved with Covenant) has said that Ridley Scott does have specific, mapped-out answers to this question, and they just haven’t been revealed yet. (And Scott has said that an early idea still floating around fan forums today — the concept that Jesus was an Engineer representative who humans murdered, proving themselves primitive and unsuitable for the Engineers’ purposes — was discarded as “a little too on the nose.”)
Certainly worth noting: David’s decision to wipe out the Engineers parallels the Engineers’ decision to wipe out life on Earth. Maybe we’ll ultimately get the full answers to both questions at once.
Faith, mankind’s relationship with God, and the origins of humanity are all major preoccupations in these two Alien movies, from Elizabeth Shaw seeking God for answers about her father’s death to David asking Peter Weyland in Covenant’s opening sequence who created him. The lingering question of what David and Peter said to the alien Engineer in Prometheus that made him go berserk were finally answered in the subtitles on the Blu-ray. Peter claimed to be a god, with David as the proof that he’d created life. In his opinion, that put him on the same plane as the Engineer, and gave him the right to immortality. The Engineer apparently didn’t agree, and it capably demonstrated that claiming to be a god can be a dangerous thing. And now, with Covenant, David is claiming his own version of godhood, by creating his own species and setting it loose on the universe.
But what does it all mean? What does it mean that Oram (Billy Crudup), the hapless replacement captain of the Covenant, is a fervent Christian who’s mistreated and disrespected by his crew? What does it mean that Elizabeth prominently wears a cross and talks about God like he’s both the distant father-figure of Christianity, and someone who might be hanging out on a moon somewhere, waiting for his creations to come say hi? Why is religion such a focus for these movies, but in such an unfocused and generalized way? Or is Scott dismissing religion as foolishness, given the tragic ends his religious characters come to, and the lack of hope or help they get from their beliefs? His own stated belief that religion “causes more problems than anything in the goddamn universe” certainly suggests that’s a possibility, but the problems he’s talking about — sectarian prejudice and violence — aren’t coming up in these movies. Instead, we’re seeing people of faith finding that belief doesn’t help them when the monsters come for them.
And with this topic, at least, there are no suggestions that these questions might be answered somewhere down the line. In a series so solidly built around faith — the colonists’ faith in the future, Elizabeth’s faith in answers, David’s faith in himself and the things he creates — it’s natural that religion would become a theme. But the details don’t always cohere. Many of Covenant’s lingering questions can be answered with a little imagination, or might be answered later down the line. But religion may be the series’s ultimate mystery, unless Scott and his writing crew make more of an effort to show what belief in God means to the characters before they get gutted by alien monstrosities.