
MADRID Britain's Dan Evans and Kyle Edmund made it through to the second round of the Barcelona Open on Monday.
Evans recovered from a set down to defeat Brazilian qualifier Thiago Monteiro 6-7 6-2 7-6 and will play Mischa Zverev, the German 14th seed who knocked Andy Murray out of the Australian Open in January, in the second round.
Edmund sailed through in straight sets 6-3 6-4 against world number 70 Jeremy Chardy and will face fourth seed Dominic Thiem of Austria.
Local favorite Tommy Robredo lost 6-4 6-3 to Yuichi Sugita of Japan. However, there was better news for the home crowd as Nicolas Almagro beat Canada's Steven Diez 6-3 6-4.
The line-up for the second round will be confirmed on Tuesday, with Dustin Brown versus Bernard Tomic the pick of the day's action. The winner will face Murray.


(Writing by Joeph Cassinelli, Editing by Neil Robinson)
BERLIN Russian Olympic heptathlete Tatiana Chernova was stripped of her 2008 Beijing Games bronze medal on Monday after she tested positive to banned substances in re-tests of her sample.
Chernova's 2008 sample tested positive for anabolic steroid turinabol as did the sample from the 2012 Olympics of fellow Russian Maksim Dyldin, who was fifth with the 4x400m relay team at the Games in London.
Cheronova initially finished fourth in Beijing but was upgraded to bronze after Ukraine's Liudmyla Blonska tested positive in 2008.  Britain's Kelly Sotherton, originally fifth, is now in line to be promoted to the bronze medal position.
More than 100 athletes have had positive results in re-tests of samples taken during the London 2012 and Beijing 2008 Olympics conducted by the IOC.
The re-testing program is part of the IOC's efforts to catch cheats using newer testing methods or looking for substances that were not known at the time of past Olympics, and to prevent them from competing in future Games.
Samples are stored for a decade, and for the 2008 and 2012 re-tests Russia has had the most positive cases per nation.

(Reporting by Karolos Grohmann, editing by Mitch Phillips)
BERLIN Romania Fed Cup captain Ilie Nastase will have to wait for at least two weeks to discover if he is to face further action after he was provisionally banned from all ITF events following his verbal abuse of British players last weekend.
The 70-year-old former French and U.S. Open champion, who earned a reputation for controversial behavior during his playing days, was excluded from the tie on Saturday for unsportsmanlike conduct, with an investigation under way.
"(The investigation) is ongoing. At this point, one of the principles that is important is that we want a rigorous process that is fair," International Tennis Federation (ITF) President David Haggerty said on Monday.
"We will also hear Nastase’s side of the argument. It will be a thorough process conducted in an efficient manner. I do not think you will be hearing any final decisions in the next two weeks."
Saturday's second singles rubber between Romania and Britain was briefly suspended with world number seven Johanna Konta in tears after the remarks made by Nastase.
Konta recovered her composure to finish off a victory over Romania's Sorana Cirstea and level the tie at 1-1 but Romania went on to win it and Konta and Heather Watson both lost on Sunday.
Britain's captain Anne Keothavong also said she was made to feel uncomfortable by "inappropriate comments" made by Nastase at the official pre-match dinner.
Nastase had already run into trouble during the World Group II playoff tie in Constanta, Romania, after allegedly making a derogatory comment about American world number two Serena Williams's unborn child.

(Reporting by Karolos Grohmann, editing by Mitch Phillips)
LONDON Serena Williams returned to the top of the WTA world rankings on Monday and immediately shared the news with her unborn baby.
The American, who is skipping the rest of the year after announcing last week that she was pregnant, took to social media to offer her first public thoughts on impending motherhood.
"My Dearest Baby, You gave me the strength I didn't know I had. You taught me the true meaning of serenity and peace," the 35-year-old who owns 23 grand slam titles, said on Instagram.
"I can't wait to meet you. I can't wait for you to join the players box next year," she continues.
"But most importantly, I am so happy to share being number one in the world with you... once again today. From the world's oldest number one to the world's youngest number one. - Your Mommy."
Williams set off a day of frenzied speculation last Wednesday with a selfie posted on social media -- posing for a photo in a yellow one-piece swimsuit on Snapchat -- with the caption "20 weeks".
She deleted the post shortly afterwards but her Los Angeles-based publicist Kelly Bush Novak later confirmed that the player, who is engaged to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, was indeed expecting her first child.
It seems likely she was several weeks pregnant when she won this year's Australian Open to move to within one grand slam title of matching Australian Margaret Court's record of 24.
Her message on Monday appears to underline her resolve to return to action next year.
Despite not having played since January when she moved ahead of Steffi Graf as the most successful tennis player in the professional era by beating sister Venus in the Australian Open final, she replaced Germany's Angelique Kerber as world number one in the rankings on Monday.

(Reporting by Martyn Herman, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
MELBOURNE The Australian Olympic Committee (AOC) is to hold a "crisis meeting" this week after allegations of bullying were leveled against a senior executive, local media reported on Monday.
Former CEO Fiona de Jong, who departed the AOC in December, confirmed to local media she had made a formal complaint against the AOC's media and communications director Mike Tancred.
Tancred declined to comment when contacted by Reuters about the allegations, which have emerged three weeks before the AOC's presidential election at the annual general meeting on May 6.
State media ABC reported on Monday the AOC's board would meet this week after a number of its members expressed concerns about "significant reputational damage" to the Committee.
An AOC spokesperson confirmed the meeting to Australian Associated Press but provided no details.
Tancred is a long-serving lieutenant to AOC President John Coates, who will contest the election for one of Australia's top jobs in sport against board member and Olympic hockey gold medalist Danni Roche.
The election marks the first leadership challenge to Coates since he assumed the role in 1990.
An International Olympic Committee vice president and one of the most powerful sports administrators in the world, Coates has been embroiled in a public feud with the Australian Sports Commission, a government agency that disburses sports funding.
De Jong complained that the AOC was dragging its heels on an investigation into her complaint.
Ryan Wells, another former AOC staffer, detailed a separate allegation of bullying against Tancred when working in its media department in 2004.
He said he was made redundant six months after making a complaint.
In a Monday editorial, the Sydney Morning Herald called for change at the AOC.
"The allegations of a bullying and toxic culture under Mr Coates' watch at the organization have reached a critical mass," it said, adding that in any other field "the doubts over Mr Coates would destroy his chances" of extending his reign.

(Editing by Peter Rutherford)
With no question marks over his health or motivation, former champion Wladimir Klitschko has no plans to bring the curtain down on his 21-year professional career and is relishing the pressure ahead of his title fight against Briton Anthony Joshua.
Klitschko, who went unbeaten for 11 years before losing to Tyson Fury in 2015, has 64 wins against four defeats and will be hoping to seize Joshua's IBF heavyweight crown as well as the vacant WBA and IBO titles also up for grabs.
"Hopefully, I have a couple of years left in me," the 41-year-old Ukrainian told British media.
"I was always saying health and motivation is very important. If one of those things is missing then it doesn't make sense to continue."
Klitschko will face Joshua on April 29 in front of a 90,000 strong crowd at Wembley, one of the largest crowds in British boxing.
"In regards to pressure, it's just enjoyable. Anthony Joshua is a great fighter, I'm taking on the best out there to be the best. It's challenging... My next stage is bigger than my last," Klitschko said.
"The attention for the previous fight was less compared with this. It is an upgrade, it is a winning upgrade. I love it."

(Reporting by Aditi Prakash in Bengaluru; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
Canada survived a scary moment in the heats before going on to deliver a stunning win ahead of the United States and Jamaica in the men's 4x200 meters at the IAAF World Relays on Sunday.
Germany produced another surprise an hour later when they won the women's 4x100 after U.S. leadoff runner Tianna Bartoletta slipped and fell.
Despite that disappointment, the Americans still ended the two-day competition in Nassau with the most gold medals, five.
A strong leg by Olympic silver medalist Andre De Grasse and a solid exchange with anchor Aaron Brown put the Canadians out front in the men's 4x200 and Brown raced home for the year's best time of 1:19.42.
Brown said the team had been determined to make up for a dropped baton that knocked them out of Saturday's 4x100.
"It did not go well yesterday," said Brown. "But I'm glad we were able to break the curse, get the monkey off our backs and show the world what we are able to do in the relays."
The win, the first in the event by a non-U.S. or Jamaican team at the World Relays, came after Canadian leadoff runner Gavin Smellie was called for a false start in the heats.
“There was maybe a little twitch, but I didn’t move,” said Smellie. “I was asking the officials to watch the video to see there was no false start.”
The officials agreed and the red card was withdrawn.
The United States, running without Justin Gatlin, were second in the final in 1:19.88 and Jamaica took third (1:21.09).
In the women's 4x100, anchor Rebekka Haas held off Jamaica's Sashalee Forbes to give Germany their first World Relays victory in 42.84 seconds
"We were just hoping to get a medal, but we got gold," said German leadoff Alexandra Burghardt.
The United States won three of Sunday's other finals.
Olympic bronze medalist Clayton Murphy outdueled Kenya's Ferguson Rotich in the men's 4x800 as the United States came home in 7:13.16 with Kenya running 7:13.70.
Olympian LaShawn Merritt anchored the Americans to a narrow victory over Botswana in the men's 4x400, the Americans winning in 3:02.13, just 0.15 seconds ahead of Botswana.
There was no such drama in the women's 4x400 where the Americans came home in 3:24.36, nearly four seconds ahead of Poland.
"These ladies blew that thing open for me," said American anchor Natasha Hastings.
Host Bahamas finally struck victory in the finale of the night, the mixed 4x400, in 3:14.42.
The top eight finishers in the 4x100 and 4x400 for men and women automatically qualified for the IAAF world championships in London in August.

(Reporting by Gene Cherry in Raleigh, North Carolina; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday's National Basketball Association games:

Cavaliers 106, Pacers 102
LeBron James scored 33 points, including the go-ahead three-pointer with 1:08 remaining, and Cleveland completed a four-game sweep of Indiana in their NBA playoff opening-round series.
Indiana, which never had been swept in a seven-game series, took a 102-100 lead on Thaddeus Young's tip-in with 1:31 to play, but the Cavaliers scored the game's final six points to advance to the second round of the Eastern Conference.
For James, it was his 21st consecutive first-round playoff game victory, breaking Magic Johnson's record of 20 set in the mid-1980s.

Rockets 113, Thunder 109
Nene scored 28 points and Eric Gordon and Lou Williams added 18 each as Houston took a 3-1 lead in their Western Conference first-round series with Oklahoma City.
The Rockets have a chance to close out the series on Tuesday at home in Game Five.

Celtics 104, Bulls 95
Isaiah Thomas scored 33 points as Boston tied the Eastern Conference first-round series 2-2. The best-of-seven series resumes on Wednesday night in Boston.
Neither team has won a home game in the series.
Gerald Green scored a playoff-career-high 18 points, and Al Horford finished with 15 points and 11 rebounds for the Celtics, who blew a 20-point lead only to rebound after the Bulls took a two-point lead in the third quarter.

Jazz 105, Clippers 98
Joe Johnson scored 28 points and Rudy Gobert added 15 points and 13 rebounds in his first game back from injury to help Utah tie the series 2-2.
Rodney Hood chipped in 18 points and Derrick Favors added 17 off the bench to help Utah win a playoff game at home for the first time in seven years.
Eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao concedes his next opponent Jeff Horn is a bit of an unknown quantity but has told the Australian he needs to be in peak condition to make sure their WBO welterweight title fight pleases fight fans Down Under.
Pacquiao made a low-key entry to Australia on Monday, touching down at Brisbane airport for a promotional tour for their July 2 bout at Lang Park and speaking briefly to reporters before being whisked away by handlers.
"I don't know much about him, but I know he's a fighter," Pacquiao told local media.
"I haven't watched his fights yet, but I'm going to get his last three fights and watch it.
"My message for him is to work hard, and make sure you're 100 percent conditioned on July 2 so we can give a good fight, we can entertain people."
The fight against Horn (16-0-1) will be the 38-year-old Pacquiao's first since his unanimous decision victory for the title over American Jessie Vargas in Las Vegas last November.
Pacquiao had previously agreed to an April fight against Briton Amir Khan in the United Arab Emirates but his promoter Bob Arum said last month it had been postponed after the $38 million offer for the bout failed to materialize.
The Horn-Pacquiao fight is eagerly anticipated in Australia and will be the biggest boxing event held in the country in decades.
Organizers expect a crowd of over 50,000 to cram into Lang Park, which regularly hosts domestic and international rugby and soccer matches.
Dean Lonergan, a director at promoter Duco Events, hoped the bout would revitalise boxing in Australia.
"It's been in the doldrums for some time," Lonergan said in comments published by state media ABC.
"I think you'll find this will be the biggest fight in Australian history and you'll see the underdog (Horn) come through, and there's nothing like Australians supporting their own guys when they're underdogs."

(Editing by Peter Rutherford)
MANCHESTER, England For years it was assumed that if professional women's club soccer was to truly take off it would be the United States that would provide the home for an elite competition.
The U.S national team have won the World Cup three times and are four-times Olympic gold medalists. The country has produced some of the women's game's biggest and most marketable names.
On Saturday, however, two of those big names of American women's soccer, 2015 World Cup winners Carli Lloyd and Alex Morgan, were in action in the north-west of England at Manchester City's Academy Stadium.
Lloyd, the current World Player of the Year, lined up in the sky blue of her Manchester club while Morgan was facing her for French team Olympique Lyon in the first leg of the semi-finals of the UEFA Women's Champions League.
It is a situation that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago but the recent growth of well-resourced women's teams at big European clubs such as City, Lyon and the other two semi-finalists, Barcelona and Paris St Germain, has changed the landscape for women players.
The big clubs are assembling increasingly international squads and recruiting from far and wide and Lyon's Norwegian international striker Ada Hederberg sees it as completely natural that American women would now come to Europe.
"If you are an American player I would think you would want to play at the highest level and you have the Champions League here in Europe, so why not?" she told Reuters after Lyon enjoyed a comfortable 3-1 win against City.
"You have European football growing a lot now -– Barcelona, the Spanish teams, the English league, France, Germany, the game is growing in Europe and it is going to be exciting the next few years to see what happens," she said.
Both Lloyd, who scored a hat-trick in the 2015 World Cup final, and Morgan are on temporary deals in Europe while remaining under contract with their U.S. National Women's Soccer League (NWSL) teams.
Lloyd will return to her Houston Dash at the end of the  England's Women's Super League Spring Series while Morgan is due back with Orlando Pride after Lyon's season ends in June.
The NWSL is the latest attempt, after some failed efforts, to establish a solid professional club league in the U.S. and while it is making progress, limited budgets may lead to more Americans turning to Europe.
Recently Heather O'Reilly, a three-time gold-medal winner with the U.S., joined Arsenal while emerging American talent Crystal Dunn quit the NWSL's Washington Spirit to join Chelsea.

BIG NAMES
City's England international midfielder Jill Scott welcomes the trend and says she would not be surprised to see more Americans packing their bags soon.
"It is fantastic that we can attract players like this, you see the likes of Chelsea, Arsenal, players are now wanting to come and play in our league. That shows the progress that we have made and hopefully we can keep increasing the standard of our league and we can attract more big names," she said.
Lloyd says she had received plenty of questions from American players about life at Manchester City and the opportunities in Europe.
"I have had nothing but good things to say," she told Reuters, adding that she too would expect more of her compatriots to follow her path, especially before the big international competitions.
“I think so, time is running out though as we get close to 2019 and 2020 because those are big years with the World Cup and Olympics, it would have to be between now and 2019.
"It is a great competition to be able to compete in -– it's been a lot of fun," she said.
While Lloyd has been full of praise for the facilities available to City players, Morgan has made a point of highlighting the different styles of play that can be learnt in Europe and when she signed for Lyon talked of being "immersed in a soccer culture".
"It has always been a dream of mine to 'live' soccer and to compete in the Champions League," she said.
Although the U.S. college system continues to be an attractive option, the growth of big clubs in Europe and leagues such as England's Women's Super League, are likely to limit the number of players heading across the Atlantic to play club football in the States.
"You can see young English players in this league getting better and better. Why would they want to move to another league when ours is getting better and better?" asked Scott.

(Editing by Clare Fallon)
Romania Fed Cup captain Ilie Nastase was provisionally suspended from all International Tennis Federation (ITF) events on Sunday after being thrown out of the tie against Britain for verbally abusing opposing team members and the umpire.
The 70-year-old former French and U.S. Open champion, who earned a reputation for controversial behavior during his playing days, was excluded from the tie on Saturday for unsportsmanlike conduct.
Nastase had already run into trouble during the World Group II playoff tie in Constanta, Romania, after allegedly making a derogatory comment about American world number two Serena Williams's unborn child.
"Under the terms of the provisional suspension, Nastase may not participate in the Fed Cup in any capacity with immediate effect and shall be denied access to, and accreditation for, any ITF event including Fed Cup," the ITF said in a statement on Sunday.
The sport's governing body said it was continuing an investigation into the weekend's events and would make no further comment until that was completed.
Saturday's second singles rubber was briefly suspended with British world number seven Johanna Konta in tears, apparently because of remarks made by Nastase.
Konta recovered her composure to finish off a victory over Romania's Sorana Cirstea and level the tie at 1-1.
Britain's captain Anne Keothavong also said she was made to feel uncomfortable by comments made by Nastase at the official pre-match dinner.
Konta and Heather Watson both lost on Sunday to give Romania victory in the playoff.
At the draw for the tie on Friday, Nastase was heard speaking in Romanian to one of his team members about 23-times grand-slam champion Williams's baby.
"Let's see what color it has. Chocolate with milk?" he was quoted by Romanian and some British media as saying.
Williams, who confirmed her pregnancy through a spokeswoman last week, is engaged to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, who is white.
Konta, who was beaten 6-1 6-3 by Simona Halep on Sunday,    defended herself after Cirstea said she had "over-reacted" by crying in their match.
"With all due respect to Sorana, she was not in my shoes at that end of the court being verbally threatened," Konta was quoted as saying by British media.
"Any abuse is not all right but when it's a couple of meters away from you, screaming at you, I think that's a different ball game. It's not something that you truly know how it affects you until you experience it, so I do believe she may have been slightly unaware of the events that happened."
Irina-Camelia Begu saw off Watson with a 6-4 7-5 victory to seal the tie for the Romanians before the doubles.
The visitors gained a consolation win when Laura Robson and Jocelyn Rae beat Halep and Monica Niculescu 6-3 1-6 10-8 in the doubles dead rubber.

(Writing by Clare Fallon; Editing by Ken Ferris)
Chuck Wielgus, executive director of USA Swimming for nearly two decades, died on Sunday in Colorado Springs of complications from colon cancer, the organization announced. He was 67.
Wielgus joined USA Swimming as executive director in 1997 and presided over a successful period in which the nation’s elite swimmers dominated international competition.
There were 156 podium performances by American swimmers in five Olympics during the tenure of Wielgus, including 16 gold medals at the 2016 Rio Games. No other nation won more than three golds in Rio.
“This is an extremely sad day, as we lost... one of the finest men I have ever had the pleasure to work alongside,” said Jim Sheehan, chair of the USA Swimming board of directors.
U.S. Olympic Committee CEO Scott Blackmun also paid tribute to Wielgus.
“During his tenure at USA Swimming, American swimmers enjoyed more success and more support than ever before. He had a passion for his work and cared deeply about sport. Chuck fought a long and hard battle with amazing grace and optimism, and will be missed."

(Reporting by Andrew Both in Cary, North Carolina; Editing by Clare Fallon)
Hosts Romania beat Britain in their controversial Fed Cup World Cup play-off in Constanta on Sunday, with both Johanna Konta and Heather Watson failing to win their respective singles rubbers for the visitors.
Simona Halep beat world number seven Konta 6-1 6-3, while Irina-Camelia Begu saw off Watson with a 6-4 7-5 victory to seal the tie for the Romanians before the doubles.
World number five Halep started strongly against Konta on Sunday, opening up a 4-0 lead en route to winning the first set in 27 minutes.
Konta improved in the second to go 3-1 up, but Halep's superiority on clay shone through as she won five games in a row to clinch the match.
Konta was left in tears on Saturday apparently because of remarks made by Romanian captain Ilie Nastase during her match with Sorana Cirstea, which resulted in play being briefly suspended. [nL3N1HU06C]
Nastase was eventually banned from the tie because of "unsportsmanlike conduct" and had his accreditation removed by the International Tennis Federation, which has launched an investigation into his conduct.
Konta defended herself after Cirstea said on Sunday that she had "overreacted" by crying in their match.
"With all due respect to Sorana, she was not in my shoes at that end of the court being verbally threatened," Konta was quoted as saying by British media. "Any abuse is not all right.
"But when it's a couple of meters away from you, screaming at you, I think that's a different ball game. It's not something that you truly know how it affects you until you experience it, so I do believe she may have been slightly unaware of the events that happened."
Watson could not beat Begu to keep Britain's hopes alive, but the visitors gained a consolation win after Laura Robson and Jocelyn Rae beat Halep and Monica Niculescu in the doubles dead rubber.

(Reporting by Simon Jennings in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
LONDON Kenya's Daniel Wanjiru held off a late charge from Ethiopian Kenenisa Bekele to win the London Marathon on Sunday in two hours five minutes 48 seconds.
His triumph completed the double for Kenya after Mary Keitany sealed her third London title in a women only world record of 2:17.01, beating Britain’s Paula Radcliffe's previous best by 41 seconds.
Radcliffe still holds the overall record of 2:15.25, which she set in a mixed gender race at the London Marathon in 2003 when she used male runners to help set the pace.
The IAAF recognizes two marathon world records for women, one for "mixed gender" and the other for "women only".
Bekele, 34, a three-time Olympic champion on the track, had been hoping to break Dennis Kimetto’s men’s world record of 2:02.57 and asked pacemakers to deliver him to the halfway mark in 61.30.
They arrived 10 seconds slower - still on world-record pace - but Bekele then fell away as his leg muscles tightened up under the strain, leaving Wanjiru, fellow Kenyans Bedan Karoki and Abel Kirui and Ethiopia’s Feyisa Lilesa to form a four-man lead group.
However, Bekele staged a recovery and was only a handful of seconds adrift of the head of the race when Wanjiru split the lead quartet with an acceleration in the 21st mile.
Bekele overtook Lilesa, Kirui and Karoki but could not catch Wanjiru, who won by nine seconds in his first appearance at the London Marathon.
Karoki finished one minute 53 seconds down in third on his marathon debut.
“Being second is frustrating. I felt my hamstring and my right calf. I had to change my running style,” Bekele told reporters.
The women’s race was far less competitive, after Keitany made an electric start and distanced all of her rivals by mile three.
She reached 10 miles one minute ahead of Radcliffe's overall world record, and although that pace proved unsustainable, she managed to stay comfortably ahead of the women’s only record.
Ethiopia’s Tirunesh Dibaba finished 56 seconds down in second place, while compatriot Aselefech Mergia was 6.07 minutes down in third.
Keitany said she did not think the overall record can be beaten in a women-only race such as London.
“I think 2:15 it might be impossible with a women's only. For the women only, 2:17 is possible, but not 2:15,” she said.
“I tried to push all the time. I’m very happy with the finish time.”
Last year’s winner, Jemima Sumgong of Kenya, did not defend her title after failing a drugs test earlier in the season.

(Reporting by Matt Westby, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
LONDON Ethiopian Kenenisa Bekele partly blamed his state-of-the-art Nike shoes for his failure to win the London Marathon on Sunday.
The 34-year-old was the pre-race favorite and had been on course to break the world record after 13 miles, but he then slowed down and fell behind his rivals.
He staged a superb recovery to finish second behind Kenya’s Daniel Wanjiru. He later explained that his problems had been caused by blistering.
Bekele was wearing Nike’s Zoom Vaporfly Elite shoes, which will be worn by Eliud Kipchoge, Lelisa Desisa and Zersenay Tadese in their Nike-backed attempt to run a sub-two-hour marathon in Italy next month.
“I used new shoes. When I was between 15km and 20km, the shoes started blistering my foot. My foot was not in a good position because of the shoes," Bekele told reporters.
“I changed the style to protect my foot more. It was difficult and changing the style affected my balance.
“Because of that I feel a little bit my hamstring. My leg was not responding well. That’s why I slowed the pace. Around 35km, I was feeling better and increased the pace.”
Officials at Nike could not immediately be reached for comment.
Wanjiru held off Bekele by nine seconds to win in two hours five minutes 48 seconds in his first appearance at the London Marathon.
The 24-year-old insisted he had not been distracted by Bekele’s demise and subsequent revival.
“I was not feeling (under pressure by) anybody because I was having self-confidence. My expectation was to win because I prepared very well in Kenya and my training went perfect.”

(Editing by Pritha Sarkar)
MONTE CARLO Rafael Nadal claimed a record-extending 10th Monte Carlo Masters title as he geared up for his beloved French Open with a 6-1 6-3 victory against fellow Spaniard Albert Ramos on Sunday.
The fourth seed, who is also targeting a 10th Roland Garros trophy this year, was always in command as he claimed his first ATP title since triumphing in Barcelona a year ago.
The 14-times grand slam champion had won his two previous encounters against Ramos and the 15th seed failed to snap that run on Sunday.
"It has been an amazing week on one of the most important events on the tour. I played well here, which helps me a lot to start the claycourt season with confidence," said Nadal.
Nadal wasted three break points in the second game as Ramos leveled for 1-1, only for the claycourt king to win the next five games to bag the opening set.
With Nadal's topspin working with devastating effect, Ramos struggled to stay close to his baseline.
The Mallorcan broke for 3-2 in the second set when Ramos sent a backhand long and from then on Nadal was unstoppable.
Ramos ended his first Masters final with a double fault that handed Nadal his 70th ATP title on the third match point.

(Writing by Julien Pretot, editing by Pritha Sarkar; Editing by XXXX)
BELGRADE A floundering Novak Djokovic should seek advice from evergreen Swiss maestro Roger Federer in order to rediscover his vintage self, the Serb's former Davis Cup coach Bogdan Obradovic said.
Djokovic has suffered a spectacular fall from grace since he captured his maiden French Open title last June for his 12th major honor, completing a career slam of winning all four of the world's top tennis tournaments.
"Given that Federer was able to return into the top 10 and win this year's Australian Open at the age of 36, I see no reason why Djokovic can't be the world number one again," Obradovic told Belgrade daily Blic on Sunday.
"Maybe Djokovic should talk to Federer. They are friends, they have known each other for a long time and the Swiss can certainly give him some good advice."
Having relinquished the top spot in the ATP rankings to Briton Andy Murray in November, Djokovic made a shock second-round Australian Open exit to Uzbek Denis Istomin followed by successive defeats to Australian Nick Kyrgios in Acapulco and Indian Wells.
The 29-year-old Serb also crashed out of the Monte Carlo quarter-finals on Thursday with a painful defeat by Belgian David Goffin after he threw away a 4-2 lead in the third set.
Obradovic, who steered Serbia to the 2010 Davis Cup title and the 2013 final during his 10-year spell in charge, made way in December for doubles specialist Nenad Zimonjic who has since appeared in a dual player-coach role.
Having advised Djokovic several times to restore meat to his diet, Obradovic stressed he believed that Djokovic's perceived loss of appetite on the court has come hand-in-hand with more hunger shown by rivals who have sensed blood.
"All other players seem to be galvanized against him while his own motivation appears to be inconsistent and shifting all the time," said Obradovic.
"He is not at his best, his serve keeps fluctuating as do elements in his game which really used to be at highest level consistently.
"However, it is difficult to play at such a high level indefinitely. Murray has a huge advantage in the standings but I am sure Djokovic will be back in contention for the top spot."

(Writing by Zoran Milosavljevic,; Editing by Pritha Sarkar)
Kenya's Mary Keitany broke the women's only world record en route to her third London Marathon gold medal on Sunday, finishing in a time of 2 hours 17 minutes 01 seconds to beat Paula Radcliffe previous best by 41 seconds.
Radcliffe still holds the overall record of 2:15.25, which she set in a mixed gender race at the London Marathon in 2003 when she used male runners to help set the pace.
The IAAF recognizes two marathon world records for women, one for "mixed gender" and the other for "women only".
Tirunesh Dibaba of Ethiopia finished Sunday's race 56 seconds adrift in second place, while Aselefech Mergia of Ethiopia was third.

(Reporting by Matt Westby, additional reporting by Simon Jennings in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)
Justin Gatlin and the United States roared to victory in the men's 4x100m relay as rivals Canada and Jamaica dropped batons at the IAAF World Relays in the Bahamas on Saturday.
Run down by Canadian Olympic medalist Andre De Grasse in the earlier heats, Gatlin romped home in the final, leading the U.S. team of Leshon Collins, Mike Rodgers and Ronnie Baker to victory in 38.43 seconds.
"It's all about execution, not about superior speed," the 35-year old Olympic 100 meters silver medalist told reporters.
"Britain and Canada didn't get the stick off (in the final) so I am running with 20 meters to the finish line wondering 'Hey, where is everybody at."
Barbados claimed the silver and China surprised by taking the bronze.
Australia finished fourth ahead of France as both joined the medalists in qualifying for the IAAF world championships in August.
DeGrasse, who many have labeled as retiring Jamaican record holder Usain Bolt's likely successor, never had a chance to replicate his first-round showing.
Team mate Aaron Brown briefly got the baton to Brendan Rodney on the second exchange before the stick slipped away.
Britain, who ran well until problems on the last exchange, and the Netherlands also failed to finish the race.
Olympic champions Jamaica were not even in the final.
A botched baton exchange in the heats sent packing the Jamaicans, who were running without both Bolt and former 100m world record holder Asafa Powell.
Only once before since 2008 had Jamaica failed to claim gold in a global 4x100m race.
Their women made up some of the disappointment in the women's 4x200m  with double Olympic champion Elaine Thompson leading them home in a championship record 1:29.04.
Germany beat out the United States for second.
The Americans were first in the women's 4x800m, dominating in 8:16.36. That was more than three seconds ahead of Belarus with Australia third.
In qualifying, Trinidad and Tobago's men (3:02.51) and the U.S. women (3:29.27) led advancers in the 4x400m.
The relays conclude on Sunday with the top eight finishers in the 4x100m and 4x400m for men and women automatically qualifying for the IAAF world championships.

(Reporting by Gene Cherry in Salvo, North Carolina; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
(The Sports Xchange) - Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr will miss Saturday's Game Three of the Western Conference first-round series against the Trail Blazers in Portland due to illness, the team said.
Assistant Mike Brown will serve as acting head coach in place of the 51-year-old Kerr, who did not attend the team's morning practice.
The Warriors lead the series 2-0.



(Editing by Gene Cherry; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
POINT-A-PITRE, Guadeloupe An Italian father and son duo have sailed their way into the record books after taking just over 11 days to cross the Atlantic in a catamaran.
Nico and Vittorio Malingri arrived in the Guadeloupe port town of Pointe-à-Pitre on Thursday, 11 days, one hour and nine minutes after leaving Dakar in Senegal, the World Sailing Speed Record Council said.
The time was 10 hours, 16 minutes quicker than the previous mark set by French duo Benoit Lequin and Pierre-Yves Moreau in 2007.
"Guys, the experience was spectacular, we were always on target, the boat was great to travel on," Nico Malingri said.
"We started to get tired towards the end but up until then we were happy with our average speed, we were doing well, it was a lot of fun."
The distance from Senegal to Guadeloupe is around 4,725 km (2935 miles), roughly the same as between New York and San Francisco.

(Writing by Patrick Johnston in LONDON)
BUENOS AIRES Buenos Aires is dropping out of the running to host the 2023 Pan American Games and will instead focus on a bid for the event four years later, the president of the Argentine Olympic Committee (COA), Gerardo Werthein, said on Friday.
Werthein said the Argentine capital, which will hold the Olympic Youth Games next year, was dropping its plans due to financial reasons, which leaves Chile's Santiago as the only city interested in hosting the quadrennial event in 2023.
Werthein said delaying the bid would also fit into Buenos Aires' plans for a possible Summer Olympics bid.
“I would like Argentina to present its Olympic candidacy for 2032, but for now I’m only thinking about (the PanAm Games in) 2027,” Werthein told reporters.
“The budget necessary to organize the Pan American Games was $650 million... It’s too much for this moment in Argentina,” he was quoted as saying by the leading national daily La Nacion.
The Pan American Games, which will next be held in Lima in 2019, have been staged twice in Argentina – in Buenos Aires in 1951 and Mar del Plata in 1995.
The last Games were held in Toronto in 2015.

(Reporting by Rex Gowar; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
Long-hitting Tony Finau stumbled at the final hole to fall back into a share of the second-round lead with fellow American Bud Cauley at the Texas Open on Friday.
Finau, buoyed by an eagle at the par-four 11th, looked set to enjoy sole possession of the lead at the end of the day until he bogeyed the par-five 18th, though he still carded an excellent seven-under-par 65 at TPC San Antonio.
The one-time PGA Tour winner joined Cauley (66) at eight-under 136, with Australian Cameron Smith in a group of three players one shot behind.
Cauley was upbeat after hitting the front in his quest for a breakthrough victory on the PGA Tour, after previously finishing third on three occasions.
“I hit it a little better yesterday and didn’t quite convert on some of the putts. Today I putted really well,” he said.
“It was windy out there. I knew I was going to miss some greens and I was able to hit some good chips.”
Smith, one shot back, also enjoyed his fair share of good breaks in his 65.
“It all fell into place,” he said. “Everything I hit, whether it was a rubbish shot or a good shot, went close to the hole. My short game was really good. I think I had three chip-ins.”
Last year's PGA Championship winner Jimmy Walker, who was recently diagnosed with Lyme disease, also moved into contention at his hometown event, three strokes behind.
Walker said on Friday he planned to take a break from golf to undergo treatment for the tick-transmitted bacterial infection that can cause headaches, fever, fatigue, rashes and, if less untreated, can spread to the heart, joints and nervous system.
He said he started feeling fatigued late last year, but was not diagnosed accurately until two weeks ago, just before the Masters.
“It’s nice to know it’s something and we can do something about it,” he told the PGA Tour official website.
“It’s something you don’t really like to tell people how tired you are, how fatigued you are ... are you just going crazy, getting old?”


(Reporting by Andrew Both in Cary, North Carolina; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
A Massachusetts state judge on Friday ordered prison officials to preserve any evidence collected from the cell of former National Football League star Aaron Hernandez, according to court documents, two days after he was found dead of an apparent suicide.
Lawyers for Hernandez's family had sought the ruling to ensure they can conduct their own investigation into his death at the Souza-Baranowski Correctional Center in Lancaster, Massachusetts.
A lawyer for the state correction department told Superior Court Judge Thomas McGuire in New Bedford, Massachusetts, that the maximum-security prison was already keeping any evidence, making a formal order unnecessary, the Boston Globe reported on Friday. But the judge said he would issue one regardless.
Investigators have formally ruled Hernandez's death a suicide. It remains unclear why the 27-year-old hanged himself at the prison, where he was serving life for the 2013 murder of an acquaintance.
His death came just days after he was acquitted at trial of separate double-murder charges.
Authorities said on Thursday three handwritten notes were found near a Bible in his cell, though their contents were not made public.
The attorney for Hernandez's family, George Leontire, said none of them had received a "scintilla of information about what transpired in his death," including the contents of the notes, the Globe reported.
The family is seeking the contents of Hernandez's cell, the bedsheet he used to hang himself, and recordings of emergency phone calls related to his medical treatment, among other items.
Hernandez, a New England Patriots tight end, was considered among the best at his position when he was arrested in June 2013 for murdering Odin Lloyd.
His lawyers are also expected to ask a court to vacate his 2015 murder conviction. Under Massachusetts state law, convictions are typically vacated for defendants who die before their appeals can be heard.
Hernandez's appeal was still pending at the time of his death.
Lloyd's mother has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Hernandez. On Friday, she and her attorney, Douglas Sheff, called on the Patriots to give $6 million to Hernandez's estate that could be turned over to his victims' families.
"We want to provide the Patriots with the opportunity to become something more - not just champions of football but to become champions of justice," Sheff said.
The $6 million is roughly the amount of guaranteed money owed under Hernandez's contract at the time of his arrest. The Patriots voided the deal soon after the arrest.

(Editing by Bernadette Baum and Matthew Lewis)
Former European Ryder Cup hero Ian Poulter warned his critics not to write him off after officially relinquishing his exempt status on the PGA Tour on Friday.
Poulter needed to finish 36th or better at the Texas Open to keep his tour card, but he missed the cut after posting a two-over 146 halfway total at TPC San Antonio.
The blunt-talking Englishman said he would continue to play U.S. tournaments on sponsor invitations, and would also add European Tour events to his schedule.
“I think it has been slightly over-dramatized,” Poulter said of reports of his struggles. “Yeah, I would love to have finished it off and got it done this week but that hasn’t happened.
“It doesn’t mean you’re never going to see me again. It means I’ve got some work to do and I need to go away and do some work.”
Poulter, 41, is in the field for next week’s PGA Tour event, the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, where he will team up with Australian Geoff Ogilvy in the new format of 80 two-man teams.
After missing the second half of last season with a foot injury, he started this season on a major medical extension, needing to earn either 218 FedExCup points or $348,000 in 10 events to retain his full playing privileges.
Poulter, ranked fifth in the world in 2010, is currently number 190.
He has won 12 times on the European Tour, including two World Golf Championship events.
Poulter is best known for his stellar Ryder Cup play, playing on the winning European team in four of five appearances in the event and racking up an impressive individual record of 12 wins, four losses and two halves.
“Golf’s a funny game,” he said. “We could quite easily go out next week and win and things are a little different.”


(Reporting by Andrew Both in Cary, North Carolina, editing by Ed Osmond)
LONDON Britain's Parkour governing body has accused gymnastics of "encroachment and misappropriation" in seeking to incorporate  elements of the running, climbing and jumping sport into a new discipline.
Britain in January became the first country officially to recognize Parkour, which was founded in France in the 1980s and takes its name from the French word 'parcours' (course or route).
In an open letter to the International Gymnastics Federation (FIG), Parkour UK emphasized that it was a "distinct and unique  sport in its own right and not a discipline of any existing sport/activity.
"Parkour/Freerunning is not 'gymnastics', nor are Traceurs/Freerunners 'gymnasts'," it added. "We are our own sovereign sport with independently recognized distinct uniqueness and cultural status."
The FIG executive committee had said in a statement in February that it agreed the development of a new discipline aimed at broadening the appeal of gymnastics after research into parkour.
Parkour UK called for a meeting with FIG to agree a memorandum of understanding and said it would take any dispute to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.

(Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Neil Robinson)
ZURICH Disgraced former FIFA president Sepp Blatter said on Friday he had met lawyers from the U.S. Justice Department but was not a suspect in their soccer-related corruption investigations.
The 81-year-old, banned for six years by FIFA's own ethics committee at the height of a scandal engulfing world soccer's governing body, told journalists he had met the U.S. lawyers in October or November, without going into further details.
Several dozen soccer officials, including some from FIFA, were indicted in the United States in 2015 on corruption-related chances.
Blatter was not among them, although he subsequently said his lawyer had advised him not to travel abroad.
"I have had very little contact from my American lawyers because I was never a person of interest under scrutiny by the American justice," he told a group of international reporters on Friday.
"I have been investigated in two or three matters ... but there is no wrongdoing." There was no immediate comment from the U.S. Justice Department.

"STILL POPULAR"
Blatter and Ex-UEFA president Michel Platini were banned from all football-related activities in 2015, initially for eight years, over a 2 million Swiss franc ($2 million) payment FIFA made to Platini in 2011, with Blatter’s approval, for work done a decade earlier.
Blatter said on Friday he had become a “punching bag” for all FIFA’s problems but that he was still generally liked by his Swiss compatriots.
"Here in the city of Zurich and Switzerland in general, I am not only accepted but they like me," said Blatter, who has denied all charged against him.
"I don't have the impression that I am a rejected man. Why should I be rejected? I have done a good (job at) FIFA ... I feel that wherever I go the people and young people recognize me and want to take a picture and say hello. There are still fans who write to me.”
He said Swiss prosecutors had not contacted him over a separate case initiated in September 2015 against him relating to accusations of criminal mismanagement and misappropriation.
"I have never heard anything, my lawyer has heard nothing about that," he said. “That does not surprise me, because there was no reasons to open a case against me.”
"I have been interviewed and I will be interviewed in future but not in these cases; I am interviewed in cases concerning the activities in FIFA, as a person of information."
Swiss authorities have also opened investigations into the decision to award the 2018 and 2022 World Cups to Russia and Qatar respectively, into Germany’s successful bid to host the 2006 World Cup and against former FIFA secretary general Jerome Valcke.

(Writing by Brian Homewood; Editing by Andrew Heavens)
LONDON Jacques Villeneuve has applauded Fernando Alonso's gladiatorial spirit in chasing motorsport's 'Triple Crown' but the retired Formula One world champion and Indianapolis 500 winner said he was skeptical about the Spaniard's chances.
Alonso, who races for Honda-powered McLaren in Formula One, will be at Barber Motorsports Park in Birmingham, Alabama, this weekend to soak up the Indy Car atmosphere before competing in the Indy 500 in May.
A win on the famed Brickyard oval would be sensational but the double world champion will still have to conquer the Le Mans 24 Hours sportscar race to match the unique Triple Crown achieved by the late Briton Graham Hill in 1972.
Villeneuve, who won Indianapolis in 1995 and the Formula One title in 1997 before finishing second with Peugeot at Le Mans in 2008, felt the likelihood of Alonso succeeding was "tiny".
"But he will go for it, and that’s what’s great. That’s what makes it exciting," the Canadian told Reuters at the recent Bahrain Grand Prix.
"It’s typical gladiators and that’s what built the sport,  made it what it is today. So it’s good that there’s someone going back to its roots like this, it’s amazing.
"What I find disappointing is how many (F1) drivers say ‘why bother, it’s only an oval race... it’s dangerous, why would I race there?' Well, you’re a racer."

JIM CLARK
Indianapolis was part of the Formula One world championship from 1950 through to 1960 but the winners were all Americans unfamiliar to European audiences and did not compete in grands prix elsewhere.
In 1965 Jim Clark missed the showcase Monaco Grand Prix - as Alonso will also do this year - to race at Indy. The late Scot won, becoming the only driver to take the Formula One championship and Indianapolis in the same year.
Hill, father of 1996 world champion Damon, won the Formula One crown in 1962 and 1968, the Indy 500 in 1966 and Le Mans in 1972.
"If you are a pure race fan and are passionate and a racer at heart, you have to be interested in Le Mans and Indy 500 as well as F1. It’s the three main things in racing," said Villeneuve.
"For drivers it was always important ... I finished second in Le Mans which is a shame, that really kills me. That hurts."
The Canadian competed in Le Mans only after retiring from Formula One, with Alonso - who will be 36 in July - likely to follow the same route.
Villeneuve said he would love another go at the French race but was not kidding himself about his chances, and suggested Alonso should not either.
"I’m waiting for the call. It won’t happen. I’m 46 and you need to be 18 to race now," he said, with some exaggeration about the younger end of the spectrum given that nine times Le Mans winner Tom Kristensen of Denmark retired at 47.
McLaren won Le Mans in 1995 against faster prototypes in wet conditions but the race has been dominated for more than a decade by major manufacturers.
"There’s doing Le Mans, and there’s trying to win Le Mans. And there’s only two or three cars that can do it and there’s no way you can get in there," said Villeneuve.
"A constructor would not want a big name to win the Triple Crown because ultimately it’s not their publicity, it’s the driver’s publicity," he added.
"They want to win as a constructor. So there’s that aspect also that blocks it."

(Reporting by Alan Baldwin; Editing by Andrew Heavens)
The former president of the Costa Rican Football Association, Eduardo Li, was banned from the game for life by FIFA's independent Ethics Committee on Friday, the organization said.
Li is one of 42 individuals and entities charged in a U.S. investigation into the biggest corruption scandal in the history of FIFA. He was among seven soccer officials arrested at a Zurich luxury hotel in May 2015.
Li, who was also a former member of the executive of CONCACAF, the regional confederation for North and Central America, pleaded guilty in a U.S federal court in October to taking hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes.
U.S. prosecutors alleged Li and others engaged in schemes involving over $200 million in bribes and kickbacks that were sought and received by soccer officials for marketing and broadcasting rights to tournaments and matches.
In court, Li had said he negotiated a $500,000 bribe, of which $300,000 he actually received, to award a Miami-based unit of Brazil's Traffic Group media and marketing rights for 2022 World Cup qualifier matches.
Li also said he had agreed to accept a separate $500,000 bribe, $230,000 of which he received, from Panama-based intermediaries in exchange for awarding a U.S. company a contract to be the Costa Rican national team's uniform sponsor.
(Story refiles to delete repeated time reference in first paragraph.)

(Reporting by Simon Evans; Editing by Ralph Boulton)
MADRID World number one Andy Murray will play next week's Barcelona Open in a bid to build match fitness and clock up much-needed claycourt time ahead of next month's French Open.
Murray on Friday took the late decision to play in Spain after a surprise defeat at the hands of Spaniard Albert Ramos-Vinolas in the last 16 of the Monte Carlo Masters.
Murray had been scheduled to play just Madrid and Rome ahead of the French Open. The Scot had suffered an elbow injury in March, and only made his return from a five-week layoff on Wednesday in Monaco.
It has been a tough start to 2017 for Murray after finishing last year as the world’s top-ranked player. His run of 28 consecutive wins was brought to an end by Novak Djokovic in Doha in January, while unheralded Mischa Zverev ended Murray's hopes of a maiden Australian Open title in Melbourne.
Murray won his first tournament of the year in Dubai last month, but a week later suffered a shock defeat to world number 129 Vasek Pospisil – his first loss to a player outside the top 100 in six years.

(Editing by Ossian Shine)
BOSTON Geoffrey Kirui and Edna Kiplagat produced a Kenyan sweep at the Boston Marathon, winning the men's and women's races on Monday by conquering the race's hilly final miles to establish their dominance.
Kirui finished in two hours nine minutes and 37 seconds after holding off a challenge by American Galen Rupp in the race's final stretch down Boylston Street, the site of the deadly 2013 bombing attack.
Kirui repeatedly tested Rupp in the closing miles, with the American Olympic bronze medalist eventually unable to match the Kenyan's pace.
"He put in several surges and I was able to cover a few of them," Rupp told reporters after the race.
Kiplagat, a 38-year-old mother of two whose resume includes marathon wins in London, Moscow, New York and Daegu, ran alone for the final miles of the race and finished in 2:21:52, almost a minute ahead of Bahrain's Rose Chelimo.
The Kenyan maintained her comfortable lead despite briefly stopping in the final miles when she realized she had grabbed a rival's water bottle from an aid station and went back to return it.
"I had to put back something which was not mine," Kiplagat told reporters. "I was afraid, because you know, if you miss water it can affect you."
American Jordan Hasay set a record for an American women's debut marathon, coming in third in 2:23:00. Japan's Suguru Osako finished third among the men.
Security was high along the course, which begins in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, and passes through Boston's suburbs to the finish line, where a pair of ethnic Chechen brothers on April 15, 2013 set off two homemade bombs, killing three people and injuring more than 200.
Meb Keflezighi, who in 2014 became the first American to win the race in over three decades, finished 13th in his final Boston Marathon.
Keflezighi, who plans to retire from racing after the New York City marathon in November, stopped after his victory to touch the hand of Bill Richard, whose 8-year-old son Martin was the youngest person to die in the bombing.
"In 2013, I was a spectator just like the three victims and when I saw the 8-year-old ... the first thing in my mind was that could have been my daughter," said Keflezighi.
Tens of thousands of people packed the streets for Boston's largest sporting event, held on the Patriots Day holiday, which commemorates the start of the American Revolution.

LONDON Max Verstappen apologized to Brazilian Formula One fans on Monday after a comment about Felipe Massa caused offence at the weekend.
The 19-year-old Red Bull driver had accused the Williams veteran of wrecking his best lap in qualifying at the Bahrain Grand Prix and was asked by reporters whether he would be speaking to him.
"Well, he's a Brazilian. So there's not much to discuss," Verstappen had replied.
The Dutchman, who won huge admiration for a stellar drive through the field to third place at a rainswept Interlagos circuit last year, took to Instagram to clarify remarks that went down badly in Brazil.
"Being a passionate racer, I was very disappointed with my last (qualifying) stint and gave an emotional reaction that was taken out of context," he said.
"By no means did I mean to insult the Brazilian people who I greatly respect and are always very nice to me when I visit the country.
"I would like to apologize to any Brazilians that feel offended and look forward to racing in your country again," he added, referencing Brazilian world champions Ayrton Senna, Emerson Fittipaldi and Nelson Piquet.
Massa, the only Brazilian driver on the current starting grid, told UOL Esporte that he had spoken to Verstappen after the race and warned him to "be careful what you say because you're going to have to go to Brazil to race there".
Verstappen crashed out of Sunday's race at the Sakhir circuit after a brake failure.

BOSTON Ethiopia's Lemi Berhanu Hayle and Atsede Baysa will line up among the world's top distance runners on Monday to defend their Boston Marathon titles, with tens of thousands of spectators expected to line the course amid tight security.
Men's champion Hayle won the 2016 marathon in a tactical 2 hours, 12 minutes and 44 seconds, while women's title holder Baysa won in 2:29:19.
The 121st Boston Marathon will see four-time Olympian Meb Keflezighi make his farewell performance. Keflezighi became the first American to win the Boston Marathon in more than three decades in 2014 with a time of 2:08:37.
Security will be high along the course, that begins in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, and passes through Boston's suburbs to the finish line on Boylston Street, where a pair of ethnic Chechen brothers in 2013 set off two homemade bombs, killing three people and injuring more than 200.
Tens of thousands of people are expected to pack the streets for Boston's largest sporting event, held on the Patriots Day holiday, which commemorates the start of the American Revolution.
Other top men's contenders include Kenya's Emmanuel Mutai, who won the 2011 London marathon, Ethiopia's Yemane Tsegay, who finished third in Boston in 2016, with the top American contender Galen Rupp of Portland, Oregon, fresh off a bronze in the Olympic marathon in Rio de Janeiro.
In the women's competition, runners to watch include Kenya's Gladys Cherono, who won the 2015 Berlin Marathon, and Edna Kiplagat, who finished second in Chicago last year.
Desiree Linden brings in the fastest time of any of the American women, with her 2:22:38 personal record set when she finished second in Boston in 2011.

BUENOS AIRES An Argentine soccer fan was declared dead after suffering a vicious attack by a group of men during a first division match at the weekend, local media reported on Monday.
TV footage showed Belgrano supporter Emanuel Balbo being set upon by hooligan fans of the same team during Saturday’s derby against bitter rivals Talleres in the northern city of Cordoba.
The 22-year-old was pushed as he tried to get away, falling more than three meters into a concrete stairwell and landing on his head.
Judge Liliana Sanchez told TyC Sports that four men already arrested and notorious “barrabrava” hooligan Oscar Gomez, who is said to have instigated the attack and is being sought by police, faced charges of aggravated homicide and up to 34 years in jail.
Balbo’s father Raul told reporters his elder son had been killed in a hit and run incident by Gomez four years ago.
"Here at Belgrano we are praying that Emanuel Balbo and Diego Frydman recover," the club said in a statement, adding that another fan had been injured in a separate incident.
Barrabrava violence is endemic in the Argentine game with Balbo the 317th fatal victim since 1922, according to statistics published by the NGO Salvemos al Futbol (let’s save football).
A ban on traveling fans at Argentine league matches has been in place since 2013 in a bid to curb the violence. Efforts to lift it at selected matches have failed.
The first derby between the rival teams for 15 years ended 1-1 with Talleres in 10th place, 14 points behind leaders Boca Juniors, and Belgrano one from bottom of the 30-team championship standings.

BOSTON Kenya's Geoffrey Kirui won the 121st running of the Boston Marathon in an unofficial time of two hours nine minutes and 36 seconds to win the men's race on Monday, holding off a final challenge from American Galen Rupp in the last mile.

MANAMA Formula One world champions Mercedes have indicated they may increasingly have to favor Lewis Hamilton over new team mate Valtteri Bottas to counter the threat posed by Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel.
In practice, that is likely to mean the reluctant imposition of more of the so-called 'team orders' used in Sunday's Bahrain Grand Prix.
"We don't like that, at all," team boss Toto Wolff told reporters after Bottas twice obeyed radio instructions to let the faster Hamilton through to chase eventual winner and championship leader Vettel.
"It's not what we have done in the last couple of years but the situation is different now so it needs a proper analysis of what it means and where we are."
Mercedes have never had a designated number one driver, and Wolff said the desire was to give both equal opportunity at the start of the race.
The team won all but two races last season but are no longer dominant in a championship that has for the past three years been an internal battle.
Vettel has now won two of three races and is seven points clear of Hamilton.
Finland's Kimi Raikkonen, Vettel's 2007 champion team mate who has yet to stand on the podium this season and not been on pole since 2008, slipped 34 points behind -- half as many as the German.
Bottas, who joined Mercedes in January as replacement for now-retired world champion Nico Rosberg, is 23 adrift of his team mate.
Wolff said the situation at Ferrari had to be taken into consideration.
"That is the interesting question that we need to analyze at the moment and I don't want to pre-empt what the consequence will be, or if there will be a consequence," he added.
The disparity between the current Mercedes pairing is more marked than before, with Bottas yet to win a race and Hamilton surpassed only by Michael Schumacher in the all-time lists with 54 victories.
Bahrain was Bottas's first career pole position, whereas Hamilton has 63 and could sail past Schumacher's record of 68 later in the year.
The Finn is also still settling into his new surroundings, whereas Hamilton has been there since 2013 and is the sport's biggest personality.
Hamilton had been on pole for six races in a row until Bottas broke the sequence in Bahrain and Wolff said Mercedes appeared to be still slightly ahead of Ferrari on single lap pace.
"In the race it's pretty evenly matched I would say. So I think that's going to be a close one for the next couple of races."

SEOUL The torch relay for next year's Winter Olympics will begin in South Korea in November and travel 2,018 kilometers around the country before arriving in Pyeongchang to mark the start of the Feb. 9-25 Games, organizers said on Monday.
The flame will be lit in Olympia, Greece on Oct. 24 before coming to Korea for the domestic relay. It would then be taken through 17 cities and provinces by 7,500 torchbearers, beginning on Nov. 1 -- the 100-day countdown to the Games, POCOG said in a statement.
The identity of the final torchbearer has not been revealed yet but it would be a huge surprise if figure skater Kim Yuna does not light the cauldron to start Asia's first Winter Games outside of Japan.
Kim, who almost single-handedly raised the profile of winter sports in South Korea, won gold at the Vancouver Games in 2010 and a controversial silver in Sochi four years later before retiring from the sport.
She was also a torchbearer at the 2006 and 2010 Games and said the experience would create a "lifelong memory" for those taking part in the relay for Pyeongchang.
"It was a great honor to carry the Olympic torch for Torino 2006 and Vancouver 2010," she said in the statement. "It motivated me to work even harder toward winning a gold medal at the Olympic Winter Games."
Also on Monday, the South Korean government said it would tack on 2 billion won ($1.75 million) in additional funding to help local athletes prepare for the Games, Yonhap News reported.
The funds are in addition to the 33.7 billion won the government had already set aside for athlete training and preparation.
Located in the mountainous Gangwon Province, some 180 kilometers east of Seoul, Pyeongchang failed in bids for the 2010 and 2014 Winter Games before finally finding success.
The 2018 Games kick off an Olympic cycle in Northeast Asia, with Tokyo hosting the 2020 Summer Games and Beijing staging the Winter Olympics two years later.
There have also been suggestions the region could stage three straight Winter Games with the Japanese city of Sapporo thought to be keen to stage the 2026 event.

Boston Celtics guard Isaiah Thomas made an emotional return to the court on Sunday, a day after his sister Chyna had been killed in a car crash.
With the words ‘Chyna, R.I.P Lil Sis’ written on his green left shoe, and the date of her death on the right, Thomas was in tears on the bench ahead of their playoff game against Chicago and during a moment of silence before the national anthem.
The two-times NBA All Star gathered himself once he took the court and received vocal support from the capacity 18,000-plus crowd at TD Garden in Boston.
Thomas almost lifted the Eastern Conference top seeds to victory with two late baskets in their best-of-seven first-round series opener against the Bulls, but the visitors survived to draw first blood, 106-102.
Thomas, who top-scored for the Celtics with 33 points on 10-of-18 shooting from the floor, did not talk to the media after the game but team mate Avery Bradley said the players were proud of their grieving guard.
"I know tonight he was playing for his sister, playing for his family. We appreciate that as team mates," Bradley told reporters.
"We just need to continue to fight for him ... Isaiah to me is like family. We grew up in the same area."
Center Al Horford admitted it had been a difficult situation.
"We’re never going to make excuses but this is hard, this was difficult," he said. "I felt our guys, we really dealt with it the right way but Isaiah’s the one who I felt dealt with it best. We knew he was hurting."
Boston coach Brad Stevens let Thomas decide whether to play on Sunday, and said that would also be the case for Tuesday’s Game Two.
“Whatever he needs to do he needs to do,” Stevens told reporters. “I’m not going to ask him or make him make those decisions (tonight). Those have got to come in his own time and then we will adjust accordingly.”
Stevens said he was proud of the way Thomas had performed, and how his team mates had supported him.
“He’s an amazing player, amazing player. He somehow plays like that ... You couldn’t help but be inspired by his play."
Chyna Thomas, 22, died in a single-car accident in Washington State before dawn on Saturday.

BUENOS AIRES An Argentine soccer fan was in a coma and two men arrested for attempted murder after a scuffle among supporters in the derby between Belgrano and Talleres in Cordoba, local media reported on Sunday.
The fan, identified by Belgrano as Emanuel Balbo, was beaten by fellow supporters in the crowd of 57,000 and forced down the terraces where he tried to avoid more violence by vaulting a barrier, his father told Cordoba's Cadena 3 radio station.
Video footage showed Balbo falling over one tier of the stand and then lying prostrate on a concrete staircase below.
Local media reported he was in a serious condition.
Another fan named Diego Frydman was also hurt, home club Belgrano said.
"Here at Belgrano we are praying that Emanuel Balbo and Diego Frydman recover," the club said in a statement.
Saturday's violence is the latest in a long string of incidents at Argentine grounds.
In recent years away fans have been banned from some matches and games postponed but the measures have failed to curb the violence.
The game finished 1-1 to leave Belgrano second bottom of the 30-team Primera Division.

(The Sports Xchange) - The Toronto Blue Jays have problems with injuries to their pitching staff.
They placed right-hander Aaron Sanchez on the 10-day disabled list with a blister on his right middle finger, and left-hander J.A. Happ left in the fifth inning of Sunday's game against Baltimore with a sore left elbow.
Taking Sanchez's place on the 25-man roster is left-hander Matt Dermody, who was recalled from Triple-A Buffalo.
Sanchez is 0-1 with a 4.38 ERA in two starts this season. He has been dealing with a blister since spring training.
Happ threw ball one to Orioles center fielder Adam Jones in the fifth and then was visited at the mound by a trainer and manager John Gibbons. After a short meeting, Happ walked from the mound and was replaced by right-hander Joe Biagini.
- - -
The Baltimore Orioles placed closer Zach Britton on the 10-day disabled list with a left forearm strain.
The left-hander has five saves this season, including two in the four-game series with the Toronto Blue Jays that ends Sunday.
Right-hander Stefan Crichton was recalled from Triple-A Norfolk after he had been optioned there Saturday to make room for right-hander for Alec Asher, who started Saturday against the Blue Jays.
- - -
The San Francisco Giants placed outfielder Jarrett Parker on the disabled list a day after he broke his right collarbone crashing into the fence while catching a fly ball.
Giants manager Bruce Bochy said Parker likely will be out for about eight weeks after undergoing a surgical procedure this week.
The Giants recalled left-hander Steven Okert from the Triple-A Sacramento River Cats to take Parker's place on the active roster.
- - -
Boston Red Sox designated hitter Hanley Ramirez left Sunday's game against the Tampa Bay Rays in the seventh inning with a left hamstring cramp and is considered day-to-day.
Ramirez pulled up limping after rounding second base on Mitch Moreland's go-ahead, two-run single. He was helped back to the dugout by manager John Farrell and was replaced by Steve Selsky.

Croatian Borna Coric claimed his first ATP title when he battled back to beat experienced German Philipp Kohlschreiber in the final of the Grand Prix Hassan II in Marrakech on Sunday.
The 20-year-old, playing in only his second Tour final, won 5-7 7-6(3) 7-5 and saved four match points before sealing victory.
Third seed Kohlschreiber looked on course for victory when he led by a set and 3-0 but Coric recovered to level the final on a tiebreak. Coric then clawed back a 2-4 deficit in the decider before claiming victory in two hours 38 minutes.
It was a huge week for Coric who has suffered a marked loss of form and has slumped to 79 in the rankings having been tipped to challenge for major honors.

HONG KONG French duo Benjamin Thomas and Morgan Kneisky edged out Australia's Cameron Meyer and Callum Scotson to win the men's Madison, while Elinor Barker claimed her first individual world title at the track cycling world championships on Sunday.
Four world titles were awarded on the final day in Hong Kong, with France winning two, and Germany and Britain each claiming one.
Thomas and Kneisky, who lost out to Bradley Wiggins and Mark Cavendish in London last year, displayed incredible endurance to go one further this time around, beating Meyer and Scotson in the 200-lap men's Madison by four points to take gold.
Belgium's Moreno De Pauw and Kenny De Ketele took bronze.
Thomas claimed his second gold medal in this year's world championships, having won the omnium title on Saturday, while Kneisky now has four world titles.
A late surge from Britain's Barker, a team pursuit Olympic champion, saw her snatch the points race title from United States' Sarah Hammer. Kirsten Wild of the Netherlands won the bronze medal, two laps in arrears.
Along with her points race victory, Barker also won scratch and Madison silver.
"I'm incredibly happy," Barker told the BBC. "Until the last lap it was looking like another silver. I'm so happy it was a gold."
Germany's two-time Olympic champion Kristina Vogel did just about enough to retain her keirin title, and in the process win her ninth world title, finishing 0.061 seconds quicker than Colombia's Martha Bayona. Nicky Degrendele of Belgium won bronze.
In the men's 1km time trial, France's world record holder Francois Pervis won the event for the fourth time, finishing comfortably ahead of Czech Republic's Tomas Babek and Frenchman Quentin Lafargue, who tied for silver to the thousandth of a second.
Australia finished top of the medal table with three golds and 11 medals in total. France's final-day heroics saw them leapfrog Russia to finish second. France, who claimed five medals in total, and Russia both won three golds.
This is only the second time the world championship has been held in Asia, with 11 countries winning world titles.

Cristie Kerr took advantage of a meltdown by South Korean Jang Su-yeon to win the LPGA's Lotte Championship by three strokes in Hawaii on Saturday.
Kerr, whose previous win on the U.S. women's golf tour came at the CME Group Tour Championship in 2015, carded a bogey-free six-under-par 66 to finish on a combined 20-under 268 for the tournament.
She played the last two rounds without a blemish on her scorecard, including a 10-under 62 in Friday's third round, and delivered 16 birdies in her final 36 holes.
The American, who earned $300,000 for the win, said her game clicked into gear unexpectedly on Friday.
"On Friday morning I wasn't playing too well and then I just found something and was able to turn it on and I just kept it going," she told the LPGA's official website.
"I can't remember two and a half days after I struggled with my swing feel, and then made so many birdies in my life. It was an unbelievable run."
The 39-year-old credited an encounter with a lucky turtle for turning things around.
"I didn't even think about it until after I shot 10-under (on Friday) that turtles are really good luck for me. They always have been. I went swimming with the turtles on Friday afternoon and I inadvertently touched one," she added.
"The patrols are out there so that you don't harm them, but it kind of swam at me and I touched it, and it was really, really good luck."
Overnight leader Jang could have used some of that luck.
The sponsor's invitee had gone 59 holes without a bogey before dropping three strokes just before the turn to open the door for Kerr.
She finished with an even-par 72 and was one of only two players in the top 30 not to break par in the final round.
Jang, who usually plays on the Korean women's tour, ended in a three-way tie for second place with compatriot Chun In-gee (67) and New Zealand's world number one Lydia Ko (64) on 17 under par.
South Korea's Ryu So-yeon, who won the first major of the year at the ANA Inspiration earlier this month, finished alone in sixth place, five shots behind Kerr.

LOS ANGELES Utah Jazz center Rudy Gobert suffered a sprained left knee in the opening minute of their playoff opener against the Los Angeles Clippers on Saturday and will not return.    Gobert was setting a screen during Utah’s first possession and collided with Clippers forward Luc Mbah a Moute.
Gobert attempted to get back to his feet several times before being helped into the locker room by team mates.
An imposing presence inside for Utah, Gobert led the NBA with 2.6 blocked shots per game during a breakout season that saw him average 14 points and 12.8 rebounds.
There is no immediate news on his availability for the remainder of the series.

KINGSTON Double Olympic sprint champion Elaine Thompson cruised to a wind-assisted 10.75 seconds to win the 100 meters at Jamaica's UTECH Classic on Saturday.
Thompson, who became the first Caribbean woman to win the Olympic 100m and 200m double in Rio last summer, comfortably pulled away to cross the line ahead of Jura Levy (11.19) and Olympic finalist Christania Williams (11.30).
Thompson said she was surprised to run the time so early in the season.
"Actually when I heard the time announced I was shocked but as I say, each time I race I always surprise myself," she told Reuters.
"Honestly there was no plan coming in, I just wanted to work on the first 30 meters of my race because that is kind of my weak area. So I just wanted to execute."
In the men's 100m, 2011 world champion Yohan Blake stumbled from the starting block and Britain's Zharnel Hughes took full advantage, coming home in a wind-aided personal best 10.08.
Olympic and world championship 400m bronze medalist Shericka Jackson clocked a personal best of 22.57 to win the200, the second fastest time in the world behind the 22.29 run by Dafne Schippers. Williams shaved 27 hundredths of a second offer her previous best.
Miguel Francis, who has switched allegiance to Britain from Antigua, won the men's race in 20.44 ahead of Jamaica's Commonwealth Games champion Rasheed Dwyer (20.45).



The Los Angeles Dodgers unveiled a statue on Saturday honoring trailblazer Jackie Robinson, Major League Baseball’s first African American player.
On the 70th anniversary of Hall of Famer Robinson breaking baseball’s color barrier with the Dodgers, all of baseball celebrated the annual Jackie Robinson Day with every player, coach, manager and umpire donning Robinson's No. 42 jersey, which was retired by MLB in 1997.
Ahead of their game against the Arizona Diamondbacks, the Dodgers held a ceremony to unveil a statue depicting Robinson sliding into home plate.
Robinson's wife Rachel and children Sharon and David were in attendance along with a host of Dodgers legends.
Robinson debuted for the Brooklyn Dodgers on April 15 in 1947. He played 10 seasons in the Majors, all with the Dodgers, winning a World Series in 1955 and earning six consecutive All-Star selections ('49-54), as well as a National League Most Valuable Player Award ('49).
Robinson was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in his first appearance on the ballot in 1962, 10 years before his death.

Jason Dufner took advantage of two eagles and a run of three consecutive birdies to take a one-stroke lead over Canadian Graham DeLaet in the RBC Heritage in South Carolina on Saturday.
Dufner, the 2013 PGA Championship winner, collected eagles on the par-five second and fifth holes, then struck for birdies at  the 14th through 16th holes for a round of six-under 65 at Harbour Town Golf Links on Hilton Head Island.
He settled down after an uneven front nine that featured the two eagles, three bogeys and a birdie to stand at 13-under 200.
"It was a little bit of a roller-coaster on the front nine, and it's always nice to get an eagle, let alone two," Dufner told reporters. “I really got it going on the back nine and that bodes well for (Sunday).”
DeLaet, who shared the lead with Luke Donald after Friday's play, bogeyed the final hole to miss an opportunity to tie Dufner.
He shot 69 for the day, making four birdies and two bogies.
"It was disappointing to finish with a bogey on the last hole, but obviously I've been playing well and I'm excited about (Sunday),” said DeLaet who has never won in 159 previous starts on the PGA Tour.
“I'm looking forward to the challenge of playing with Jason (on Sunday). I've played with him a few times before and it should be fun.”
Americans Kevin Kisner (66) and Webb Simpson (68) were tied for third at 202, one stroke in front of England's Ian Poulter (69).
Donald dropped into a tie for sixth at 204 after a one-over par 72.

The Arizona Coyotes signed goaltender Hunter Miska to an entry-level contract on Saturday.
The 21-year-old Miska posted a 27-5-5 record with a 2.20 goals-against average, a .920 save percentage and five shutouts for University of Minnesota-Duluth this season.
Miska was named as a finalist for the Mike Richter award, given annually to the goaltender voted to be the most outstanding in Division I NCAA hockey during the regular season.
In 2015-16, the North Branch, Minnesota native had a 32-13-1 record with 2.46 GAA and .913 save percentage for the Dubuque Fighting Saints of the United States Hockey League.
- - -
The Minnesota Wild recalled goaltender Alex Stalock from the Iowa Wild and reassigned goalie Steve Michalek to their American Hockey League affiliate.
The Wild also activated defenseman Victor Bartley from injured reserve.
Stalock, 29, has a 23-17-8 record with a 2.28 goals-against average, a .926 save percentage and four shutouts in 50 games with Iowa. He went 1-1-0 with a 1.51 GAA and a .944 save percentage in two starts with Minnesota this season.
Bartley, 29, sustained a triceps injury during the preseason and did not appear in a regular-season game with Minnesota.
- - -
The Anaheim Ducks reassigned left winger Ondrej Kase to the San Diego Gulls of the AHL.
Kase, 21, made his NHL playoff debut in Game One of the first round on Thursday night against Calgary, going scoreless on two shots.
In 53 regular-season games with the Ducks in 2016-17, Kase earned 15 points (five goals, 10 assists) and 18 penalty minutes.

Tampa Bay starter Jake Odorizzi left Saturday's game against the Boston Red Sox after throwing his first pitch of the second inning.
Odorizzi, who grabbed his groin/hamstring area, winced after throwing a warmup pitch, which brought Rays manager Kevin Cash and training personnel out of the dugout. Odorizzi appeared to try to stretch and then threw two warmup pitches, but was unable to continue and walked off the mound.
- - -
Third baseman Todd Frazier of the Chicago White Sox left Saturday's game against the Minnesota Twins early because of a recurrence of flu-like symptoms.
Frazier missed two games with symptoms of the flu before returning Friday night as the designated hitter. Frazier was back at third base on Saturday but left after striking out in the fourth inning.
- - -
Second baseman Brian Dozier of the Twins was out of the lineup against the White Sox after feeling some tightness and swelling in his right knee.
Minnesota's chief baseball officer, Derek Falvey, said an MRI exam on Dozier's knee did not show any significant injury.
- - -
New York Yankees designated hitter Matt Holliday was scratched from the lineup against the St. Louis Cardinals due to lower back stiffness.
Holliday was hitless in four at-bats with three strikeouts against the Cardinals on Friday night.
He spent 7 1/2 seasons with St. Louis. He signed a one-year deal to be New York's regular designated hitter and is hitting .242 with one home run and five RBIs to go along with 10 walks.
- - -
Home plate umpire Dale Scott was released from a Toronto hospital Saturday after being removed from the field on a stretcher in Friday night's game between the Blue Jays and Baltimore Orioles.
Scott, a 31-year veteran crew chief, was diagnosed with a concussion after a foul tip off the bat of Baltimore's Mark Trumbo hit him in the bottom part of his mask in the top of the eighth inning.
Scott, 57, staggered backward before going down on one knee after the ball knocked off his mask.
He was mobilized with a neck brace, placed on a stretcher and carted off the field.

Former Baltimore Ravens and Arizona Cardinals tight end Todd Heap accidentally struck and killed his 3-year-old daughter while moving a truck in the driveway at his home in Mesa, Arizona.
The Mesa Police Department responded to the accident about 3:45 p.m. Friday afternoon. Officers were told the girl was on the driveway when her father moved the truck forward and hit her.
Police said the girl was taken to a local hospital, where she later died.
Impairment does not appear to be a factor, according to police. The investigation of the incident is ongoing.
Heap, 37, played 10 seasons with the Ravens after being selected in the first round of the 2001 NFL Draft. He played two years for Arizona before an injury forced his retirement in 2012.
- - -
Wide receiver Martavis Bryant of the Pittsburgh Steelers moved one step closer to being reinstated by the NFL after being suspended for the 2016 season because of violations of the league's substance-abuse policy.
Bryant met on Thursday with the NFL's Management Council in New York as part of his efforts for reinstatement, Alex Marvez of Sporting News reported on Saturday.
Among the conditions for being cleared to play again, Bryant was told to assemble a plan detailing safeguards that would help him prevent a relapse, according to the report.
Bryant eventually will meet with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell or one of his representatives once the league's medical director and medical advisor submit their recommendation about reinstatement.
The NFL suspended Bryant in March 2016 for at least a year after he failed multiple drug tests. The NFL accepts applications no sooner than 60 days before the one-year anniversary of a suspension.
Bryant, 25, also was suspended for the first four games of the 2015 regular season because of violations of the same policy.
Bryant, a fourth-round draft pick by the Steelers in 2014, caught 50 passes for 765 yards and six touchdowns in 11 games during the 2015 season.
- - -
The Buffalo Bills are still deciding whether to pick up the fifth-year option on wide receiver Sammy Watkins' rookie contract.
That decision will be discussed internally over the next couple of weeks before the May 2 deadline, according to WGR 550's Sal Capaccio.
Watkins, 23, is under contract for another season with a salary cap hit of $6.343 million. If the Bills pick up his option, it will cost them about $13 million against the cap in 2018.
Watkins, drafted fourth overall out of Clemson in 2014, missed half of last season because of a foot injury. He underwent two surgeries on the left foot.
Watkins caught 28 passes for 430 yards and two touchdowns last season. He caught 60 or more passes in each of his first two NFL seasons and established career bests of 1,047 yards and nine touchdowns in 2015.

BOSTON A Boston jury on Friday found former New England Patriots football star Aaron Hernandez not guilty of murdering two men outside a Boston nightclub in 2012, following what prosecutors described as a dispute that began over a spilled drink.
The decision comes two years after another Massachusetts jury found the former National Football League tight end guilty of murdering an acquaintance in an industrial park near his home in June 2013. He is currently serving a sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole for that killing.
Except for a weapons possession count, Hernandez was found not guilty of all charges associated with the double murder, including witness intimidation. He was immediately sentenced to an additional four to five years in prison on the weapons conviction and led from the courtroom with tears streaking down his face.
Gasps were heard from the gallery when the initial verdicts were read, and members of the victims' families were led out of the courtroom, also in tears.
"What won this case was a dearth of evidence that connected Hernandez to these shootings," Ron Sullivan, a member of his defense team, told reporters after the verdicts.
Hernandez, now 27, was a rising star in the National Football League when he was arrested in 2013 and charged with murdering acquaintance Odin Lloyd.
More than a year passed before he was charged with the double-murder, which prosecution witnesses said was the result of his paranoid temperament, which led him to constantly suspect people were disrespecting and challenging him.
The jury heard from witnesses including a friend, Alexander Bradley, who said that he was in the car with Hernandez when the football star shot dead Cape Verdean nationals Daniel Abreu and Safiro Furtado outside the Boston nightclub.
Defense lawyer Jose Baez, best known for successfully defending Florida mother Casey Anthony in the 2011 trial in which she was charged with murdering her daughter, relentlessly hammered Bradley's credibility, suggesting that he had killed the men and pinned it on Hernandez in exchange for immunity.
He pointed out holes in the prosecution's case including the absence of forensic evidence tying Hernandez to the shootings - no fingerprints or DNA were found on the gun used in the killing or in the vehicle that Hernandez allegedly fired from.
Baez contended that investigators focused on Hernandez as a suspect because of his fame, and disregarded evidence that pointed away from the NFL star, who had a $41 million contract at the time of his arrest.
"They don't want you to base your decision on evidence, they want you to base it on prejudice. They want you to say he's got tattoos, he's different than us. They want you to say he's a celebrity, he's different from us," Baez told the jury in his closing argument. "That's what they're basing their case on."
Dan Conley, district attorney of Suffolk County, said the not-guilty verdicts showed the difficulty of solving a drive-by shooting.
"Our theory of this case stands," he told reporters, "It points inescapably to Hernandez."

Short game maestro Luke Donald and Canadian Graham DeLaet both holed-out on Friday on the way to grabbing a share of the lead on 10-under-par after two rounds of the RBC Heritage in South Carolina.
Donald found the hole on a short pitch shot, nipping the ball off the grass short of the green into a mound and making it pause after one big bounce before the ball trickled into the cup for birdie at the last to complete a four-under 67.
That tied the English former world number one with early starter DeLaet, who holed out a wedge shot from 109 yards to eagle the par-four ninth on his way to 67 on the Harbour Town layout.
European Ryder Cup stalwart Ian Poulter of England and 2012 U.S. Open winner Webb Simpson were two shots back at eight-under 134, one stroke better than five players including first-round leader Bud Cauley, who followed an opening 63 with 72.
Donald leaned heavily on his short game as he lost control off the tee, hitting just seven fairways yet grabbing a share of the lead in his quest to take the next step after four runner-up finishes here.
"It was a little bit of a struggle today, but my short game
certainly bailed me out," Donald, 39, told Golf Channel.
"The greens are very small and you're not going to hit all of them, so you need to be good around the greens. I proved that the last couple of holes."
DeLaet, seeking his first PGA Tour victory after three second-place finishes and three thirds, vaulted up the leaderboard with a red-hot run around the turn.
"I had a nice little stretch in the middle of my round. I birdied eight, then there was the ninth. At 10, I missed an eight-footer for birdie, and I birdied 11 and 12," he said.
DeLaet is one of eight players to have accumulated $10 million in earnings without a victory.
Donald said winning on Sunday would bring vindication.
"Would be a little bit of coming back to what I really feel like I can play," he said. "The last couple of years have been a struggle, but I still feel like I've got some good years in me. I need to try and finish it off this weekend."


(The Sports Xchange) - New York Knicks president Phil Jackson said on Friday that All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony "would be better off somewhere else."
Jackson, meeting with the media two days after the Knicks completed their fourth consecutive losing season, said the team will continue to explore trade options for the 10-time All-Star.
"We've not been able to win with (Anthony) on the court at this time," Jackson said.
"I think the direction with our team is that he's a player that would be better off somewhere else and using his talent somewhere where he can win or chase that championship."
New York went 31-51, falling well short of expectations with its third consecutive 50-loss season.
The Knicks posted an 80-166 mark and missed the playoffs in each of the first three years under the watch of Jackson, who won a record 11 NBA titles as head coach for the Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers.
"I never took a jump shot. I never made a substitution, but the buck stops here," Jackson said.
Anthony, 32, and Jackson were at odds throughout the season because of trade speculation. As tension grew between the two, Anthony at one point said he wanted to remain with the Knicks and would not waive his no-trade clause.
"If somebody was talking bad about you indirectly at your job, what would you do?" Anthony said earlier this week. "You would want that person to come straightforward with you. And I feel the same way. I'm a very honest person."
Anthony said after Wednesday's final game of another disappointing season with the Knicks that he was "open" to be traded this summer.
He averaged 22.4 points, 5.9 rebounds and 2.9 assists in 74 games in 2016-17, his sixth full season with the Knicks.
"He's carried the basic load for this team," Jackson said Friday. "I thought he stood up well this year in a lot of tough situations.
"(But) Obviously, it hasn't worked out as a partnership."
Jackson said he met with Anthony on Thursday.
"Our meeting was not contentious at all, it was cordial," Jackson told reporters. "So we'll go forward with that.
"We'll take into account (Anthony's) consideration. This is not a situation we're going to dump you.
"Right now we need players who are very active, can play every single play, defensively and offensively. That's very important for us and that's the direction we have to go."

MANAMA McLaren Formula One boss Zak Brown is 'barking mad' to let Fernando Alonso race the Indianapolis 500 with so little experience of ovals, Red Bull team principal Christian Horner said on Friday.
McLaren announced earlier in the week that the Spaniard, a double world champion, would miss the May 28 Monaco Grand Prix to compete at The Brickyard in the biggest event in U.S. open-wheel racing.
The switch has been made easier by McLaren's lack of competitiveness in Formula One, with the once-great team currently last in the championship without a point after two races and Alonso clearly frustrated with the situation.
"Look, it's a difficult one for Fernando, he's having a tough time," Horner, smiling, told reporters at the Bahrain Grand Prix.
"Zak's got the problem of a depressed driver on his hands,  he's trying to keep him motivated and he's come up with this idea to send him to Indianapolis. He must be barking mad, it's the nuttiest race I've ever seen.
"No testing, he's just going to jump in the car...Turn One there is a proper turn as well, it's not just easy flat all the  way round. So I think he needs to see a psychiatrist, personally."
Indy Car racing has a reputation as a considerably riskier series than Formula One, with cars running nose-to-tail at around 240 mph.
Last year's race was won by a rookie, however, former F1 driver Alexander Rossi with the same Andretti Autosport team that will run Alonso's car.
Horner said he would not have let his drivers, Dutch teenager Max Verstappen and Australian Daniel Ricciardo, race in the event.
"I think if a driver commits to a team it's like disappearing with another girlfriend half way through the year, it doesn't seem like the right thing to do," he said.
Brown, an American former racer and marketing expert who was appointed McLaren's executive director last year, defended himself as he sat next to Horner in a post-practice news conference.
"Fernando's not scared," he said. "He's going to get some testing in. He is studying Indianapolis, it's obviously going to be a challenge but he wants a challenge.
"I think he'll have a car capable of running at the front, and I think he will be extremely prepared. I think he's going to put on a good show and he's very smart. And that's what you need to be around Indianapolis.
"I think it's going to be good, everyone's going to be watching."

MANAMA Former commercial supremo Bernie Ecclestone returned to the Formula One paddock on Friday, for the first time since he was ousted in January, and revealed how little involvement he has had with the new management.
The 86-year-old, who ran Formula One for decades, said he had yet to meet the sport's new commercial manager Sean Bratches.
"Never met Sean, I met (motorsport manager) Ross (Brawn) for 10 minutes this year and I knew Ross from the past obviously and I feel sorry for (chairman) Chase (Carey) being thrown in the deep end," the 86-year-old told reporters at the Bahrain Grand Prix.
Carey, who is also at the Bahrain race, was not immediately available for comment.
Brawn is a Formula One veteran -- a former technical director at Ferrari, principal of Honda's team and winning the 2009 world championship with his own Brawn outfit before selling to Mercedes, where he was also the boss.
He and Bratches attended the season-opening race in Australia.
Ecclestone was appointed 'chairman emeritus', a job with no defined role, after being moved away from the helm and replaced by Carey.
Formula One Management has moved out of its old headquarters into new premises away from Ecclestone.
Asked whether he was acting as a consultant to them, he replied that "they’ve never asked me anything" although he had spoken to Carey earlier on Friday as well as several times in recent weeks.
"I’m busier now than I have been in the past, with the same sort of things. I’m still busy," added the Briton, who spent time on Friday talking to Red Bull principal Christian Horner and Mercedes' non-executive chairman Niki Lauda.

One of the fiercest MVP debates basketball has seen in years will add another chapter when the NBA Playoffs open this weekend with award frontrunners Russell Westbrook and James Harden meeting face to face.
In one corner: Oklahoma City’s Westbrook, who averaged the league’s second ever triple-double with dizzying numbers of 31.6 points per game, 10.7 rebounds and 10.4 assists for the Thunder.
In the other: the bearded Harden, who facilitated a surprising Rockets surge to 55 wins while putting up 29.1 points, 11.2 assists and 8.1 rebounds for Houston.
Individual mastery or team superiority? The first-round matchup between the number three seed Rockets and sixth-seeded  Thunder will have no bearing on the MVP trophy but will be yet another talking point in the raging discussion.
Defending champion Cleveland Cavaliers and top-seeded Golden State Warriors have a chance to extend their own rivalry - and become the first teams ever to meet in three straight NBA Finals – if they can overcome hurdles.
The Cavs lost 14 of their final 24 games to drop to second in the Eastern Conference, behind the Boston Celtics, and enter the postseason shakily with a first-round matchup vs. the Indiana Pacers that launches the playoffs on Saturday.
“It's been strange events this season, unfortunate events, some of them bad, some of them good but at the end of the day I can't have my mind focused on the past now,” three-time champion LeBron James told reporters.
“The present is the only thing that matters.”
In the West, the Warriors caught a late-season rhythm but did so mostly without prized off-season acquisition Kevin Durant, who missed 19 games with a knee sprain and is being reinserted into the lineup on the fly.
Golden State put their All-Star backcourt of Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson against Portland’s own impressive guard duo of Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum in the opening round against the Blazers.
“They are two great phenomenal scorers who can go off at any time,” Thompson said about Portland’s backcourt, before adding “We’re all excited, we’re locked in."
The West’s second-seeded San Antonio Spurs look to put recent playoff disappointments behind and open against Memphis.

The series will pit Spanish brothers Pau Gasol (Spurs) and Marc Gasol (Grizzlies) against one another for the first time in the playoffs.
Despite their current core of stars Chris Paul and Blake Griffin, the Los Angeles Clippers have never advanced beyond the playoff’s second round.
The Clippers will take another crack at it beginning against the Utah Jazz and their emerging French big man Rudy Gobert.
In the East, the Celtics seek to prove that their scrappy run to the top of the East was not a fluke.
The Toronto Raptors and Washington Wizareds are viewed as the other East contenders tasked with trying to stop James from reaching his seventh consecutive Finals.
The Raptors play their first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks, while the Wizards try to work their magic against the Atlanta Hawks.

SAN FRANCISCO The Golden State Warriors enter the NBA playoffs this weekend looking for redemption after last season's shocking defeat in the Finals, where the team blew a 3-1 lead to the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven series.
Despite the unprecedented championship series collapse, expectations for the Warriors to win the title this year are sky high, and for good reason.
In the offseason they added one of the league's premier scorers, former league Most Valuable Player Kevin Durant, who quickly adapted to the team's fast-paced and unselfish brand of basketball.
Despite an injury to Durant late in the season that kept him sidelined for 19 games, the team finished with NBA's best overall record, ensuring home court advantage throughout the playoffs.
Durant returned to the starting lineup earlier this month and has shown no sign of lingering problems from the knee injury, boosting the Warriors' odds of winning.
Westgate Las Vegas Superbook on Thursday listed the Warriors as 1-2 favorites to bring Oakland their second championship trophy in three years.
ESPN analyst and former NBA head coach Jeff Van Gundy on Thursday anointed the Warriors the champions before the first playoff game had even been played.
"Golden State is your champion. It won't be close," Van Gundy told ESPN's The Lowe Post podcast.
"No one is gonna push them. It's over."
The Warriors faced similarly high expectations going into last year's playoffs after they won an NBA-record 73 games during the season, which made their inability to claim the title all the more shocking.
Even that disappointment could pale in comparison to this year should the team fail to win it all.
"For the Warriors, it's obviously championship or bust," Turner Sports analyst Reggie Miller and Hall of Fame shooting guard told reporters on Thursday.
"You don't go out and get Kevin Durant and be happy to get to the Conference Finals or the NBA Finals and lose. They have to win a championships. Period."
Turner Sports analyst and former coach Kevin McHale said Durant will be key to helping the Warriors finish off close games, something they were unable to do in Game Seven of last year's Finals when they surrendered their lead late in the fourth quarter to LeBron James and the Cavs.
"KD makes them better. He's a closer," McHale told reporters.

MANAMA Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel was fastest in Bahrain Grand Prix practice on Friday with the joint Formula One championship leader comfortably quicker than his Mercedes rival Lewis Hamilton despite problems in the second session.
The four times world champion lapped 0.400 faster than Red Bull's Australian Daniel Ricciardo in the afternoon and then pipped Mercedes' Valtteri Bottas by 0.041 under the evening floodlights.
Hamilton, the triple champion who won the previous race in China after Vettel's success in the Australian opener and shares the overall lead with 43 points, was 10th and fifth respectively.
Neither had a trouble free evening, however, with Vettel suffering what he called a "complete shutdown" on his car with half an hour to go.
The German was pushed into the pits by marshals and returned to the track 15 minutes later.
"It was not the best day for us, we still need to improve the car...On one lap it was OK. (on a) long run we might be quite a bit behind, but I am sure we can improve for tomorrow," said Vettel.
Hamilton ran off the track after being baulked by Nico Hulkenberg's Renault.
"These drivers are just so dangerous," the Briton said over the team radio, with both drivers later summoned to see the stewards.
Ricciardo was third in the evening with Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen fourth after his afternoon session went up in smoke, with the Finn abandoning his smoking car and trudging off in the desert heat.
The solitary walk through the arid landscape in overalls and helmet, before being collected by a scooter, was an arresting sight -- and also typical of a driver with 'Iceman' tattooed on his left arm.
"Walking through the desert in 37C heat. In full race suit. Helmet on. Only the Iceman is cool enough to do it," the official formula1.com website observed on its Twitter feed.

ENGINE CHANGE
While Raikkonen built up a sweat, Vettel settled in at the top of the timesheets with a best lap of one minute 32.697 seconds. He did 1:31.310 in the cooler evening conditions, with Raikkonen fourth after an engine change.
Champions Mercedes had been more focused on longer runs with heavier fuel loads in the searing afternoon heat, with Bottas only 14th.
They speeded up in the evening and did more laps than anyone.
"It's definitely tougher than before, driving in the heat with these new cars. But I'm used to being in a Finnish sauna, so it's no problem," commented Bottas.
The 'T-wing', fixed on the engine cover of the Finn's car, broke free during the second session and was collected by Verstappen's Red Bull, damaging the car's floor.
"It did about 50,000 pounds ($62,650) of damage so I think they should be banned on grounds of safety and cost," said Red Bull principal Christian Horner.
Mercedes non-executive chairman Niki Lauda spent much of the opening session chatting to the sport's former commercial supremo Bernie Ecclestone, who was appearing at a race for the first time since he was shuffled aside by chairman Chase Carey and Formula One's new owners Liberty Media.
Red Bull's Max Verstappen was third and eighth fastest.
German driver Pascal Wehrlein, who missed the first two races with a back injury, returned with Sauber and was 18th and 19th in the two sessions.
McLaren's Belgian rookie Stoffel Vandoorne, who scored a point in Bahrain last year as a stand-in, had a troubled day and stopped on track with engine problems 21 minutes from the end of the first session.

SAO PAULO At least six of Brazil's World Cup arenas, including the Maracana stadium where the final was staged in 2014, are under scrutiny in a wave of new political corruption investigations launched by the country's Supreme Court this week.
Newly unsealed plea bargain testimony from engineering group Odebrecht [ODBES.UL] cited irregularities at the Corinthians Arena in Sao Paulo, the National Stadium in Brasilia, the Pernambuco Arena in Recife, the Castelao Arena in Fortaleza and the Amazonia Arena in Manaus, along with the Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro.
Supreme Court Justice Edson Fachin began releasing his findings on Tuesday, but details are still emerging from the hours of recorded testimony from 77 current and former executives at the politically connected Odebrecht Group.
Evidence that builders and politicians collaborated to fix contracts reinforces suspicions that many of the 12 stadiums built or renovated for the 2014 World Cup were overpriced.
The Maracana was slated to cost 700 million reais ($225 million) but eventually topped 1 billion reais. The Corinthians arena in Sao Paulo was originally going to be a smaller stadium built for 350 million reais but the cost rose above 1 billion reais after it was decided to hold the opening match there.
Brasilia's National Stadium, which was merely renovated for the tournament, was the most expensive of all, at 1.4 billion reais.
The Odebrecht executives gave their testimony as part of a settlement with U.S., Brazilian and Swiss authorities in the biggest-ever foreign bribery case. Politicians named in the testimony have denied any wrongdoing and now have the opportunity to present evidence of their innocence.
According to testimony released by the Supreme Court, at least five Odebrecht executives confirmed payments were made to secure what they called "an unfair advantage associated with work on the Maracana stadium."
In Pernambuco, Manaus and Fortaleza, Odebrecht and another construction company collaborated to "frustrate the competitive character of the bidding process."
Companies also combined to inflate the price of a roof for the National stadium, according to the testimony.
Brazil's biggest-ever graft investigation, which this week produced probes into nearly 100 politicians, has already jailed dozens of business leaders and money launderers over billions of dollars in bribes for public works deals with state companies.

BOSTON Ethiopian runner Lemi Berhanu Hayle will defend his Boston Marathon title in a wide open race on Monday against a men's field that includes the first American champion in three decades and no clear favorite.
Berhanu Hayle won last year's race in two hours 12 minutes  44 seconds after pulling away from twice champion and countryman Lelisa Desisa, who is not competing this year.
The last men's repeat winner was five-time champion Robert Kipkoech Cheruiyot of Kenya, who completed a triple in 2008.
An Ethiopian woman, Atsede Baysa, will also be defending her title after winning in 2:29:19.
Berhanu Hayle's main challengers will include countryman Sisay Lemma, who ran 2:05:16 in Dubai last year, and Kenyans Geoffrey Kirui who ran 2:06:27 in Amsterdam last year and Emmanuel Mutai, who was second in New York and Chicago, and has the field's fastest personal best of 2:03:13.
The hilly Boston course usually leads to slower times than other major marathons.
"Any move (Berhanu Hayle) makes will be taken seriously by the others," said Scott Douglas, a contributing editor at Runner's World. "With no clear standouts this year, Boston will be a very interesting race to watch."
Making a farewell appearance will be Meb Keflezighi, who gave Boston an emotional boost when he became the first American man to win in three decades in 2014, one year after a pair of brothers of Chechen origin killed three people and injured more than 200 at the finish line with a pair of homemade bombs.
Keflezighi, 41, plans to retire from competition after November's New York City marathon.
"It will be very emotional to get to Hopkinton (where the race starts), but I'm excited. I know the course and I'm 100 percent healthy," he said.
Galen Rupp, who won marathon bronze at the Rio Olympics but has had foot problems this year, and Jared Ward, who wrote his masters thesis on marathon pacing, join a large U.S. contingent.
Strong women contenders include Kenyans Gladys Cherono, Edna Kiplagat and Brigid Kosgei.
These women will be racing in part because of Kathrine Switzer, who became the first woman to finish the then all-male Boston race with a bib 50 years ago.
Switzer, 70, will wear the same number - 261 - when she steps to the line to race again on Monday. "I will put on the full regalia: the bib plus the eye liner, mascara and lipstick," she said.

LONDON IAAF president Sebastian Coe said on Thursday he had every confidence in the security surrounding August's world athletics championships in London having had a close-up view of operations during the 2012 Olympics in the city.
In the light of the attack on the Borussia Dortmund team bus before the Champions League match on Tuesday, Coe was asked whether security was being reviewed for the world championships.
"I can use my London (2012) experience here," Coe told a news conference in the city following a meeting of the Council of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF).
"The best type of security is the security you never discuss," added the man who was head of the organizing committee of the 2012 Games which passed off without any major security issues.
"It is incremental and sequential and delivered in the light of all sorts of prevailing intelligence," Coe said.
"This is a city that does that probably better than pretty much anywhere in the world and we have a record of doing it extraordinarily well.
"So I am absolutely sure that the intelligence agencies, the Metropolitan Police and the plethora of other agencies will be looking at that all the time."
In Dortmund, three devices exploded near the team bus as it was taking players to the stadium to play a Champions League game against Monaco.
One player was injured and a man who, according to German prosecutors, was suspected of being a member of the Islamic State group was detained over the incident. The game had to be postponed until Wednesday.

The NBA's regular season may have drawn to a close but the venerable careers of several veteran players keeps forging ahead with no clear end in sight.
A league that seemingly keeps getting younger is still holding court for the last standing relics of basketball's previous era.
Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki, Manu Ginobili, Jason Terry, Paul Pierce and Metta World Peace carry the torch of the past as the only remaining NBA players who were drafted in the 1990s.
Hair has thinned and physiques have softened, but the aging competitors have survived the changing league while holding off Father Time.
Only Pierce, in his 19th season and headed to the playoffs with the Los Angeles Clippers, has proclaimed this campaign his last and embraced a farewell tour. The others play on, focusing on the battle in front of them rather than the days behind them.
"I want to play a long time," World Peace, 37, told the LA Daily News. "All I got to do is work hard. I know what I have to do to get there. I set those goals a long time ago."
World Peace has played through evolving styles and name changes. He entered the league as Ron Artest in 1999 before becoming Metta World Peace in 2011.
Though he averaged less than seven minutes a game with the Los Angeles Lakers this season he still possesses a physical presence that is ready when called upon.
Carter, 40, has seen his high-flying routine grounded in recent years but has prevailed with a work ethic that has allowed the Memphis Grizzlies forward to tally 2,048 career three-pointers, currently tied for fifth all-time.
Not coincidentally, Terry (2,242) and Pierce (2,143) are third and fourth, respectively, on that list.
"How you take care of yourself (is a key to longevity)," Grizzlies coach David Fizdale told Reuters.
"Vince doesn't have many days off. I went to see him in the summer and he has a gym built at his house with a full basketball court. When it comes to his nutrition and work ethic, he takes it very seriously."
Nowitzki's relentless work culminated last month when the Dallas Mavericks forward became just the sixth player in NBA history to reach 30,000 points.
A 13-time All Star, Nowitzki is one the game’s greatest international standouts, a discussion the Argentinean Ginobili also finds himself in.
Ginobili, 39, will try to add to his four NBA titles with the San Antonio Spurs in this year's playoffs.
And while the NBA debates the new school approach of top teams resting their best players throughout the season, the lingering faces of the 90s remind that simply playing hard every night can still stand the test of time.

BERLIN A German judge authorized on Thursday the arrest of a 26-year-old Iraqi man detained after an attack on a bus carrying players of a soccer team, and prosecutors said they believed he was a member of Islamic State.
The Federal Prosecutor's Office said the man, identified as Abdul Beset A., had joined Islamic State in Iraq by the end of 2014 at the latest and had led a 10-man command unit there. The jihadist group controls parts of Iraq and Syria.
"The task of his unit was to prepare abductions, kidnappings, extortions and killings," the prosecutor's office said in a statement.
The man traveled to Turkey in March 2015 and from there on to Germany in early 2016.
"Also from Germany, the accused continued to maintain contacts with members of 'IS'," it added, citing the grounds for the arrest.
Earlier, the prosecutor's office there was no evidence that the man had taken part in the attack in the western city of Dortmund.
Three explosions went off as the Borussia Dortmund bus traveled to the club's stadium for their Champions League match against AS Monaco on Tuesday, injuring Spanish defender Marc Bartra and delaying the fixture by a day.
Security is an issue in campaigning for Germany's federal election on Sept. 24, a tight battle in which Chancellor Angela Merkel is seeking a fourth term. In December, a Tunisian man killed 12 people when he ploughed a truck through a Berlin Christmas market.
Last year, Merkel lost support to the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany (AfD) party after opening the country's doors to more than a million migrants. The AfD has since seen its ratings fall while the chancellor has regained some poise.

MILITARY DETONATORS
Bild newspaper said on Thursday that military detonators had been used to set off the three explosive devices, probably remotely using a mobile phone.
Three identical letters printed in German found near the scene of the attack in Dortmund suggested a possible Islamist motive for the attack.
One of the letters, published by Bild, starts with the Islamic phrase "In the Name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful" and demands the withdrawal of German Tornado surveillance planes from Syria and the closure of the U.S. military air base in Ramstein, Germany.
"As of now, all infidel actors, singers, athletes and all prominent personalities in Germany and other crusader nations are on a death list of the Islamic State," the letter said.
Bild said prosecutors were also investigating two additional suspects in the attack, one a neo-Nazi sympathizer and another from a radical leftist group.


Dustin Johnson will make his first start since withdrawing from last week's U.S. Masters when he competes in the Wells Fargo Championship at Eagle Point Golf Club in North Carolina from May 4-7, the tournament's director said on Thursday.
"We certainly are excited that Dustin will be joining us in Wilmington in a few weeks," Wells Fargo Championship Executive Director Kym Hougham said in a statement. "More importantly, we are glad that he is OK and will be returning to the PGA Tour."
World number one Johnson, who walked off the first tee and withdrew from the Masters a day after slipping down a staircase and injuring his lower back, had been favorite to win at Augusta National.
The 32-year-old American, who won last year's U.S. Open and took over as the world number one in February, had arrived at the Masters having won each of his previous three events.
Johnson's best finish in the Wells Fargo Championship was a tie for 29th in 2010. In his two other starts, he missed the cut.
There are currently six players among the top-20 in the world now in the Wells Fargo field as Johnson joins Australian Adam Scott, Swede Alex Noren, Spaniard Jon Rahm and the US pair of Patrick Reed and Phil Mickelson.
Players have until April 28 to commit to the field.

BERLIN A German judge on Thursday approved an arrest warrant against an Iraqi man detained after an attack against a bus carrying players belonging to the Borussia Dortmund soccer team, the Federal Prosecutor's Office said in a statement.
Prosecutors earlier said the 26-year-old man is suspected of having been a member of the Islamic State militant group in Iraq before arriving in Germany in early 2016.
They added that there was no proof yet that the man had taken part in the attack in Dortmund.
The judge who approved the arrest warrant is from the Federal Court of Justice, the country's highest court for criminal and civil jurisdiction.

MANAMA Fernando Alonso's in-flight movies will be all about the Indianapolis 500 for the next few weeks as the double Formula One world champion gears up for a challenge that he is far from ready for.
The Spaniard outlined a busy agenda to reporters at the Bahrain Grand Prix on Thursday ahead of a string of races on two continents.
Alonso's McLaren team announced on Wednesday that he will miss the showcase Monaco Grand Prix to race in the 101st edition of the U.S. race, with a car run by last year's winners Andretti Autosport.
"Next weekend I will be in Alabama just visiting the race and meeting the team members to see how things go there," he said, referring to the third round of the Indy Car season at Barber Motorsports Park on April 21-23.
"Probably on Monday after the race I will do the seat fitting, and then I will fly to Russia."
The Russian Grand Prix in Sochi follows on from Bahrain as the fourth round of the F1 season.
"After Russia, I will try to be in Indianapolis for a couple of simulator days, hopefully test the car but it's not 100 percent sure, and after that I will go to the Spanish Grand Prix and then fly to America on Sunday after the race," he said.
Free practice at the famed Brickyard takes place on the Monday after the Formula One race at the Circuit de Catalunya. The Indy 500 is on May 28, the same weekend as Monaco.
"On the planes, I will try and look at some videos and races from past years and try to learn as quick as I can," said Alonso.
"It's completely different skills that you need there, to adapt to the car and circuit, strategies, ways of racing that close and at that speed. Many things I have to learn and I am not ready at the moment.
"I don't feel prepared now, I am not in my comfort zone driving those cars or thinking about those cars but I am not afraid of trying, of not delivering a good result," added the 35-year-old, who was confident he would adapt.
McLaren won at Indianapolis in the 1970s, and have also triumphed at Le Mans, with Alonso now dreaming of a Triple Crown that only one driver -- Britain's Graham Hill -- has achieved.
He also wants to feel like a winner again after two tough seasons with McLaren.
"The possibility to win a big race, a big trophy like the Indy 500 in the middle of a year is like winning a World Championship in one weekend," he said.

LONDON The 50km walk will remain in the Olympics and world championships after the IAAF voted unanimously to retain the longest event in the athletics program.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) had put pressure on the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) to drop the event, starting with the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, partly because there is no women's race over the distance.
Women do race over the distance in the world race walking championships, but their longest event at the Olympics is 20km, which was introduced in 2000.
"The IAAF support for the 50km fully comports with the objectives of the IAAF Constitution," American lawyer Paul DeMeester said following the decision by the IAAF's Council in London on Thursday.
"When it comes to the inclusion of women athletes, the IAAF has been miles ahead of the IOC," added DeMeester, in London to support the 50km distance.
"The IAAF recognizes world records for women at 50km and is allowing women to participate in the 50km walk at the world championships in London in August."

(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday's National Hockey League games:

Sharks 3, Oilers 2 (OT)
Melker Karlsson's wrist-shot goal at 3:22 of overtime gave the San Jose Sharks a win over the Edmonton Oilers in Game 1 of their Western Conference first-round series.
Cam Talbot made 41 saves for the Oilers, while Sharks goalie Martin Jones stopped 17 shots, most of them in the first period.
Paul Martin and Joel Ward scored in regulation for the Sharks while Oscar Klefbom and Milan Lucic scored for the Oilers.

Blues 2, Wild 1 (OT)
Goalie Jake Allen had a season-high 51 saves and Vladimir Sobotka scored in regulation for the St. Louis Blues, giving them a 1-0 lead in their best-of-seven series against Minnesota.
The Blues were less than a minute from winning in regulation, but Wild left winger Zach Parise's goal with 22.7 seconds left forged a tie after Minnesota's first 43 shots had been turned aside by Allen.

Penguins 3, Blue Jackets 1
Marc-Andre Fleury, a last-minute starter after goaltender Matt Murray got hurt during the pregame warmup, stopped 31 of 32 shots as Pittsburgh beat Columbus in Game 1 of a first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.
The Penguins built a 3-0 lead in the second period with goals from Bryan Rust, Phil Kessel and Nick Bonino. Evgeni Malkin added two assists.
The Blue Jackets spoiled Fleury's bid for his ninth career playoff shutout when Matt Calvert scored from the slot at 12:41 of the third.

Bruins 2, Senators 1
Brad Marchand scored with 2:33 left in regulation as Boston rallied in the third period for a victory over Ottawa.
Bobby Ryan scored for the Senators, while Frank Vatrano also scored for the Bruins.
Tuukka Rask made 26 saves in the Boston net while Craig Anderson stopped 23 shots for Ottawa.

NY Rangers 2, Canadiens 0
Tanner Glass' first-period goal helped New York beat Montreal in the opener of an Eastern Conference playoff series.
Michael Grabner added a late empty-net goal for the Rangers, who got 31 saves from Henrik Lundqvist.
(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday's National Basketball Association games:

Bulls 112, Nets 73
Jimmy Butler scored a team-high 25 points as the Chicago Bulls clinched a berth in the Eastern Conference playoffs with a 112-73 victory over the Brooklyn Nets on Wednesday.
Rookie forward Paul Zipser added a career-high 21 points off the bench as the Bulls (41-41) earned the number eight seed. They will meet top seeded Boston.
Archie Goodwin scored 20 points to lead the Nets, who benched a half-dozen players in their final game. Brooklyn (20-62) finished with the worst record in the NBA and the fourth-most losses in franchise history.

Pacers 104, Hawks 86
Paul George tallied 32 points and 11 rebounds, and Jeff Teague added 19 points and seven assists before rolling his left ankle late in the fourth quarter, leading Indiana to a playoff-clinching victory over Atlanta.
The Pacers earned the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference and will open against the second-seeded Cleveland Cavaliers. Teague went directly to the locker room after being injured with 2:06 to play.
Having clinched the number five spot in the East on Tuesday, Atlanta rested Kent Bazemore, Tim Hardaway Jr, Dwight Howard, Paul Millsap and Dennis Schroder. The Hawks will begin the playoffs against the fourth-seeded Washington Wizards.

Jazz 101, Spurs 97
Gordon Hayward scored 14 points and Rudy Gobert, George Hill and Shelvin Mack added 13 apiece to help Utah extend its home winning streak to a season-best nine games with a victory over San Antonio.
LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points and Kawhi Leonard and Tony Parker added 14 apiece to lead the Spurs, who have lost four straight as they prepare to open the playoffs against the Memphis Grizzlies.
The fifth-seeded Jazz will oppose the fourth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers in a first-round Western Conference playoff series.

Heat 110, Wizards 102
Goran Dragic scored 28 points but Miami fell short of reaching the playoffs despite a win over Washington.
The Heat became the first team in league history to finish .500 or above after being at least 12 games below parity. Miami reversed an 11-30 record the first half of the season with a 30-11 finish.
Trey Burke scored 27 points for the playoff-bound Wizards, who played without John Wall and Bradley Beal. Otto Porter Jr, who was inactive in Washington's previous two games, scored 11 points in 15 minutes.

Celtics 112, Bucks 94
Gerald Green scored 18 points and Boston emerged with the top seed for the Eastern Conference playoffs after beating Milwaukee.
Jae Crowder and Amir Johnson each had 16 points, Isaiah Thomas finished with 13 points and eight assists, and Al Horford added 12 points for the Celtics.
Spencer Hawes and Michael Beasley each had 15 points for the Bucks, who also rested most their starters after securing the sixth seed in the East on Tuesday.

Raptors 98, Cavaliers 83
Norman Powell led all scorers with 25 points as Toronto pounded Cleveland.
Cleveland was without LeBron James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love. Iman Shumpert was the Cavs' leading scorer with 11 points.
The Cavaliers will be the second seed entering the Eastern Conference playoffs. The Raptors are the third seed.

Magic 113, Pistons 109
Aaron Gordon had 32 points and 12 rebounds in leading Orlando over Detroit.
Elfrid Payton scored 21 points, including six in the final 1:10 to ice the victory. The Pistons trailed throughout the night and never led by more than two points.

Knicks 114, 76ers 113
Maurice Ndour's step-back jumper with 18.3 seconds remaining lifted New York over Philadelphia.
The Knicks trailed by nine entering the fourth quarter and tied the score three times before Ndour's game-winner. Carmelo Anthony, who may have played his final game with New York, scored 17 points.

Mavericks 100, Grizzlies 93
Dallas snapped a five-game losing streak with a season-ending win over Memphis.
Nicolas Brussino scored 15 points and Devin Harris had 15 points and eight assists off the bench for the Mavericks.
The Grizzlies will be the seventh seed in the Western Conference playoffs, where they will meet the second-seeded San Antonio Spurs in the first round.

Rockets 123, Timberwolves 118
James Harden recorded his 22nd triple-double and Houston tuned up for the post-season with a win over Minnesota.
Harden posted 27 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists to pace a balanced scoring attack for the Rockets (55-27), whose win total matched the fourth-most in team history.

Nuggets 111, Thunder 105
Nikola Jokic scored 29 points to lead Denver over Oklahoma City.
Jokic went 9-of-14 from the field and 11-of-14 from the free-throw line and had 16 rebounds and eight assists. Jamal Murray added 27 points for the Nuggets.

Clippers 115, Kings 95
It took until the final night of the season to make it official but Los Angeles secured home-court advantage for the first round of the playoffs with a win over Sacramento.
DeAndre Jordan tallied 18 points and 17 rebounds. J.J. Redick added 18 points, and Chris Paul 17 for the Clippers, who will host the Utah Jazz in the opening round.

Warriors 109, Lakers 94
Kevin Durant stamped himself ready for the post-season with 29 points in 27 minutes, lifting Golden State over Los Angeles.
Stephen Curry added 20 points for the Warriors, who will begin the playoffs with home-court advantage in any matchup based on their best-in-basketball 67-15 regular-season record.

Pelicans 103, Trail Blazers 100
New Orleans erased a nine-point deficit in the final eight minutes to beat Portland.
The Miami Heat completed a stirring second half to the NBA regular season by setting a new milestone on Wednesday but their brilliance was not rewarded with a playoff berth as the growing trend of resting players took on extra significance.
The Heat were the victims this time, their season drawing to a close earlier than they would have preferred despite a 110-102 victory over the Washington Wizards.
Miami made an awful start to the campaign and were 11-30 at the halfway mark, but the Heat became the first team to rally from more than 12 games below .500 and avoid a losing record.
They finished 41-41 and needed either the Chicago Bulls or Indiana Pacers to lose their final games to reach the playoffs.
The Bulls, however, breezed to a 112-73 victory against a Brooklyn Nets team missing six players, while the Pacers cruised to a 104-86 win over the playoff-bound Atlanta Hawks, who rested five players ahead of the post-season.
"The league has got to step in here, because this is a very big black eye for this league," former NBA Coach of the Year Hubie Brown said during the Indiana-Atlanta game.
NBA commissioner Adam Silver has expressed concern at the practice of resting so many players, but apart from promising to schedule teams to play less games on consecutive days, it has offered few other answers on how to solve the problem.
Boston clinched the top seed in the East, ahead of the Cleveland Cavaliers, who lost their last four games, playing the final two without LeBron James and Kyrie Irving.
In the Western Conference, there was nothing at stake on Wednesday except for home court advantage for the series between the Los Angeles Clippers and Utah Jazz.
The Clippers had to win their game against Sacramento to clinch the fourth seed ahead of Utah, and they did so easily, 115-95.

Match-ups for the first round of the playoffs.
Eastern Conference:
Boston (1) v Chicago (8)
Cleveland (2) v Indiana (7)
Toronto (3) v Milwaukee (6)
Washington (4) v Atlanta (5)

Western Conference:
Golden State (1) v Portland (8)
San Antonio (2) v Memphis (7)
Houston (3) v Oklahoma City (6)
Los Angeles Clippers (4) v Utah (5)

(The Sports Xchange) - The city of St. Louis is suing the NFL over the Rams' relocation to Los Angeles 15 months ago.
The 52-page lawsuit was filed Wednesday in St. Louis Circuit Court by the city, county and the Regional Convention and Sports Complex Authority. The suit also names the NFL's 32 teams as defendants and seeks unspecified damages and restitution.
"The Rams, the NFL, through its member teams, and the owners have violated the obligations and standards governing team relocations" because the Rams failed to meet league relocation rules, the suit that was obtained by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch claims.
The lawsuit claims St. Louis has lost an estimated $1.85 million to $3.5 million a year in amusement and ticket tax revenue with the departure of the Rams, as well as about $7.5 million in property taxes and "millions" in earning taxes, according to the Post-Dispatch.
--
The Rams exercised the fifth-year option on Pro Bowl defensive tackle Aaron Donald, the team announced.
The option will be worth $6.892 million for the 2018 season, guaranteed for injury only. Donald, 25, is set to make $1.8 million in his fourth season.
Donald, the No. 13 overall pick in 2014, was named to the Pro Bowl in his first three NFL seasons and made 28 career sacks over 48 games. In 2016, the 6-foot-1, 285-pounder recorded 47 tackles, eight sacks and two forced fumbles.
--
North Carolina quarterback Mitch Trubisky and Texas A&M defensive end Myles Garrett are still in play for the Cleveland Browns with the No. 1 overall pick.
According to ESPN, the Browns are considering the two underclassmen with the top pick in the draft.
NFLDraftScout.com projects Garrett as the No. 1 player available and expects the Browns to select the freakishly athletic pass rusher.
Trubisky has only 13 career starts. The last quarterback drafted early in the first round with such limited college experience was Mark Sanchez, the fifth pick in the 2009 draft after one year as Southern Cal's starter.
--
The start of the regular season is still five months away but the calendar -- or recent history -- did not serve as a deterrent for wide receiver Jarvis Landry, who boldly declared that his Miami Dolphins will sweep the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots.
Landry made the strong statement over the weekend and followed up his comments in an interview with Peter King of Sports Illustrated's TheMMQB.com.
"If you're a competitor, that's the way you should feel, and I don't mind saying it," the 24-year-old Landry said.
DORTMUND, Germany Borussia Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel said his team felt ignored by UEFA after being made to play AS Monaco in the Champions League on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after an attack on their bus.
The quarter-final first leg in Dortmund was postponed on Tuesday after three explosions went off near the German team's bus as it made its way to the stadium, injuring Spanish defender Marc Bartra.
The match was immediately rescheduled for Wednesday and Monaco ran out 3-2 winners in what turned out to be a pulsating game.
UEFA, European soccer's governing body, said it had made the decision after consulting both teams.
"We weren't asked at any point. We were told by text message that the decision had been made in Switzerland (where UEFA are based)," Tuchel told reporters. "When they told us 'you're up tomorrow', we felt completely ignored.
"They treated it as if a beer can had been thrown at the bus.
"We would have liked more time to take stock," he added. "This gives you the feeling of impotence, that we have to keep functioning and nothing else matters.
"I encouraged everyone to take the game seriously but football is not the most important thing in the world."
Tuchel said each player had been affected differently.
"Everyone has the right to deal with it in his own way," he said. "We want to help every player to overcome his inner conflict. It was a bad experience."
Dortmund midfielder Nuri Sahin, who came on as a second-half substitute, said the incident had put soccer into perspective.
"We love football, we suffer with football and I know we earn a lot of money, and we have a privileged life, but we are human beings and there is so much more than football in this world...and last night we felt it," he said.
"I don't know if the people can understand this but, until I was on the pitch in the second half, I didn't think about football," he said.
"I get goosebumps...when we were in the bus last night, I can't forget the faces."
AS Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim said the match had been overshadowed by Tuesday's events.
"It won't be the result that will be remembered, it will be what happened yesterday, which was not a football situation," said the Portuguese.
"Of course, the preparation was not the same. We prepared twice for the same match and today's preparation was more difficult. Yesterday, the players phoned their families, their friends and their concentration levels were not so high."

DORTMUND, Germany Teenager Kylian Mbappe scored twice to give AS Monaco a 3-2 win at Borussia Dortmund on Wednesday in a Champions League quarter-final first-leg match that was postponed following an attack on the home team's bus.
Mbappe gave Monaco a 19th-minute lead shortly after Fabinho had missed a penalty for the visitors, and they went further ahead when Dortmund defender Sven Bender headed into his own net.
Ousmane Dembele pulled one back for Dortmund in the 57th minute but another defensive mistake allowed Mbappe to break away and grab a third goal for the Ligue 1 side. Shinji Kagawa gave the German side hope with a neat finish six minutes from time.
Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel said the game should not have gone ahead so soon after Tuesday's attack in which three explosions went off as the Dortmund team bus traveled to the stadium, injuring their Spanish defender Marc Bartra.
"We would have wanted more time, it would have been important to help us deal with the situation," he told reporters.
"I encouraged everyone to take the game seriously but football is not the most important thing in the world."
Monaco, who beat Manchester City on away goals after a 6-6 aggregate draw in the last 16, should have gone ahead in the 18th minute after Mbappe won a penalty but Fabinho pulled his spot-kick wide of the post.
One minute later Bernardo Silva burst out of the Monaco half and flicked a clever pass to Thomas Lemar whose low ball across the face of goal bounced off Mbappe's knee and into the net.
Monaco went further ahead in the 35th minute when Andrea Raggi sent an inswinging cross towards Radamel Falcao and, although Bender got to it first, he only succeeded in heading it past Roman Buerki and into the net.
Thomas Tuchel's double substitution at halftime galvanized Dortmund who went out on the attack and deservedly pulled one back in the 57th minute.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang cleverly flicked Raphael Guerreiro's cross into the path of Kagawa and the Japanese laid the ball into Ousmane Dembele's path for the 19-year-old to tap into an open goal.
It was the first time two teenagers had scored in a Champions League knockout tie.
Falcao missed an open goal for Monaco before Mbappe, 18, intercepted a poor Lukasz Piszczek pass, ran on and calmly fired his shot past Buerki.
The drama continued as Kagawa grabbed another goal for Dortmund and Aubameyang headed over the bar in stoppage time from six meters.

Matt Kuchar will try to build off his strong finish at the U.S. Masters when he tees off in the first round of the RBC Heritage in South Carolina on Thursday among a field featuring several recent PGA Tour winners.
The American world number 17, who had a hole-in-one en route to a five-under-par 67 that matched the lowest final round score at Augusta National where he finished in a tie for fourth, has heated up since a mostly slow start to the season
Kuchar has only two top-10 finishes on the PGA Tour in 11 events this season but knows how to navigate Harbour Town where he is a previous winner and also boasts a fifth-place finish and tie for ninth among his previous starts.
Kuchar, who at Hilton Head Island in 2014, will be joined by defending champion Branden Grace of South Africa, former winner Brandt Snedeker and England's Tyrrell Hatton, who at world number 15 will be the highest ranked player in the field.
Grace, who overcame a three-shot deficit on the final day with a five-under-par 66 to grab his first PGA Tour victory, is looking to become the tournament's first back-to-back champion since Boo Weekley accomplished the feat in 2008.
The field will also feature four of the past six PGA Tour winners in Adam Hadwin (Valspar Championship), Marc Leishman (Arnold Palmer Invitational), D.A. Points (Puerto Rico Open) and Russell Henley (Shell Houston Open).
Charley Hoffman, who was tied for the 36-hole lead at the Masters before falling hard to a share of 22nd place, will be eager to get back to a course where he has made six consecutive cuts and three top-15 finishes.
Former U.S. Open winner Jim Furyk, who missed last year's RBC Heritage after undergoing wrist surgery, returns for the first time since winning here in 2015.
Furyk snapped a nearly five-year PGA Tour victory drought when he beat Kevin Kisner in a playoff in 2015 which sparked a strong run of form that sent the American to world number three later that year.
"I have the same mentality I always do coming in here. It will be more a matter of patience," world number 62 Furyk told reporters. "I feel that this is the place in my career when I have been patient, when I have been playing well. I know I can win this golf tournament."


KARLSRUHE/DUESSELDORF, Germany German authorities arrested a suspected Islamist on Wednesday in connection with what Chancellor Angela Merkel called a "despicable" attack on a bus carrying players of one of the country's top soccer teams.
Merkel said she was appalled by Tuesday evening's incident, in which three explosions went off as the Borussia Dortmund bus made its way to a match. Spanish defender Marc Bartra suffered injuries to his arm and wrist.
The attack forced a 24-hour postponement of the team's high-profile clash with AS Monaco, which turned out to be a pulsating encounter that the visitors won 3-2.
"I encouraged everyone to take the game seriously but football is not the most important thing in the world," Borussia Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel said after the game.
Police stepped up security for the rescheduled match and for a second Champions League quarter-final on Wednesday between Bayern Munich and Real Madrid.
An exit from the Dortmund stadium was briefly closed as police examined suspicious packages, but quickly re-opened.
Ralf Jaeger, interior minister in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia which includes Dortmund, said the investigation was looking "in all directions", and it was unclear if one or several attackers were involved.
A spokeswoman for the Federal Prosecutor's Office, which handles probes into suspected terrorism, said the explosive devices had contained strips of metal.
Spokeswoman Frauke Koehler said investigators had found three letters near the scene, all with the same content suggesting a possible Islamist motive.
She said the letters referred to the use of Tornado reconnaissance planes in Syria, which Germany has deployed as part of the military campaign against Islamic State, and also called for the closure of the U.S. military base at Ramstein in western Germany.
Investigators had identified two suspects from the "Islamist scene", searched their apartments and detained one man, she said.

DEFENDER INJURED
The blasts smashed windows on the bus carrying the players to the stadium. Bartra was operated on for a broken bone in his right wrist and shrapnel in his arm, a team spokesman said.
"We all agree that we are dealing with a despicable act," Merkel said at a business event in the western town of Allendorf.
"We were all appalled yesterday when we heard about the attack on the bus with the players of BVB in Dortmund," she added, praising Dortmund fans for offering accommodation to AS Monaco fans after the postponement.
Bartra, 26, joined Dortmund for 8 million euros ($8.5 million) last year from Barcelona. He has made 12 appearances for the Spanish national team.
The blasts revived memories of Islamist militant attacks in Paris in November 2015 whose targets included a stadium where France were playing Germany in a soccer friendly.
Security is among the issues at the heart of Germany's parliamentary election on Sept. 24, a tight battle in which  Merkel is running for a fourth term. In December, a Tunisian man killed 12 people when he plowed a truck through a Berlin Christmas market.

DORTMUND, Germany They lost the game, but realized there is more to life than soccer.
Just a day after an explosives attack on their team bus, Borussia Dortmund's frustration at losing 2-3 to AS Monaco in their postponed Champions League clash was eclipsed by their players' relief at being alive.
"I don't know if the people can understand this but, until I was on the pitch in the second half, I didn't think about football," Dortmund player Nuri Sahin said after Wednesday's match.
"Last night, I didn't realize what happened until my wife and son were waiting in front of the door and there I felt how lucky we were," he recalled. "I get goosebumps."
Earlier, German authorities arrested a suspected Islamist in connection with what Chancellor Angela Merkel called the "despicable" attack on the bus, in which three explosions went off as the Dortmund players made their way to the stadium.
"When we were in the bus last night, I can't forget the faces," said Sahin, speaking English to the Viasat Football broadcasting network. "I will never forget these faces."
Spanish defender Marc Bartra, injured in the attack, said he was "doing much better" after surgery on his wrist. His team mates wore shirts bearing his picture during their warm-up for the match, which turned out to be a pulsating encounter.
Police, who banned backpacks from the Dortmund stadium, stepped up security for the rescheduled match and for a second Champions League quarter-final between Bayern Munich and Real Madrid.
An exit from the Dortmund stadium was briefly closed as police examined suspicious packages, but quickly re-opened.
Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel said his team would have liked more time to take stock after the attack and felt ignored by the soccer authorities after being made to play less than 24 hours later.
"I encouraged everyone to take the game seriously but football is not the most important thing in the world," he said.
Merkel, who takes a keen interest in the fortunes of Germany's national soccer team, earlier praised Dortmund fans for taking in AS Monaco supporters overnight so they could stay on for the postponed match.
Some fans of AS Monaco, which neighbors the southern French city of Nice where 86 people were killed in an Islamist attack last summer, were more relaxed than Dortmund supporters.
"In France, we know this," said Monaco supporter Pierre Calmon, 50, from Toulouse, who was attending the match with his son, 16-year-old Thomas. "We are pleased to spend another day in Germany."


The city of St. Louis and other regional groups on Wednesday filed a lawsuit against the National Football League and all its teams and owners, claiming the league violated its relocation guidelines when it allowed the Rams to leave the Midwest city.
The city, St. Louis County and the St. Louis Regional Convention and Sports Complex Authority, in a lawsuit filed in Circuit Court of St. Louis City, is seeking damages totaling more than $1 billion for the move by the Rams to Los Angeles from Missouri last year.
NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said there was "no legitimate basis" for the lawsuit.
"While we understand the disappointment of the St. Louis fans and the community, we worked diligently with local and state officials in a process that was honest and fair at all times," he said in an email.
Rams spokesman Artis Twyman said the team would not comment on pending litigation.
Since the Rams move, the San Diego Chargers announced their relocation to the Los Angeles market for the coming season. The Chargers and Rams will share a new stadium scheduled to open in 2019. In March, the owners also approved the eventual Oakland Raiders' move to Las Vegas.
Charges in the St. Louis lawsuit include breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraudulent misrepresentation and business interference.
The city and other plaintiffs in a statement claim the NFL, the most popular U.S. sports league, failed to follow its own guidelines for franchise relocation even as it induced the city to spend "considerable time and money to generate a compelling new stadium development."
The plaintiffs said they made investments in the team's home stadium based on the NFL's policy requiring teams to work in good faith to remain in their home community, but team officials were aiming to move long before they made such plans public, the lawsuit said.
"The Rams never intended to engage in good faith negotiations with St. Louis," the lawsuit said.
In one instance, the plaintiffs cited a December 2016 interview with Rams former head coach Jeff Fisher, who said when he was hired in January 2012 he was told of plans to move to Los Angeles. Fisher was fired in December.
The plaintiffs said the loss of the Rams hurt the city and region and benefited the league and its owners, who received a $550 million relocation fee, the lawsuit said. Meanwhile, the value of the Rams increased by nearly $700 million.
Among other damages cited by the plaintiffs in the lawsuit were city and county bond obligations totaling $360 million, the loss of more than $100 million in net proceeds, $30 million for the installation of a new playing surface and other renovations, the loss of state revenue of more than $15 million and about $7.5 million in lost property taxes.
The city said it also contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to attract and retain an NFL team over the past 20 years, the lawsuit said. The sports complex authority spent more than $17 million during efforts to build a new stadium for the Rams.

LONDON Wayde van Niekerk's hopes of a 200/400 meters double at this year's world championships in London were given a boost when organizers announced on Wednesday that they had changed the program to avoid the two events clashing.
South African Van Niekerk, who electrified last year's Rio Olympics by smashing the 400 meters world record with a time of 43.03 seconds in the final, had set his sights on a double gold in London.
The 24-year-old's hopes, however, looked like being scuppered by the schedule, which originally put the 400 final on Aug. 8, just hours after the first round of the shorter sprint.
The IAAF, world athletics' governing body, has sought to avoid the clash by moving the first round of the 200m to Aug. 7 to "better allow for a 200m/400m doubling opportunity".
It said in a statement that it had responded to requests from athletics federations, including South Africa's.
“I am also delighted that the Council today approved the 200m and 400m double. These double headers create great excitement among both athletes and fans,” IAAF President Sebastian Coe said.
The world championships run from Aug. 4-13.

Manchester United captain Wayne Rooney will miss their Europa League quarter-final first leg against Anderlecht due to an ankle injury, manager Jose Mourinho said on Wednesday.
The England forward, who has sat out United's last two matches, did not travel to Brussels for the game on Thursday.
"He is not happy with his condition," Mourinho told reporters.
"He has bad feelings with his ankle and he’s not ready to play. Let’s see for the weekend, let’s see for next week. We don’t have many players and need everyone to try to be available."
United right back Antonio Valencia should be fit to return against the Belgian team after missing the last two games and    Mourinho said his side would have to be at their best against dangerous opponents.
"They are a good team and have a certain way of playing, adapted to the qualities of their players," he said.
"They play well, press well and have talented players. I think we have to play at our best level.
"When a team arrives at this stage of the competition, everyone feels it’s possible (to win it). The motivation is high for everyone."
United are fifth in the Premier League table, one place outside the Champions League qualification spots, ahead of their match against leaders Chelsea at Old Trafford on Sunday.
"We still have two open doors and my feeling is that we are really going to fight in both competitions," Mourinho said.
"Honestly, I have a special feeling with the Europa League, it’s a competition we can win."

BERLIN German police said they re-opened an exit from the Dortmund soccer stadium, venue for Wednesday's Champions League clash between Borussia Dortmund and AS Monaco, after specialists examined suspicious objects found there.
"The objects were examined. The south-east entrance/exit can be used," Dortmund police said in a tweet.
